ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u1	Minister, in June of this year I asked you a question about the extension of the Bangladesh agreement on the safety of workers in the clothing industry. At that time it did not look so good, but a few days before the deadline an agreement was reached between the trade unions and the clothing brands. That's good news. The new agreement contains the elements contained in the original agreement, such as the obligation for brands to pay the suppliers sufficiently to ensure safety in the factories, the ban on doing business with factories refusing to improve safety, an independent control mechanism and legal enforceability. From now on, the agreement will also be applicable to other producer countries, such as Morocco, Egypt and Pakistan. At the moment eleven Belgian companies have signed the Bangladesh agreement, but there are still Belgian clothing companies buying clothing and not signing the agreement. How will they be encouraged to sign the agreement? Has there been any progress here? Now that the agreement can be applied outside Bangladesh, will the government actively encourage companies operating in other countries, such as Morocco, Pakistan and Egypt, to join the agreement? In your previous reply, you stated that a new national action plan for businesses and human rights is being worked on. How's that going?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u2	Mrs Reynaert, the new agreement, in full the international agreement on health and safety in the textile and clothing industries, entered into force on 1 September 2021. The new agreement provides for an extension of the obligations of the first agreement of 2013. The number of signatories to the new version of the agreement is still much lower, namely 200 in 2013 compared to 91 now. In Belgium, JBC and Tex Alliance have already signed the agreement. Apart from information and promotion, my ability to encourage Belgian companies to sign is limited. This is an agreement between the social partners for which the levers of government are limited. Nevertheless, Belgium has repeatedly supported the objectives pursued by such agreements, in particular through various awareness-raising actions in the Belgian textile sector, such as the round table organised by the National Contact Point for the OECD Guidelines in 2019. It is really important to inform and raise awareness of Belgian companies, including the extension of the agreement to other countries. More generally, it is important to strengthen the universal application of these principles and the normative role of the ILO. Promoting safety at work and ensuring the protection of all workers is part of the 2030 Agenda's objective 8 on decent work. As part of Belgium's mandate on the ILO board of directors, I will continue to work for the inclusion of safety and health at work as a fundamental principle and right. The development of the second National Action Plan is intended to be an inclusive and participatory process. The Working Group on Social Responsibility of the Interdepartmental Commission for Sustainable Development has drawn up a roadmap specifying the framework and the process, which will soon be validated by the intrafederal consultation platform Multilateral Coordination (COORMULTI).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u3	Minister, the next round of negotiations on the UN Business and Human Rights Convention will take place from 26 to 29 October. We adopted a resolution on this in Parliament in January 2021 in which we advocate that the European Union should adopt a much more active stance in the negotiations and that Belgium should take steps itself if it does not do so. This would indeed broaden the fundamental principles to include companies and human rights. We will put that back on the table in the government or the coordination bodies and hope that we can count on your support for that, so that Belgium will adopt a more proactive attitude in the UN negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u4	Madam President, Minister, a study carried out by HR service provider SD Worx at the end of August shows that in many sectors after the corona crisis, starting wages are lower than in 2019. Although it is not the same in all sectors, this is a rather curious evolution taking into account rising inflation, higher house prices, both for tenants and buyers, and a sharp increase in prices for electricity, gas, water and so on. Moreover, in Flanders there is already a shortage of labour, which should normally lead to an increase in the wage curve, but on the contrary we see that in a sector that is crying out for staff, such as the catering industry, boarding wages are falling. I have the following questions. Have you taken note of the results of that study? Can you confirm this evolution on the basis of the data provided by the RSZ and are there any differences between the regions according to your data? What do you think is the cause of the fall in wages? What do you think is the long-term significance of lower starting wages in relation to the rising price level of many consumer goods, the real estate market and utilities? Finally, will you take measures to reverse the trend?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u5	Madam President, Mr Verreyt, the study by SD Worx shows that in some sectors the wages of newly recruited workers have indeed fallen. The corona crisis has a complex impact on the labour market and the remuneration of the new employees. The study shows, among other things, that employers tend to opt for atypical contracts instead of a fixed contract. We note that, for example, in the hospitality sector, employees with daily contracts and students receive a lower wage. That, of course, brings down the average. I think it is too early to assess whether this is a trend that will continue. Of course, employers cannot award new workers wages less than the minimum wages laid down in sectoral collective agreements. Almost all of these wages are automatically indexed and thus adjusted to the price increases. In the meantime, the social partners have also agreed to increase the guaranteed minimum monthly average income (GGMMI) in line with the government's mediation proposal. From 1 April 2022, the GGMMI shall be increased by EUR 76.28 gross. From 1 April 2024 and 1 April 2026 it will be increased by 35 euros gross each time. We have strongly supported these increases in the GGMMI and will help to raise wages just above the GGMMI. With regard to your question on the RSZ data, I can inform you that the RSZ does not have a reporting system to follow such trends in the short term. Finally, like SD Worx, I would like to stress that the study does not focus on the extralegal benefits. So we do not know whether there is a similar trend there, or whether there is a reverse trend in certain sectors. I believe that the government should have a much clearer picture of the overall wage package. Initiatives will be taken to ensure that the administration and institutions have all the necessary information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. First of all, I regret that we depend on figures and reports from private partners for such evolutions and studies. It is a pity that as a government we cannot take care of this ourselves, because in my opinion we could collect the same amount of data ourselves. So I also support the initiatives you are announcing to get a look at the full wage package in order to make the comparison over longer periods of time for those figures, including for start-up wages. It is, of course, right that the average monthly income should rise or be supported. The most important thing for these workers is what you also refer to: these are often precarious contracts, such as day contracts, which do not offer long-term protection. That is regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u7	Minister, SD Worx has just released the results of an investigation into absenteeism at work. It is based on the wage data of 70,000 employers and almost one million Belgian workers. This shows a large increase in medium-term absenteeism between 2019 and 2021, particularly for young workers. While the trend for short-term absences is declining with 1.8% less absenteeism, the average duration of absences (more than one month and less than one year) explodes with more than 11% in two and a half years. Among young people under 25 years of age, the absence of a medium duration has doubled in 30 months. The trend is the same for other age groups, but to a lesser extent. For workers, the rate is almost double that of employees, with a absenteeism rate of more than 4% compared to 2.5%. These figures are worrying because these absences pose problems for the functioning of the economy, but above all, they raise questions about the well-being at work of those affected by absences. This worries me all the more because they are young workers. Minister, are you aware of this increase in average absenteeism and specifically among young people? With your services, have you ever studied the reasons for this phenomenon? Are you planning specific actions to respond to this worrying trend? How will you take this age element into account in the more comprehensive work on well-being at work to which your Government wishes to pay particular attention, as you explained to us in our discussions on the Employment Conference?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u8	Mrs Cornet, the Employment FPS does not have figures on absenteeism. For short absences of less than one month covering the guaranteed wage, it is the companies themselves that have the numbers or social offices such as SD-Worx or Securex, to name but a few. For incapacity for work - absences from one month to one year - or incapacity - absence of more than one year - INAMI has the official statistics. My administration and I know the figures from these different sources, and they are indeed worrying. Musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) and psychosocial risks (PSRs) are the main causes, 70%, of this absenteeism. These MSTs and SSRs affect all sectors of activity, occupations and age groups. The prevention of occupational risks must take place at all ages and throughout the career. Young workers should therefore not be forgotten, regardless of their status. All participants in the first Annual Employment Conference, held on 7 and 8 September, shared this view. My administration works every day to promote well-being at work and to raise the awareness of actors on the ground, particularly on these particular risks. The Directorate-General for Labour Humanisation (DG HUT) is developing a series of actions: awareness raising, website, campaigns, films, leaflets, brochures, organisation of study days, organisation of training, modernisation of legislation, improvement of social dialogue between the social partners, provision of concrete tools for companies, collection of epidemiological data on working conditions, and I am passing on. More information can be found at www.beswic.be. The aim is to provide companies with the knowledge, tools and strategies to best combat their own occupational risks, improve their working conditions and also have an impact on the well-being of young workers, in particular. Projects and measures to prevent occupational risks are being prepared and I will communicate them very soon. I would like, for example, to invest in better prevention in the workplace and also to present a proposal to help long-term sick people return to work in a manner that is dignified and commensurate with their health situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u9	Thank you, Minister. I understand that a great deal of work is being done by the Humanisation du travail Directorate. This work is under way. In this study, we are told that this trend is already several years old, despite the covid. In view of this, it is of course now that we must rise to power, Minister. I really invite you to go as far as possible and further accelerate the movement. You need to adapt the answers you think you're proposing to the public you're talking about. We're talking about young people who may have special needs and expectations. I heard what was said at this Employment Conference. One realizes that there could be large human losses, but also losses of potentials, talents, for this labour market. I hear you'll come back to the issue of professional risks. We will, I suppose, have an exchange on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u10	Madam President, Minister, in an area where wages are limited to EUR 12.06 per hour and where 90% of jobs are part-time, many domestic workers have to be deprived of rest. They are 40% unable to afford to go on vacation. The situation is even more difficult when the worker is single and has children. They are then only 8% going on vacation each year. Minister, we know that being able to take a vacation is crucial to achieving the right balance between work and private life. In the face of difficult tasks such as domestic help, holidays become even more necessary to preserve health. Yet the undervalorization and under-remuneration of their jobs continues to deprive these employees of their most essential rights. Minister, the crisis has brought to light the essential nature of the work of domestic help. Some initiatives have been taken to improve their working conditions, but further reflection is needed to improve their situation. Have you had the opportunity to exchange views with the federated entities in order to identify possible avenues of reflection for the structural upgrading of the household assistance profession?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u11	Minister, I read two weeks ago that the waiting period to claim a household help from a few weeks to a few months has evolved. The reason for this is that many service checkers see their household help flowing to other jobs, while demand for household help continues to increase, as employees are returning to work more and more often outside the home. Some service checkers offer perks, such as family days in Plopsaland, but the question is whether this is enough to get more people to choose a job as domestic help. These are low-wage jobs in harsh working conditions. The corona crisis has made this even worse, because domestic helpers often had to work in difficult conditions or without protection. They were not required to be temporarily unemployed and lost part of their end-of-year bonus. That's what got them to look up other places. Household helpers are essential. They make sure people can go to work. If they were not there, more people would stay home or work part-time. During the corona crisis, you indicated that you would work with the Regions to see what could be improved on the working conditions and conditions of domestic helpers. A number of measures have already been taken. Is the consultation continuing? In which direction is there any further thought? What concrete improvements can household help be expected from?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u12	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your questions. I would also like to thank you for drawing attention to the difficult conditions in which domestic workers have to work. As you know, I had the opportunity, a few months ago, to meet personally with a delegation of women workers in the securities sector. In particular, they had told me about their difficult working conditions, particularly in the context of the pandemic. I also have a vivid memory of it. In order to make certain bottlenecks more attractive, working conditions will need to be improved. I will distinguish between working conditions and conditions of remuneration. For the former, I encourage the social partners to continue to improve in the context of discussions in the Joint Committee. Many employers have very good practices. It is in the common interest to generalize them. With regard to the conditions of remuneration, the increase in the minimum wage - to which we as socialists hold a great deal - is now on the right track, and I expect it to have a significant impact on the wages of domestic workers. A structural upgrading of the profession will indeed depend on the Länder. The social partners are of course involved. I'm available within the limits of federal jurisdiction. On the timetable for regional consultation, I cannot give you any details today, as the sectoral negotiations have just begun. You will understand that I will not interfere in the debate at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u13	Minister, thank you. As you said, the crisis has brought to the fore the low recognition of feminized occupations. It also revealed the risk and persistence of the care sector's trades, of which domestic workers are part. I think it is important to build on this recognition to support industry development demands and management standards. As you said, we have managed to get the minimum wage increase, and we must be able to stress that. I hope that this will have a positive impact on the re-evaluation of this painful profession of domestic helpers, because I think they deserve it well for having been in front of the scene throughout the pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u14	Minister, the sectoral negotiations started on 17 September and the increase in the minimum wage is an important achievement. These are not all bad examples, and I hope that the good examples from the sector will be generalised. I would like to point out that the trade unions had already warned against this drain in the previous sectoral negotiations, when some employers refused to increase it by 1.1 %. It is seen that it is mainly the biggest players who walk away, such as TRIXXO, that the former Ethias Arena will sponsor in Hasselt and at the same time ask Flanders for more subsidies to increase wages and improve working conditions. Such practices must be stopped. Household helpers deserve respect and appreciation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u15	Minister, the pandemic has shown that productivity is measured not in terms of time spent in the office but in terms of performance. In this context, the debate on the collective reduction of working time has re-emerged in many European countries, notably Spain and Germany, which are currently conducting various pilot projects of the four-day week. Experience, when tempted, shows that the productivity and well-being of workers gain considerably. In Japan, faced with numerous burn-out and suicide cases, Microsoft has set up a three-day weekend for its employees. The happiness of employees has increased considerably as a result of this change: at the end of the experimental period, 92% of them say they prefer the four-day week, and their productivity has increased by 40%. The evidence is that well-being and performance at work are not incompatible. The application of shorter full-time standard working hours for men and women can also become an additional means in the fight for equality, by acting against discrimination against women in the labour market, and by promoting the investment of fathers in the family sphere. Minister, has your office ever had the opportunity to look at the path of collective reduction in working time (CWTC) - without loss of pay and with compensatory hiring - to increase the employment rate and promote recovery? Could pilot experiments be envisaged and carried out in the near future with the support of your Government?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u16	Dear colleague, recent media experiences are well known: Iceland, New Zealand, Scotland, Northern Ireland, Gothenburg and even Microsoft in Japan. In Germany, the four-day week is currently an important demand in the sectoral negotiations initiated by one of the most important trade unions, IG Metall. In Austria and the Netherlands, trade unions also put the reduction in working time on the sectoral negotiating table. In Belgium, the conventional path of a collective reduction in working time and/or the week of four days has existed since the 2000s. Since 2004, the government has also introduced a system of incentives whereby the employer benefits from a group-target reduction of social security from 400 to 1,000 euros over a defined number of quarters. In a previous answer to a question on Icelandic experiences, we stressed that with such a collective reduction in working time, it was very important to examine the changes to be made in the organisation of work in order to ensure a good balance between an expected increase in productivity and the workload of workers. Moreover, it is of course important to ensure that these systems do not simultaneously lead to greater flexibility adapted to the demands of employers - fewer hours but with more uncertain schedules - which would make it indirectly more difficult to reconcile work and family life. An evaluation of the system is under way. Our goal is to make the system more attractive, for example by maintaining the award of the ONSS target-group reduction. Another possibility would be to increase the amount of reductions in the case of jobs in short supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u17	Mr Minister, it is true that the objective is, on the one hand, to allow workers to better reconcile their private lives with their working lives and, on the other hand, to better distribute available employment while reducing unemployment. This collective reduction in working time will secure the financing of public services and of our social security by increasing the number of contributors, thus reducing the volume of unemployment benefits. You mentioned several avenues that could be explored as well as the fact that an evaluation of the system is under way. I will pay attention to this and ask you again about it if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u18	Minister, there is the ruling of the court in the Netherlands and there is also the resolution of the European Parliament. Both go in the same direction. For the European Parliament, platform workers are employees, unless proven otherwise. In my opinion, the Dutch judge also gives a good argument as to why an app can exercise authority and is an employer. I would like to ask your opinion and an update on the progress of the platforms in Belgium. We see that Deliveroo keeps his own rules. The platform has recently established a Rider Forum: a consultative body in which couriers will be elected to meet every three months. They will consult with the Executive Board of Deliveroo and discuss a number of matters with them. Active couriers can vote and directly raise the problems there. I do wonder to what extent they will dare to open their mouths, knowing that it is enough for them to talk to someone from the union on the street or to appear in the press or on social media to be removed from the app for 14 days. My question to you is: what do you think of this system? It is a kind of parallel circuit, regardless of what is laid down in the law on social elections and social consultation bodies. Where are we going when tomorrow everyone will invent their own social dialogue system? What initiatives will you take to ensure that this is done in some way in accordance with the rules in force?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u19	Minister, we have already had an opportunity to discuss the problem of these workers, who are actually under-workers. You regularly cross them on your way to the city. It is quite shocking to see workers still in such distressing conditions in one of the richest countries in the world. I know that this is not only the case in Belgium, but it really affects me. What are you going to do to fight the phenomenon of false independents? Will you finally adapt the legislation, as mentioned in the government agreement? You also sought the advice of the National Labour Council (NCT) at the time. I don't think we've received anything yet, unless you hear from me. We're interested. It is also known from feedback that there are large differences in the NTC between the employer's position and the position of the unions. How are you going to encourage rapprochement and move forward? Last week, we had the opportunity to discuss a bill from one of my colleagues in your party. Are you concerned about this topic? We have also received a lot of feedback from the CSC Nited Freelancers, which provides many avenues for moving forward on this issue. I think one of the ways is to reverse the current logic and to ensure that, by default, these workers are recognised as employees, with exceptions - not the other way round, as is currently the case. It also points out that the collaborative economy should be effectively abolished or even revised in order to avoid the absence of social protection. What can you tell us about these points? They also proposed to review the Welfare at Work Act. Thank you for giving us your feedback on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u20	Mr Vanden Burre asked to be excused, so his question would be moot. I give the floor to Mrs Thémont.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u21	Minister, both in government and in Parliament, discussions are taking place on improving the working conditions of workers working in the platform economy. In order to hear the views of the various players in this sector, your government has recently launched a consultation forum. Whether they are deliverers, drivers, traders or platform managers, all will have the opportunity to express their needs. I would also like to welcome this initiative, which will certainly provide a good basis for reflection on a better framework for the platform economy. However, we know that many workers active in the platform economy come from underprivileged backgrounds, and may have difficulty accessing this online consultation. How do you plan to solicit the views of workers facing the digital divide? Similarly, how do you plan to consult particularly invisible vulnerable groups, such as the undocumented?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u22	I read with interest the judgment of the Amsterdam court which ruled that Uber drivers should be regarded as employees. The court ruled that there was a modern employer's authority. She concluded that the U.S. company considers the employees to be self-employed only on paper. There is also the European Parliament's report on fair working conditions, rights and social protection for platform workers, new forms of employment linked to digital development. It notes that the current EU framework is not satisfactory and that EU legal instruments are often not applied to platform workers because they are misclassified. The report also regrets that regulation does not take sufficient account of the new realities of the world of work. Several slopes are being put forward to resolve these shortcomings. The solution to the problem of the status of platform workers is a priority. In this respect, various slopes will be explored, which the European Parliament points out. The fifth point of the resolution, concerning the proposal for a rebuttable presumption of a working relationship in the case of platform workers, is, of course, a step forward which we can be delighted to see in the improvement of their statutes provided for in the government agreement. As you also know, the social partners, the National Labour Council, the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs and the General Management Committee for the Status of Self-employed were consulted in April 2021 on both the assessment of legislation on the nature of the employment relationship and on the issue of platform workers. Their opinions are expected this month. Work is currently under way to establish a consultation platform to accompany the review of legislation. Through the platform, we want to collect opinions and testimonies from stakeholders in the platform economy. The website was posted on Tuesday, 28 September. I invite you to spread the address platformwork.be. However, you will understand that it is difficult for me to give elements, as the consultation has just begun, that the evaluation is still under way and that the opinions of the social partners are expected. Other avenues and proposals, including those to which you refer, will be examined as part of the overall evaluation of the legislation on the nature of the employment relationship. We hope to be able to announce the government initiative early next year. Finally, with regard to the creation of an advisory body by Deliveroo, I am puzzled and share your fears and questions. What will be the facilities and protections of the couriers who will have to express themselves? What will be the guarantees of representativeness? Can we really talk about real social dialogue without these necessary corollaries? In Belgium, social consultation exists and operates with the provisions that govern it. So it's not up to Deliveroo to impose his own rules. You will have understood, our vigilance, and mine in particular, will be in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u23	Minister, I am pleased that you are equally determined about the latter. It is true that it is about protecting the representatives who have to defend it there for their colleagues. On Friday in Aalst I had a conversation with the trade unions with the bicycle couriers of Deliveroo and Uber. The stories were hallucinating again. People rent an electric bike at 75 euros per hour to do their rides and their first 15 to 20 orders are just to pay for that bike. After that it is quite a fight to get short journeys, because they are paid per order and not per hour and earn 3 to 4 euros net per hour. The ruling of the labour court in Amsterdam, as well as the European initiative, have been welcomed because it clearly states that the couriers are employees, in terms of exploitation and false self-employment. In this sense, I look forward to the advice of the social partners. In any case, you will find me a supporter. I will continue to convey platformwork.be to all those involved so that they can make their voices heard clearly there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hope that we will have a government proposal to change the law because there is a lot of debate and not a lot of change on the ground. You have the tools and information to decide and move forward with a concrete proposal, of course always in a discussion with the social partners. We will continue to follow this issue closely. I would like to take this opportunity to express our solidarity with the action to be taken before the European Parliament on Thursday, organised by the trade unions of these workers who deserve more than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answers. Unlike my colleague, I think you're trying to get change for these platform economy workers. You are aware that there is a concern within the framework of the employment relationship. There is an improvement since you have put this platform in place. I invite everyone to put it on social media so that everyone can give their testimony and their opinion. The outcome of this forum will help us to better define the concepts related to controversial platforms, such as the notions of employer, self-employed and employee, which have a significant impact on the rights of those involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u26	Minister, the Ecolo-Groen Group tabled a bill in March to freeze the degression of unemployment benefits during maternity leave for unemployed workers. You indicated that you were also working on a draft royal decree amending the unemployment regulations, in order to freeze the degression of benefits during maternity leave. You had indicated in committee that it had become clear that the objective of the proposed law could not be fully achieved only by amending the Royal Decree, but that an amendment to the INAMI regulation should also be considered. Minister Vandenbroucke was positive about this proposed reform. He was due to present his draft text to the INAMI Management Committee last June. Unemployed women who have a child are currently discriminated against, as degression applies when they are no longer on the labour market during their maternity leave. It should be brought to an end as soon as possible. That is why, Minister, I would like to take stock with you of this matter. Can you tell me, what is the return of the INAMI Management Committee? What about the retroactivity of the measure for which you were awaiting advice from ONEM and INAMI? What's your status in the advancement of this royal decree? When do you think you can succeed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u27	Mrs Cornet, the first of your questions falls within the competence of my colleague Vandenbroucke. I regret not being able to answer that question. As regards the retroactivity of the measure, due to the complexity of its implementation by the competent institutions and the legal difficulties it entails, it is unfortunately not possible to foresee it. As regards the status of the file, a draft royal decree was drafted and was the subject of an opinion of the Management Committee of the ONEM. This project is currently being discussed within the government. I hope that the measure will enter into force no later than 1 January 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u28	Minister, it is very exciting to hear that you are implementing this bill. I hear the government is debating it. Since I am the author of this proposal, you know that the Ecolo-Groen Group fully supports this approach. I hope that everyone will understand and accept the idea that, during maternity leave, women are protected and out of the labour market. It is therefore clear that measures to promote access to the labour market cannot be applied to women during their maternity leave. I encourage you to continue the useful negotiations and implementation. Thank you already. I hope that we will have the pleasure of discussing it again in early January with excellent news.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u29	Mrs Cornet, thank you for your enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u30	Minister, the management of the media group Roularta announced on 18 August the dismissal of 19 of the 32 employees of Telepro magazine, based in Dison. With the exception of writing, all services are moved to Roulers, where the headquarters of Roularta is located. The announcement was of extreme brutality for the workers. The information fell at 11:00 a.m. and the mailboxes were deactivated at 11:04 a.m. This decision has moved in the Verviet region, since Telepro was established in 1954. This is the second most read weekly television in French-speaking Belgium, with a circulation of 115 000 copies, half of which are for subscribers. At the end of March Roularta became the sole owner of the title after Bayard Presse's shares were bought. Trade union representatives have many questions about procedural compliance, considering that they have to do with collective redundancies, which management seems to be challenging. At the very least, the application of Convention 32a, which governs, in particular, redundancies resulting from economic restructuring in the context of a merger, may be questioned. Unions report that certain rules, such as prior information, posting or the requirement to prove that the necessary was done in order to try to reclassify staff, have not been respected. This situation leads me to ask you the following questions. Has the restructuring under way at Telepro been notified to your administration? What information do you have? Does the decision make seem to you to be in accordance with the regulations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u31	Thank you, Member, for your question. The company Roularta Media Group has not sent any communication to my services of the SPF Emploi. No case of collective dismissal has been filed and no notification of the planned closure of a division of the undertaking has been communicated. The Renault law procedure has thus not yet been initiated. As you know, the dossier is being followed up in Joint Committee 200. A conciliation office was initially planned, but it is my responsibility that the social consultation in the company, within the framework of this announcement, has in the meantime restarted, and that meetings should be scheduled in the next few days. Of course, I remain attentive to this matter, as well as to my services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u32	Minister, thank you for this answer and I will of course remain attentive to the situation of this company and its workers. You may know that, but my municipality is one of the poorest in Wallonia and so it is always with some apprehension as to the additional social consequences for the city and its CPAS that we take this kind of announcement. This is all the more true when we put this news in parallel with the results presented by Roularta two months ago. The Group recorded consolidated sales of EUR 141.7 million in the first half of 2021, an increase of 17.5% over last year. The net profit is 8 million over the same period. In the face of such figures, apprehension quickly leaves room for incomprehension.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u33	Minister, about a month ago, in the run-up to the first employment conference, ACV President Marc Leemans gave an interview in which he suggested that social contributions be paid on student jobs, flexi jobs and meal cheques. It will not surprise you, my group, to find the increase in labour costs not really the best recipe to generate more employment in our country. If those jobs are made a little more expensive, they risk disappearing. At the same time, the competitiveness of our economy compared with our neighbouring countries may also be compromised, with all the consequences that this will have. In addition, our labour market is also very tight. In our opinion, therefore, work should be made easier and more attractive, rather than more expensive. Moreover, these jobs, flexi jobs and student jobs meet a strong demand on the labour market for flexibility that is easy to deploy. The same is true in the case of meal cheques, which are at present an attractive tool for employers to eat the staff's wage package a little more without the wage costs getting out of control. Minister, how do you appreciate Mr Leemans' statement? Do you support his proposal to tax extra flexi jobs, student jobs and meal cheques? Do you or don't you have plans like that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u34	Mr Anseuw, as Minister for Employment, it is not for me to comment on all the statements made by the social partners. This declaration has the merit of opening the debate. As you know, the coalition agreement includes the following passage: "The different forms of contract in our labour market are evaluated. In doing so, both their place within the socio-economic fabric and their impact on income and job security are considered." This exercise will therefore be carried out during this term of office.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Since your answer is rather brief, please invite me to read between the lines. You say that it is not for you to make statements about statements made by the social partners, but I am not so convinced of that. You are a competent minister, so I think it is relevant to know your opinion and the government's opinion on this. From your answer I can only conclude that everything is negotiable for you, so apparently also the increase in taxes on flexi-jobs, student jobs and meal cheques, even though they offer a flexibility that is impossible in regular employment in our country. This debate cannot be separated from reforming our labour market policies. That kind of work and statute really meets pressing questions from our labour market. Your answer was very brief, but it was clear. As far as you are concerned, additional taxes on labour can be discussed. For the N-VA, they're not at all. At the same time, you do not link this to the reform of labour market policies, with all the consequences that this will have. So I'm holding on to my heart a little bit. I'm gonna follow up on this, and I'm gonna go deeper. I am not entirely satisfied with this brief answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u36	Madam Chair, Minister, this is a problem that has already been raised in our committee. The health crisis has highlighted the difficulties and precariousness of cultural workers. We often hear that they have felt the great forgotten of the crisis. I almost want to say that they've been forgotten about this crisis for a long time. Even now, they are not at all reassured; just about the fact that they were told that they were not essential. Today we can see how much this is for society as a whole. They have mobilized and, thanks to this, you, together with the new government, have been able to put back on the table this question of the reform of the statute, which is really necessary; and this, in consultation with the actors on the ground. For a few months now, with your colleagues from Clarinval and Vandenbroucke, you have been working on this reform. You've arranged consultations. Before summer, you came with a first reform proposal. This is really not unanimous among the different actors on the ground that you have met. The criticisms are still pretty harsh, I think. Minister, are you going, as they ask, to take you back to the discussion table to listen to their requests? We would like to hear your views on this. What is the agenda you are planning for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u37	Madam Chair, as you pointed out, before the summer break, the Work in the Arts Working Group, supported by the Participatory Platform, made a series of concrete proposals to improve the status of workers in the cultural sector. These proposals, for the sake of transparency and to feed into the debate, have been published; and each of them has been able to learn about them, which has in fact provoked a series of positive, negative reactions, with requests for clarification or additions. Together with my colleagues, Ministers Vandenbroucke and Clarinval, we have also forwarded these proposals to the social partners for their opinion. This opinion was requested by September 15. The social partners have expressed their interest in this issue and the proposals made. They requested additional time in order to be able to give their opinion. Of course, respecting social consultation, we have given them this extra time. The subject was discussed at the National Labour Council on Monday, 20 September. Once the social partners have given their opinion, discussions with the working group will resume before we, together with my colleagues Vandenbroucke and Clarinval, make proposals to the government. We will, of course, then come back to this committee to prolong the debates and hope that this reform of the status of workers in the cultural sector can be voted on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u38	Madam President, Minister, to hear you, everything seems quite simple. I hope that things can actually happen in this way. Indeed, as I said earlier in the press release, the criticisms were really harsh, and I think so, quite rightly. In fact, workers in the sector point out that they do not feel recognized as workers in a sector with working conditions and pluralistic practices. They even ask to stop "this false urgency" and to want to go fast enough to vote for a reform. According to them – I quote –: "The urgency raised to speed up the debates and produce a note in just a few weeks responds to a purely political agenda." I hope you take this case seriously. If you meet again around the table, this will be a positive point. As I said earlier, this sector really felt forgotten. I therefore take this opportunity to say that we are in favour of extending the measures taken in the context of the crisis, because the sector really needs them. The difficulties have not been overcome, as demonstrated by the reaction of all workers in the sector to the health pass. We will therefore continue to follow this matter closely, knowing that we would like to know when Parliament can play a constructive role in relation to your reform proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u39	Madam President, Minister, the devastating events of the July floods have affected the lives of thousands of citizens. As someone recently mentioned on the radio, it is often the workers and the poorest citizens who are the first victims of climate problems. My colleague has spoken about his region of Verviers, one of the poorest regions, but there is also the outskirts of Vesdre, where people living in the most impoverished regions live. I have a regular opportunity to go there and it's more than moving: it's revolting. The work to be done is immense. In the face of all this, concrete situations are taking place, but this is not the case for the majority of the people concerned. It is not here that we will be able to solve everything: insurance problems, relocation, etc. According to the PVDA-PTB Group, however, an important aspect falls within the remit of our committee and of yours: to be able to grant a calamity leave for all these people who still have to do work before returning to their homes. There is leave for compelling reasons, which provides 10 days of leave without pay. What do you think of this measure? Is it enough? Some workers are able to arrange with their employer to take a few days off, but this concerns only a minority. Sector agreements and trade union delegations have taken a serious look at the issue and have set up specific agreements to grant certain facilities to workers. In general, the PVDA-PTB Group believes that there is room for a measure to grant them the right, with maintenance of wages, to have a few days' leave to solve administrative or practical problems. What is your opinion on this question?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u40	Madam Member, thank you for your question and for reminding us of the effects of these floods on a part of the Walloon population. I know them well, to be the burmese in title of one of the communes most affected by these dramatic episodes. The collective labour agreement (CTC) No 45 grants workers the right to be absent from work for compelling reasons. For overriding reasons, it is necessary to mean any unpredictable event independent of work which requires the urgent and indispensable intervention of the worker, provided that the execution of the contract of employment makes this intervention impossible. In view of this definition, the right to leave on imperative grounds may be invoked by workers who have been victims of the flood disaster during the summer months and who must take the necessary measures to deal with it. Leave for compelling reasons granted by CTC No. 45 is in principle unpaid. However, this does not prevent additional rights from being granted in addition to the CLC No 45 scheme, either at the sectoral level or at the enterprise level – for example, the right to paid absence, the right to additional days of leave for compelling reasons, etc. In certain circumstances, the emergency situation in which the worker finds himself may also constitute a case of force majeure which temporarily prevents the worker from carrying out his employment contract and for which he may apply to the ONEM for temporary unemployment benefits. From the day after the floods, I gave the instruction – after obtaining the government's permission – to consider that temporary unemployment linked to covid-19, a much more flexible scheme and better compensated than conventional temporary unemployment, could be extended to flood victims, both at the level of disaster-stricken companies and workers. The question of the possible extension of leave entitlements could be raised in the context of the dossier on the harmonisation of the different leave systems on which the social partners will be asked to deal in early 2022. I think that the social partners will have to take this point of attention into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u41	Minister, you are right to come with the other measure, namely the right to temporary unemployment benefits of the covid-19 type in cases of force majeure. The proposal and your suggestions for improving this CLC No. 45, which entitles you to ten days of unpaid leave, do not, of course, constitute the universal panacea and the only truth to remedy these situations. Other measures exist. However, I would like to stress that improving this CTC and treating it as a right – it therefore implies that it is not absolutely necessary to obtain permission from his employer to have access to it – is very important, especially where there is no union representation. The fact that these ten days can be paid – and not without pay – and that they can be assimilated as working days is all the more important. I understand that your other proposal for temporary unemployment benefits covid-19 can remedy this situation, but we must not forget that people want to continue working. It's just a matter of a few days. I therefore ask you to take this into account. We shall return to this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u42	Madam President, Minister, recently the Belgian Transport Union (UBT) denounced the working conditions and remuneration of drivers. The latter are forced to work weeks of at least 60 hours in order to compensate for the low wage received. Many leave the profession for the benefit of other sectors that guarantee better well-being at work. In the face of these difficult working conditions, UBT is concerned that young people may become less involved in the sector in favour of a better balance between work and private life, which could pose a threat to the viability of the sector, since in Belgium 42% of current drivers will go to the pension within the next 10 years. Minister, in consultation with the federated entities, do you intend to put in place measures to upgrade the driver's profession, acting both on the difficult working conditions of drivers and on their remuneration? How do you intend to ensure the attractiveness of the sector for future generations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u43	Madam Chair, Member of Parliament, the profession of driver is indeed a shortage of jobs. It's not new. This has been the case for several years. Working conditions are one of the main reasons for this shortage. Regional investment services are aware of this. In an attempt to solve the problem of jobs in short supply, I convened, in early September, an interdepartmental Employment Conference dedicated specifically to this issue. As a result of this inter-ministerial conference, we are developing a list of measures at both the federal and regional levels to address these shortages. I can already tell you that at the federal level, we are going to focus more on worker mobility. We will also monitor the causes of shortages with a view to finding accessible measures. The intention is to conclude the list of measures at the beginning of October, i.e. in the hours and days ahead. Of course, we will involve the social partners. As far as remuneration is concerned, you know that, with our support, the social partners have agreed to increase the guaranteed minimum wage. This is already a step forward to improve the remuneration of all workers. However, it is clear that efforts will also have to be made in a number of sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answer. There is indeed a demand for better working conditions when it is known that jobs are in short supply. However, I understand that you have organized an interdepartmental Employment Conference and that a whole series of measures will be put in place, as I understand it, in early October. However, the nature of the driver's work requires stricter application of the rules specific to this sector in order to ensure a balance between the smooth running of activities, good working conditions and the social protection of drivers. In any case, I will not fail to ask you again so that you can give me information on the follow-up to this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u45	Minister, in the context of a re-launch plan for work, you proposed, at the beginning of September, inter alia, that unemployment allowances should be granted indefinitely to workers who resign themselves. In the context of the shortage of labour in Flanders, this appears to be an unproductive measure. A worker who now resigns himself will be given one day a week during his period of notice to take one job leave, possibly in two half days, so that the employee can look for another job and have interviews. What advantage do you see in granting this increase in unemployment benefit on top of the paid job leave? Have you had the cost of this measure calculated in any way? Finally, there would be no consensus within the government on this proposal. What was said and decided on this during the discussion with the government and the governments of the Länder?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u46	Minister, I have already asked a question on this subject in plenary, but I thought it would be useful to repeat it to a large extent here in committee because, at the time I asked the question, you were in the dark. As outlined above, everyone supports the intention to increase the level of activity in this country to 80%. Some time ago, in the context of your employment conference, you put on the table 25 proposals to reduce labour shortages. One of these proposals was to allow unemployment benefit after voluntary dismissal. This would violate the principle that unemployment benefits can only be paid if they are involuntarily unemployed. Moreover, this voluntary unemployment benefit would not be limited in time, which means that a person who is tired of work and voluntarily resigns may receive unlimited unemployment benefit instead of contributing to society. That is a remarkable turn of events. In addition, it appears that there is a need for agreement on this proposal within the government. Yet you put it on the table. That's why I have the following questions. Firstly, what are you going to do about the 25 proposals? What's the timing? What steps will you take? Secondly, how do you intend to get more people to work by leading more people to unemployment benefits? That's still the best kept secret on the Wetstraat. Or will you take other measures to that end? I may hope for the second, but I'd like to hear those measures from you. My third question, which is certainly a problem on the Flemish side, concerns the demand for an asymmetric labour market policy, with labour market policies tailored to their needs for the different regions in this country. How will you deal with this in concrete terms? I understand this morning from your party chairman, Mr Magnette, that he believes that more asymmetric policies should be possible. So how will you answer his call? I am very curious and really hope for concrete answers this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to make the labour market more dynamic and to step up the fight against bottleneck professions, I have indeed set up cooperation with the regional ministers for employment. In this context, I have made a series of proposals on several important issues relating to the labour market, such as worker mobility, the reintegration of sick workers and the synergies between the different levels of government. The possibility of asymmetric policies is also discussed and studied in order to clearly reflect the expectations and needs of all parties. Mr Anseeeuw, I can assure you that the measures, like other measures, are being discussed within the federal government. We're working on it. Mrs Moscufo, at this stage, no decision has yet been taken. However, I hope to be able to announce important measures soon. The working note was obviously not intended to be revealed in the press. It is a balanced document, it seems to me, which evolves according to the discussions. I regret that some cartoons may have been made of it. With regard to the specific question of the right to switch, I can state that this measure is also being discussed. The measure is very different from the job-seeking leave which makes it possible to be absent during the notice period in order to seek other employment. The aim of the right to conversion is to increase the mobility of workers in the labour market and to encourage the personal development of workers. The aim of the measure is also to reduce the large increase in the number of sick people. Employees are enabled to reorient themselves before they get depression or burn-out. It goes without saying that this measure must be framed in order to prevent abuse. That right cannot, of course, apply without conditions attached to it. As far as the story is concerned, since this proposal has been made public, and especially since it was clarified and clarified, I have received feedback from some employers and entrepreneurs who were rather in favour of this proposal, who also felt that this measure would help to increase mobility in the labour market and put an end to some complicated difficulties and situations and even some abuses. As always and as in all cases, this requires a little deepening, nuance, and to avoid the cartoons that are sometimes made of certain proposals. The work continues and I hope to be able to come back to you in the next few days with a series of concrete proposals validated by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u49	Minister, as a representative of a nationalist party, you will always agree with me on cooperation with the regions and the asymmetric policy that may result from it, so that every region, both Flanders and Wallonia, can pursue the desired policy and pay for it and is financially responsible. We must, of course, avoid solving one possible abuse by creating another possible abuse. I look forward to the concrete texts. We now have a number of newspaper titles and newspaper articles. Unfortunately, that is what the representatives of the people have to do. As soon as the texts are available and as soon as we can hear the content and the explanation, I am always prepared to have that debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u50	Your objectives, Minister, are, of course, very noble. We are all in favour of reintegrating long-term ill into the labour market. The asymmetric policy is being examined, I can see from your answer. What's going to happen now when and how is going to happen is to watch coffee. It's not that time-limit that's unimportant. The longer we wait for that, the more time we lose. The shortage on the labour market is certainly very pressing in Flanders. Words are then used as in the foreseeable future. That is all very little concrete. Of course, labour mobility needs to be improved. Today there are too many employees trapped in a golden cage. They must be able to taste work in another organisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u51	Mr. Anseuw, can you finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u52	I'm rounding up. Labour mobility is important. That golden cage ensures that quite a few employees do not get the chance to taste another job, where that would in some cases be a good thing for both employer and employee. Of course, this is not done by leading people to unemployment benefits. This is done by ensuring that the people sitting in that golden cage do not run the risk of losing all the benefits associated with a statute, including the financial benefits, immediately when they want to taste another job. We have put forward a proposal for this ourselves. It should be possible to make it temporarily available to another employer when one is working with one employer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u53	Mr Anseuw, there is something like the allowed speaking time for the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u54	If you keep interrupting me, we'll be at it for another hour. I'm rounding up. It should be possible to make employees temporarily available from another employer without losing the parachute with benefits acquired from the first employer. We have tabled a proposal for the temporary posting of another employer. I hope this will be taken into account when considering the measures that are most effective in increasing labour mobility in our labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u55	Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to express our disagreement about discussing such important issues through tweets or through the press. As parliamentarians of the opposition, we did not yet have official documents. My attaché who had contacted your firm to obtain them had not received an answer. On the eve of what we will call "the leaks in the press", we asked you about the subject; you could not tell us much, while the next day it was in the press. According to the PVDA-PTB Group, this is not acceptable from a democratic point of view. Since then, we have had the opportunity to go through the famous 25 measures and we also do not wish to reject everything. The PVDA-PTB supports the proposal that maintains the unemployment rights for those who leave their employer to move towards employment in a sector in need. According to the PVDA-PTB Group, however, some red lines have been crossed, which concern precisely the issue of asymmetric policies. We do not support measures that lead to more sanctions for the unemployed. In the reform of the Di Rupo government, the whole question of degression has only worsened the precariousness. This asymmetrical policy will put workers in competition. It is therefore absolutely necessary to choose another way. Workers need the same measures, whether in the north, south or central part of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u56	Mr Minister, recently, Ikea Hognoul's staff stopped working to protest against a work environment that is deteriorating every day. Workers have been denouncing increasingly heavy working conditions since the health crisis, and even more so since supply disruptions. They can't do it anymore, the number of patients is growing. The trade union organisations claim to have sounded the alarm on numerous occasions, in vain. Finally, it is only after the work stoppage that management seems to have decided to undertake a consultation within each department, with a view to identifying possible solutions. Minister, could you please let me know if any of the Labour Inspectorate's controls have taken place at Ikea Hognoul in recent months? If so, what were the findings? Could you also provide an update on the improvements that may have been proposed by the store management?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u57	"For several weeks, it has been the grunt among the IKEA staff of Hognoul. He complains about the increasingly heavy working conditions since the crisis of the coronavirus, and even more so since the supply disruptions. All the union affiliates, in common front, spontaneously went out to the parking lot on Thursday 14 September for an assembly in order to protest against a dysfunctional work environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u58	Secondly, could you please indicate whether labour inspection controls were carried out at the IKEA store in Hognoul during the year 2021? If so, what are the conclusions?"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u59	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the conciseness of your questions. I'll try to be concise in my turn. The Directorates-General Control of Social Laws and Control of Work Well-being of the SPF Emploi did not carry out any checks in the file you cite between January 1, 2021 and today. If evidence of fraud or problematic behaviour were to be brought to their attention, checks would of course be carried out. Since neither I nor my firm nor the administration services have been questioned by the trade union representatives, unfortunately I cannot comment on this issue, which is primarily a matter of social consultation at company level. In any case, you know my commitment to the quality of employment, and I very much hope that working conditions will improve at Ikea, but also for all workers in this and other sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u60	Minister, but what to say? If you have not been consulted, this is obviously problematic, but I think that at some point we cannot close our eyes to the problem of Ikea, which, in order to counter the weakening of its jobs and in the name of customer service, increases the flexibility of its workers. It is true that the physical and mental damage is increasing within the company, but I understand that you cannot tell me more if you have not been questioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Of course, without consultation, it is difficult to be more precise. Nevertheless, I know your commitment to the problem of well-being at work and I know that you will be attentive in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u62	Minister, this September 22nd we learned of the closure of the Kuehne+Nagel Logistics Group's Nicel site by October 2022. A collective redundancies procedure involving 549 workers has been initiated. This is a new tragedy for employment in Belgium. Management believes that the Logistics Nivelles site, which provides part of the Carrefour stores, is no longer profitable and generates losses since the plant was resumed in 2005. The spokesperson for the Kuehne+Nagel Group believes that, despite the reorganizations and capital increases, there are no prospects for profitability. This is not the opinion of the trade unions, which, on the other hand, denounce a lack of investment in equipment and infrastructure. Because behind this decision is, in fact, a project to relocate the activity to two Flemish settlements (one to be built) a few tens of kilometres from the present site. Many questions arise concerning this closing announcement, and will need to be answered in the procedure of informing and consulting workers. Why this lack of investment and the lack of infrastructure repair for years, despite workers' warnings? Why this sudden closure while the productivity of the Nivelles site is higher than that of other sites? Why lay off while the financial health of the Carrefour and Kuehne+Nagels groups is very good? Why a reopening of sites less than 50 kilometres from the Nivelles site? Is this not a hijacked way to degrade the working conditions of employees without going through social consultation? What is Carrefour's sole customer responsibility for Kuehne+Nagel? In short, all these questions will be answered in the Renault procedure. To you, Minister, of course, I have other questions. The Renault procedure is under way. You said you wanted to reform it. What's the status of this project? How can we make the procedure more efficient and take better account of workers' comments? More generally, what strategy do you intend to implement to prevent companies from continuing to circumvent social laws through closures and reopenings? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u63	Minister, the Supertransport workers started a strike last week following the announcement by the management of 549 redundancies with a view to closing the Logistics site in Nivelles within a year. Jobs will be relocated to Flanders where workers will be less well paid because they do not enjoy the same status. The Kuehne+Nagel group is far from being in trouble. The multinational made 4.5 billion profits between 2014 and 2020. In addition, it has been pressing Nivelles workers for two years to be more productive, including unaccounted overtime. She also sabotaged the Logistics site where she deinvested in anticipation of this closure. I went to the company's site last Thursday and I was able to see the anger of these workers who are really disrespectful. The director, accompanied by six bodyguards, did not even have the courage to come and announce this unfair decision to the workers. Today, the lives of 550 families are upset, once again because of the logic of profit of a company that wants more and more. Fortunately, we see that the workers are determined not to let themselves be done. And despite the attempt to make it a community fight, solidarity is present in Flanders, where the strike movement spread to Antwerp, as shown by a report by RTL-TVI. With the PTB, we welcome this solidarity between regions and say loud and clear that our lives are better than their profits! Minister, in 2016, your party put forward (like the PTB) a ban on redundancies and restructuring when a company makes profits. This was your fifth proposal among the 170 commitments following your "potential of ideas". What initiatives are you planning to maintain the activity in Nivelles? Are you considering putting this proposal back on the table in the face of this logic of increasing profit to the detriment of employment? Have you made contact with trade union organizations? If so, what commitment have you given?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u64	Colleagues, the figures and data concerning the closure of the site have been widely reported in the press. As you know, the logistics group Kuehne+Nagel informed my administration on 22nd September that it wanted to close the Nivelles site in 2022. As a result, 549 workers are at risk of losing their jobs, Carrefour being the only customer on the Nice website, as you recalled. After a spontaneous first strike, workers decided by referendum to return to work. This resumption of work has not proved so easy. We can understand that. On Friday, 1 October, a conciliation meeting was held within my administration and the Joint Committee concerned. Agreements have been reached for the resumption of activities and the resumption of social dialogue in the context of the closure. Meanwhile, the conciliators involved in my administration continue to monitor the situation closely. On my side, informal contacts were also held with trade union representatives. I particularly want us to continue to follow this issue closely. It is not for me here to assume the supposed or proven motivations of management. What matters to me is the affected workers, as well as their families. If public aid has been granted, I have no doubt that the regions - mainly competent in this field - will pay particular attention to it. You also know that the Wallonia government is also following this issue very closely and became involved in it as soon as the management announced it. The harshness of this announcement and the intention to relocate is indeed to relate to the benefit of the group. I have already had the opportunity to express my wish to see the so-called Renault procedure evaluated and improved. Pursuant to the 2017-2018 cross-sectoral agreement, the NTC examined the issue of restructuring and issued two opinions - opinion 21.49 and opinion 21.89 - as well as recommendation 28 on the subject. This includes a call for quality and effective information and consultation. From this planned closure in Nivelles, as well as from other reorganisations, we will have to be able to learn all the lessons with regard to the current system and its effectiveness. If efficiency is not at work, proposals will be made to the social partners. I've already sketched some of them. In my view, obligations relating to a social plan and a training plan are part of the avenues to be explored. In a situation such as this, it seems to me that, as part of this information and consultation phase, all alternatives must be considered. It is not conceivable to separate from its staff to move a few tens of kilometres away, even though the mobility of our labour forces can be a strong asset in the face of unemployment on the one hand and labour shortages on the other. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I assure you that I will continue to follow this matter closely, both in the particular case of the Nivelles site, but in a broader way in relation to the updating and amendment of the so-called Renault law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u65	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, there's this opinion from the CNT. It still dates from 2019. I invite you to implement this project that you promised us a few months ago. It is important to be able to protect workers at a time when they are most fragile, that is, when the balance of forces is in their total disfavor, at the time of dismissals. You also stressed the totally inconceivable aspect of moving a few tens of kilometres away. I share your indignation. The connection you made with the dividends, I had done it, too, of course. This reinforces the shocking side of this dismissal. According to the workers, there were indeed management problems. The unions also explained that it had not been proposed that workers should be rehired a few tens of kilometres away. There are a whole series of things that need to be improved in the law, which can be improved in the law. This would improve the concrete situation of workers at a time when they face the greatest difficulties at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u66	Minister, you are listening to trade union organizations, but they need relays. If you had put in place a proposal for a ban on redundancies, which is the case today, and a ban on restructuring, that would have provided them with support, which is currently lacking. The new Vivaldi government has been in place for more than a year. We would have supported you if that support had existed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u67	Mr Minister, the audit of the Court of Auditors on the reintegration routes of long-term sick people is according to De Standaard ', because the report itself, as opposition members, of course, has not been downright devastating. Re-integration pathways are apparently used to definitively declare or dismiss people unfit for medical reasons rather than to put them back to work. According to the newspapers, the Court of Auditors is extremely critical of the government's follow-up to these routes and notes that the most basic figures are not kept up to date to evaluate their follow-up. Hence my questions. Do you agree with the fierce criticism that the Court of Auditors has shown in relation to the succession? When will you review the reintegration pathways? What are your ideas for reforming these pathways? What incentive will you give employers to encourage them to become more proactive on such routes?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u68	Madam President, Minister, according to De Standaard newspaper, an audit of the Federal Court of Auditors is particularly severe with respect to the federal government's reintegration policy. One of the conclusions would be that, on an unchanged policy basis, reintegration programmes are unlikely to make a substantial contribution to reducing the number of long-term patients. We're talking about more than a million people here. The Court of Auditors also states that a large part of the reintegration journey through companies is initiated with the aim of obtaining a dismissal for medical force majeure. This confirms the position of the unions that have been talking about a machine for layoff for some time now. Today, studies show that 13% of long-term patients return to work with the same employer, while 56% lose their jobs. It's huge. Mr Minister, we had questions about this, but in the meantime you have already spoken. You say that you intend to decouple the reintegration process from the termination because, in your opinion, the objective of these programs is to get people back to work and not to dismiss them. We look forward to it. However, in concrete terms, how will you apply it? How will you address the cause of this problem and ensure the feasibility of the work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u69	Madam President, as set out in the government agreement, the integration of people with health problems should be improved on the basis of the recommendations of the social partners. We will, among other things, simplify and speed up the process of reintegration among our own employers. We will also clarify and strengthen a number of aspects, such as the multidisciplinary nature of the assessment of reintegration and employers' obligations. We also provide for adjustments to the procedure for medical force majeure in accordance with the observations of the Court of Auditors. In addition, we want to better support employers and explore how we can facilitate reintegration with financial incentives. In addition, I want to strengthen collective reintegration policies in companies. The most effective means of curbing the sharp rise in the number of disabled workers who are sick at home due to occupational risks is to use widely supported prevention measures in the workplace, agreed in a social dialogue. It is also extremely important that workers are properly received after a long period of illness when returning to the workplace. That is why I want to strengthen the existing legal framework. However, as shown by the study of the KU Leuven commissioned by the SPF Employment, reinstatement in the employer is not always possible or desirable, even for the worker. If this is not the case, you must dare to look at opportunities in other employers. This study shows that almost half of those interviewed returned to work after a reintegration journey, although almost 70% of them did so with another employer, particularly in the case of psychosocial risks or conflicts at work. That is why, together with my colleague Frank Vandenbroucke, I want to work to improve cooperation with regional employment services and to provide training programmes to find employment with another employer. Finally, it is also important to be able to monitor the reintegration properly using correct figures and data, as indicated by the Court of Auditors. The information is too widely disseminated today by various actors, such as mutualities, occupational doctors, employers and so on. We investigate how and to whom this data can best be collected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u70	Improving the reintegration of long-term patients is, of course, an objective that everyone can support. This is an advantage for both the long-term sick and the employer. If a venerable institution such as the Court of Auditors gives serious criticism, that is of course not negligible either. That sharp criticism must be something to think about. I can see a beginning in your answer to that, but we certainly must continue to do so, especially with regard to monitoring the data on long-term diseases and reintegration projects. If they are so divided that no one has an overview, it is of course very easy to abuse the system, but improvement points are not noticed either because the data are simply not available.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u71	Mr Minister, you also take back the famous figures of the Court of Auditors: 56% lose their jobs. It would be interesting to know what became of these people. I'd like to share a concrete story with you. I have a 56-year-old friend who's a housekeeper and has to stop working because it's getting too hard for her. As a result of a re-integration process, she was dismissed for force majeure. As a result, she is unemployed. It is obviously not possible to live in dignity with unemployment if you also have a dependent teenager. It's misery. So she has to look for a job. She is one of those 60% of the working class that does not have a higher degree. So she finds a job as a housekeeper. She works three months and finds herself again in sick leave. It finds itself in poverty and falls morally and psychologically low. She has to go knock at the CPAS door. I explain this to you because we will also have to fight with you against certain ideas conveyed in this Parliament and in this committee, which interpret the reintegration of the sick as the fact that many of them are not really ill. I want to fight this misconception. I will continue with my group to follow up on the concrete steps you will take in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u72	Joined Questions No 55021122C by Mr Gaby Colebunders, No 55021123C by Mr Peter Mertens, No 55021125C by Mrs Nadia Moscufo and No 55021126C by Mr Raoul Hedebouw are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u73	Minister, in our country there are a great many seasonal workers who come from outside Belgium and even from outside Europe, particularly in the agricultural and horticultural sectors. The number of posted workers fell due to the corona crisis and restrictions on travel, but there appears to be a further upward trend. During checks carried out by your services at a number of companies at the end of September, a large number of infringements were detected. At least this is evident from the newspapers of the Sud Presse group at the end of September. In your policy statement, you indicated that you wanted to develop an approach to combat this international fraud. What is your position on these measures? What results have they achieved? What measures will you take to activate the pole of unemployed people in the country and to reduce the number of posted workers from abroad, because it appears that fraud is still widespread in this branch?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u74	Madam President, the problem of social dumping is not confined to agriculture and horticulture. The phenomenon also occurs in other sectors, including construction and cleaning. I shall therefore outline the overall approach, with a distinction between measures at national and supranational level. At national level, SIOD started a social dumping programme in 2021. This is part of the Action Plan against Social Fraud 2021, which also provides for increased control of posted workers and their working and living conditions. In early 2021, SIOD was strengthened by eight new social inspectors focusing on combating social dumping. Work is currently under way on a proposal for heavier sanctions, administrative and penalty, for all self-employed and companies which do not comply with European and Belgian legislation. Several initiatives have also been launched at international level. Negotiations are currently under way with the Netherlands and Luxembourg in the context of a treaty to combat social fraud in the Benelux countries. Cooperation with the inspection services of the other Member States and with the European Labour Authority shall be intensified. Recent inspections in the horticultural sector are part of this better cooperation, the seasonal worker campaign. The number of cross-border inspections will be renewed. Belgium fully supports the tasks and objectives of the European Labour Authority. A joint check will be carried out this month. Belgian and foreign police and our social inspection services will also cooperate more closely in the framework of the new Mobility Package with a view to monitoring compliance with measures to combat social dumping. As far as your last question is concerned, the supervision and activation of job seekers is a matter for the Regions and the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u75	I am certainly aware of the fact that social dumping is wider than agriculture and horticulture alone. I have asked you a number of questions about this. I asked this question as a result of a specific action in the Christmas tree sector, which are in Wallonia rather than Flanders, but I did not do so at all. I believe that more controls are to be welcomed. I remember a hearing with the person responsible for the SIOD. He had several questions and one was about new, additional employees. It's eight now. That is a small step in the right direction. He also talked about intensive cooperation with other services, including police services, which are often unknown to the phenomena associated with social dumping. I hope that this cooperation, that boots on the ground in particular, can be intensified, because that is the only way to eradicate social dumping by root and branch.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u76	Madam President, Minister, we are facing a very disturbing problem. The government had assimilated periods of temporary unemployment to work. This meant that there was no penalty when the calculation of the holiday money was made. But the government did not extend the measure. As a result, workers forced into temporary unemployment received 70 per cent of their wages and thus suffered a loss of wages. Moreover, when they took their leave, they were faced with a new loss which, for the most part (147,818 workers), is substantial. It was July. Since then, there has been some revival, but this only concerns half (74,000) of the workers. Minister, how and when do you intend to solve this problem, especially since there is a request from the National Labour Council (NTC) and the position of the NTC's union bench is to seek ratification? We do not understand why the application of this demand is slow when it is the least social justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u77	Minister, the government recently extended a limited number of aid measures until the end of 2021, including the temporary unemployment scheme. In view of the holiday rights of 2021, the Government has decided to equate the days of temporary unemployment by 2020 with effective working days for the calculation of the duration of the annual holiday and also for the amount of the holiday allowance. The equivalence of the days of temporary unemployment for the calculation of the holiday allowance for 2021 entailed additional costs. The government has decided to take part in this in the light of the pandemic. However, there is currently no equalisation scheme for temporary unemployment for 2021. Indeed, the problem repeats itself in 2021. There are still people who end up in temporary unemployment because of corona or the floods. They should therefore also receive a calculation for their holiday allowances and holidays. The NAR met as a matter of urgency following your proposal to extend the temporary unemployment scheme until the end of 2021. The NAR has also requested the extension of the temporary unemployment scheme, but has also unanimously requested that the period of temporary unemployment and the necessary compensation for the annual leave in the scheme be equalised for the full year 2021 for both the workers and the servants. That question from the NAR was not carried out. More than that, I hear it hasn't been submitted to the government either. Mr Minister, my question to you is as follows. Will the government achieve a level playing field for the annual holidays of the days of temporary unemployment due to corona or flooding in 2021? The NAR argued that an equalisation for annual holidays and compensation is one and indivisible both for the financing of holiday allowances for the National Agency for Annual Holidays and for the employees and servants concerned. In that case, will the government again meet all or part of the costs of the annual holiday allowance? I assume it'll be partial. The Council will also provide a key for the most affected companies and will deliver an opinion on this on 15 October 2021. Will you follow the advice? Minister, what is your view on the temporary unemployment measure due to corona in 2022?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u78	At my request, the social partners have considered this important issue. I am pleased that an agreement has been reached in the NAR on the equivalence of temporary unemployment from 2021 for the annual leave and the extension of temporary unemployment corona until the end of the year. As soon as the opinion was delivered, I extended the exceptional system of temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure. I am convinced that it is still necessary for many companies and employees. They receive 70% of their wages and a daily supplement of 5.63 euros. In their opinion, the social partners also ask that the government provide for compensation for the equivalence of temporary unemployment corona for the National Agency for Annual Vacation and the employers of the workers concerned. The details of these compensations have yet to be worked out by the social partners. The government which appreciates the social dialogue will then consider the issue. As regards temporary unemployment in 2022, an opinion of the National Labour Council is expected in the coming days. It is expected on 15 October and will of course also be analysed. I have already been able to say that some employers and workers will still need temporary "revisited" corona unemployment in 2022. In my view, a series of companies and sectors – and even subsectors – will still be victims of a form of long economic co-vid in 2022, while having prospects for recovery, but which are somewhat shifted over time. I am thinking in particular of the air sector or the air construction sector. This must be taken into account, and this is a request that was sent to me by the VOKA when I visited the Brussels-National airport. That was for a summer internship at the VOKA. We will be waiting for the next few days for the revision and extension of this system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u79	Minister, I have heard your comments on the extension and I am pleased that you are taking into account the fact that in 2022 certain sectors will suffer from what you call a "long economic covid". However, I have not heard your answer concerning the assimilation of these days in order not to penalise workers on the calculation of their holiday money.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u80	On this subject, we have received the opinion – still partial to date – of the social partners. In relation to the compensation requested, the social partners still have to deliver an opinion. It was announced on 15 October. It will cover both the compensation mechanism and the distribution key, and both a new system of economic unemployment corona by 2022. We await the return of the social partners in order to be able to take a position within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u81	Of course, I am not satisfied with your answer. As much as our group is at your side in the context of respect for social consultation, we do not understand why you do not take your responsibility as a minister on this injustice, which means that people who have been penalized for the first time by unemployment will be penalized for the second time. We will therefore continue to insist on this because this double penalty is very insecure for those who work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u82	Minister, I do not quite understand why you are splitting up the two issues. The NAR's opinion was twofold and one was linked to the other. Measures on temporary unemployment were extended until the end of this year at the request of the NAR. In addition, and linked to this, holidays and holiday allowances are built up for the days of temporary unemployment. That was already part of the advice you received. The NAR has said that a new opinion will be issued for the key on 15 October, but that key is actually a detail. I am therefore surprised that you did not submit the principle to the government. It seems that compensation for the holiday allowance has not yet been decided by the government, also because you have not yet submitted it to the government. I hope that you will do so and that the social partners will also be able to clarify the holiday money very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u83	Mrs Lanjri, as you know, we in the government are currently discussing the budget format. The question of the social partners is also before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u84	Minister, it is a pity that only one part of the opinion was presented. It would have been better if the principle had been approved by the government when the unemployment measures were extended. The details can then be completed in a second phase. I will also give your answer to the social partners who asked me about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u85	Madam President, I have not yet understood the logic of the attached questions. I wondered why this issue was not attached to the other two. They'll explain it to me someday. Minister, as I have already said, the extension of measures in favour of the whole cultural sector (artists, technicians, etc.) I think it is essential, especially if this government comes back a little into question as to how it treated all these workers at the beginning of the pandemic. I want to say we take the same ones back and continue if we don't extend them. There is the whole problem of extending the inclusion allowance measure for our young people. And finally, there is the freeze on the degression of unemployment benefits that the government wants to put an end to. I find this extremely shocking, with all the dramatic consequences in terms of poverty, because that is what this is all about. Minister, why did you decide to put an end to these measures? How much would it have cost to extend each of these measures to December 31, 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u86	Measures during the Coronavirus crisis were taken on an exceptional basis to enable workers, employers and social beneficiaries to cope with the situation. It has always been clear that these measures are temporary and are not intended to be structural. For the fourth quarter of 2021, taking into account the health and economic situation, the government took the decision to adopt more targeted measures. With regard to the specific measures you are quoting, a consensus could not be reached to extend them, which I regret. The positions of the various parties around the table were particularly distant. As you know, some political parties felt that all aid measures could be stopped as early as 1 October. That wasn't my point of view. The budgetary impact of the measures you mentioned was estimated at EUR 85.1 million for degressivity, EUR 15.7 million for integration allowances and EUR 1.82 million for measures concerning workers in the cultural sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u87	I want to say that fortunately the majority of workers in our country are affiliated with trade union organisations that will continue to put pressure on us to extend these measures. Those in the government who use the fact that it was temporary to stop the measures are hypocrites. Until proven otherwise, it seems to me that the pandemic is not over and that the economic recovery is not there. There are still 60.5 million days in which the entire working class does not know how to work and this is still the continuation of the pandemic. We're going to keep hitting the nail and I imagine that the opposition to the freeze of degression comes from those who, on the right, think that by reducing the amount of unemployment, people will find a job instead of saying that job creation is the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u88	Questions Nos 55021416C and 55021417C by Mrs Thémont were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u89	Figures I have already requested from Minister Muylle, and also from you, show that very few mystery calls have been carried out in recent years because there would be too many thresholds. In 2020, no mystery calls were actually performed at all, which was not only related to the corona crisis, so no controls could be carried out. They are not really surprising figures as we know that there are many cumulative conditions which make it very difficult for social inspectors to provide for practical tests. That is why I had also tabled a legislative proposal, which we discussed in committee last year. Other colleagues also tabled a legislative proposal at that time. We had put these on the committee's agenda as a priority, but you indicated at the beginning of this year that you wanted to submit a draft law yourself. In the meantime, however, we are already ten months away and we have still not seen a draft law from you. I'm getting a little impatient. I would like to see progress in the law on mystery calls to make the practical tests more efficient. Recently, a study by Ghent University showed that there is structural discrimination based on ethnic origin and age. That is what we need to do, including in the labour market. Minister, when will you come to Parliament with your draft law? Are all the necessary advice in the meantime? What advice do you expect? How do you want to adapt the current framework to make it more efficient? I hear your proposal of design is in line with my proposal. Is that right? Will you include the mystery calls in the national plan against racism? Of course, this is not a standalone measure, but it must be part of a larger picture. How will you fit mysterycalls into the wider story?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u90	As you know, Mrs Lanjri, I have worked on the revision of the legal framework that allows for discrimination testing. The coalition agreement sets out the conditions for that review. The social inspection should be able to carry out discrimination tests either on the basis of a well-founded complaint or on the basis of data mining and data matching data or on the basis of objective indications. The performance of the tests shall always require the prior written consent of the labour inspector. The framework should also ensure that any form of provocation is avoided. The draft law drawn up in accordance with the coalition agreement has been submitted to several bodies. We are still waiting for the NAR's opinion, then the text has to be sent to the Council of State. In order to ensure that these discrimination tests are finally fully effective, I think it is essential to hear the views of the social partners, but I cannot wait and will have to do so without it if the opinion is not to be delivered soon. I want the law to enter into force by 1 January 2022 at the latest. Finally, I would like to say that the reform of the specific powers of the social inspectors to work on discrimination will also be an effective instrument in the fight against all forms of discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u91	Minister, I agree that it has taken long enough. We have been waiting for the NAR's advice for almost a year now. I think it is right for you to say that if you do not do so for a long time, you will continue, of course, with the opinion of the Council of State. I look forward to approving the legislative text in Parliament so that we can finally make progress on the incentive in the labour market. Hopefully, this new regulation can enter into force from 1 January 2022. It is high time to tackle discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u92	Minister, the social partners have recently issued an opinion on the issue of maternity leave or short leave for foster parents in the context of long-term foster care. I am pleased that your cabinet is examining the opinion in detail, as shown by a question I asked in September 2021. However, I have a further concern. After all, I see in the opinion that the definitions of long-term foster care are different from those that we use legally. In the opinion of the social partners, a distinction is made between on-going foster care, whereby foster children reside with the foster parents at the time of the event, and foster care from the past, in which the child lived with the foster parents in the past. However, for past foster care, the definition that we normally use in legislation is not taken into account. When we talk about long-term foster care, we are talking about foster care of at least six months in the same family. Often that is also a long time of years. Now the social partners say that it must be for a continuous period of three years. This is a very new definition, which has not yet been incorporated into our other legislation. In addition, we have also followed the regulations for the circumstanceal leave due to the death of a child, i.e. the mourning leave, which has just been approved, and we have laid down that it concerns foster children who have stayed in the family for at least six months, including in the past. It would be very strange if it were not as provided for in Article 30s of the Law of 3 July 1978. My concern is therefore that the regulation becomes very complex, illogical and confusing for many foster parents as well as for employers and for employees, so that they no longer know whether or not there is a right to small-scale care. For example, they will be able to take little notice of a child who dies or dies and no longer stays in the family. However, they will not be able to take a small notice of, for example, attending the communion of a child who has only been placed a month before. Will you use the general definition of foster care in the Royal Decree? In this way we can avoid confusion. Will you also motivate the social partners to do so? We need a single clear definition. It is impossible for royal decrees to use definitions other than those laid down in the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u93	Ms Lanjri, in an opinion of 13 July 2021, the social partners made a distinction between on-going foster care and foster care that had been terminated. In the case of ongoing foster care, the social partners refer to the definition of long-term foster care mentioned above. However, when foster care is terminated, the NAR intends to establish another criterion. In that case, it is suggested that three years of continuous living should have been spent together, as you said. The transposition of this advice, combined with the recent changes in the area of mourning leave, is a complex matter, which my services are still working on. As soon as my services have drawn up a draft text, we will submit it to the social dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u94	Minister, my plea is to ensure clarity. I think that the social partners will understand that there are no different definitions. For example, you could take a little beating for a child who died and lived with you for two years in the past and left you for six months, but not for a child who has lived with you for two years and does his communion. Those are two different definitions. In one case, we are talking about six months, in the other of three years. That's very confusing and illogical. I think we should just use the legal definition. There's a law that says what we mean by long-term foster care. This concerns both ongoing foster care and past foster care. I do not think that other interpretations can be used there. It is also a very limited group. I believe that you can also give this motivation to the social partners to comply with the rules in force.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u95	Madam President, Madam Member, the social negotiations have not yet started on the relevant sites, namely Doel and Tihange. The issue is, however, being followed by the social partners in Joint Committee 326, but it has not yet been raised in detail. I have already had preliminary discussions with my colleague Minister Van der Straeten. I can also point out that there is still a collective agreement in place until 2027, which guarantees job security at the sites concerned. There is also a general collective labour agreement which contains a number of agreements in the event of layoffs due to the closure of the site, e.g. the possibility of transfer. Thus, basic elements are in place to draw up the above-mentioned social plan with the social partners at the right time and with the necessary time, provided that there is a good time. In this context, an important focus will certainly be indirect employment, with all the subcontractors involved in the operation of these nuclear power plants. I would also like to point out that, together with Minister Van der Straeten and Secretary of State Dermine, we have launched a consultation of the sector. When I talk about the sector, it is the sector in the broad sense, that is, all the companies that, in Belgium today, could set up and create an industrial sector, with regard to the dismantling of power plants, with the aim of maintaining employment in the sector by redirecting it towards the activity of dismantling power plants and the recovery of the various waste, but also with the ambition of being able in the future – and in the short term, I hope – to export this know-how and these techniques abroad. In the coming years, we will be faced with the dismantling of a large number of power plants, both at home and in a number of European countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u96	Minister, you are doing well to recall the collective labour agreement which guarantees employment until 2027 and the various forms of transfer possible. We call on the government to take ambitious decisions for all the workers concerned, also in the longer term. That is what worries them the most, and we fully understand them. This means: no direct or indirect redundancies beyond existing agreements; no change in status, which would mean the levelling down of working conditions. I can hear your concern, but you didn't say anything about the next one. This closure has been planned for 18 years, so an ambitious plan could have been put in place to maintain 100% of employment. You weren't there 18 years ago, but your party did.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u97	I was born!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u98	Your party was in the government. We regret the lack of long-term prospects. This is all the more scandalous as we know that the Electrabel sector makes quite impressive profits. He must also play his part.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u99	Madam President, if I may, I would like to add something I have already mentioned, but Mrs Moscufo may not have heard or understood me. Our will, together with Thomas Dermine and Tinne Van der Straeten, is really to create a concertation between the nuclear players but also, beyond that, the industrial players who could, tomorrow, set up a real industrial sector in Belgium as part of the dismantling of the power plants. That is really our goal, our wish. We have gathered around the table a whole series of speakers, mostly private but also public, in order to try to structure this activity, this industrial sector, at home in Belgium, first to proceed with the dismantling of the plants. You know that, whatever the decisions to come, at least five nuclear reactors will have to be shut down and dismantled over the next few years. It is also known that this is a time-consuming process involving a lot of skills and labour forces. The first is to be able to carry out these activities here in Belgium, with the existing know-how, and then to export this know-how throughout Europe and, why not, throughout the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic591x.u100	Thank you, Minister. I very much hope so, anyway.
