ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u1	Minister, much has already been said and written about the closure of the counters. There are not only 44 booths closed, there are 37 stations where the opening hours of the counters are reduced. I have two questions about that. The first is specifically about my own region, Limburg. Lockdowns aren't gonna be closed there anymore. Well, that's hard, too. There were only five left open. We have already been well-off in previous rounds of closure. As far as the five remaining counters in Limburg are concerned, there are four of them whose opening hours are limited: Genk, Neerpelt, Sint-Truiden and Tongeren, to be concrete. How many tickets were sold in those stations in 2018, 2019 and 2020? I also want to know specifically for each station what hours are missing, and how many tickets have been sold? Finally, what is the total savings achieved through these four stations? I am aware that this is a fairly annoying question. I would normally ask for this in writing, but I assume that this decision was not just taken and that figures are available. If that is not the case, I would ask the question on the basis of which these stations were decided. I assume that these figures are there and that I can ask for them exceptionally orally. More generally, my question is whether you were aware of SNCB's plans to restrict opening hours at the various stations. Was an employee involved in the prior discussions? Was that decision taken and endorsed by SNCB's Management Board on 7 November 2020? Was there a representative of the government, a government commissioner or anyone else present? Were you aware of that? Why did you not use your powers and Article 162nions of the 1991 Law on the reform of certain public economic enterprises? As a minister, you had the power to appeal against the decision taken within a period of 14 days. Why didn't you? Finally, I have a question in the margin. Do you think it is correct that you publicly challenged the decision after you failed to make use of that possibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u2	Minister, you and SNCB have decided to restrict the opening hours of the Marloie station counter. This schedule has been reduced by four hours per day since 1 March 2021. For the province of Luxembourg, this is a further violation of the provision of public services in rural areas. In addition, with 1,600 commuters per day, the Marloie railway station is the third largest passenger station in the province of Luxembourg, so important for the 162 Brussels-Luxembourg line. Minister, have you been aware of the importance and attractiveness of the Marloie railway station in the rail network? Don't you see a contradiction with the reduction of the window schedule? Did you act against this schedule reduction? What projects for the Marloie station are planned in the transport plan 2020-2023? Can you explain the reasons for the four-hour reduction per day? Are you going to commit yourself, as a minister, to fighting to go back and ensure a wider time range for Marloie commuters?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u3	Minister, the trade unions held an action day on 3 March in the context of keeping the points of contact open. Poverty organisations as well as citizens, trade unions, elderly groups and travellers protested at the closure of the counters. In Ans, the people of the Navetteurs.be interest group protested. In Bertrix, the local government took action. In Beveren-Waas there was political protest, just like in Binche. In Châtelet there were trade union actions of the ACOD Spoor, as in De Pinte. In Diksmuide, the city council approved a motion against the closing of the window. The travelers in Gouvy want to keep their window. Alain Top, sp.a mayor of Harelbeke, says that SNCB's decision to close the window is not accepted and says that he will stop it by all means possible. In Heide, the window staff is taking action. In Heist, civilians resisted. In Jambes, users took action. In Jette, the PVDA has taken action several times, along with the travelers. In Jurbise, mayor Galant is furious because of the closure of the counter by SNCB. In Kontich-Lille, the PVDA took action and collected signatures for disgruntled train passengers. There was also political protest in Lede. In Lessen, a motion against closure was adopted unanimously. In Leuven, the trade unions took action, together with the travellers. In Liedekerke there is political protest from the CD&V mayor. The non-profit association Lire et Ecrire took action for the interests of the low-literate. In Marbehan there was a motion from the local government, with the support of Ecolo, to keep the counters open. In Marchienne-au-Pont, the local PVDA, colleague D'Amico and travelers carried out actions. In Mariembourg there were trade union actions. In Mechelen Nekkerspool, the PVDA took action to charge that the renewed station has cost millions and SNCB is now closing the window. In Menen, the city administration filed a motion against the closing of the counters. In Ninove, the local operation and track operation of the PVDA took action against the closure. In Opwijk, the trade unions protested against the closure. In Pérulwez there was a civil protest. The city of Poperinge made a motion against the closure. In Rixensart, a traveler launched a petition against the closing of the window. Rochefort-Jemelles also filed a motion. In Ronse, the PVDA took action together with the trade unions and travellers to keep the window open and the city council approved a motion. In Saint-Ghislain there were also actions of the local PVDA department. Silly even filed two motions to keep the counters open. There have also been actions in Saint Genesius-Rode. There's a petition going around in Terhulpen. In Ternat, the city council protests. Tielt also approved a motion against the closure. The CD&V mayor of Torhout isn't talking about the closure. There was a civilian protest in Veurne. There have been trade union actions in Virton. There was a civilian protest in Waterloo. There's been an argument in Waver. Finally, in Zaventem we also took action with the PVDA and filed a petition. So, Minister, there is a great deal of protest against the closing of the counters. That is why we have a number of questions. What is your answer to the question of the socialist trade union to keep the counters open? What is your answer to the questions of the many local authorities to keep their window open? What is your answer to the question of associations representing people with disabilities in order to keep all points of contact open and provide maximum services for less mobile passengers? In fact, we had a discussion this morning with Unia on this issue. I would like to come to my second question on the closure of the stations. Firstly, now that the appointment carousel is in full swing, what is the status of the appointments on the Board of Directors of SNCB? Which board member will have to make room? Which board members make their appearance on the renewed board of directors? We know that Ecolo-Groen will also be able to designate the chairman of the SNCB Board of Directors. Is that right? Who are you looking for? Secondly, can the decision to close the 44 stations be reviewed once the SNCB Board has been renewed? Will the new Chairman of the Management Board put the item back on the agenda? Finally, has there been any consultation with one or more local authorities regarding the closure of the station counter? If so, which boards have been consulted? What was the outcome of the consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u4	Mrs Vindevoghel, thank you for your trip across the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u5	Mr President, I brought you from the north to the south of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u6	Mr President, Minister, my first question concerns the closure of the ticket offices at the Arlon and Libramont stations. This means a complete desertion of the SNCB public service in the province of Luxembourg. In any case, that's what you told the Friends of the Halanzy Rail, which you met recently. Do you confirm this information? Does SNCB envisage closing the ticket offices at Arlon and Libramont stations? How will you oppose this disconnection of the public service in the province of Luxembourg? My second question concerns station agents discouraging commuters from going to the counters and forcing them to use the automatons. The association de défense des voyageurs Shuttles.be reported worrying testimonies concerning the reception at the station, which overlap and confirm that instructions have been given to this effect by SNCB. Shuttles.be's statement states: "If we had already been able to observe this kind of practice during field investigations in 2019, we see a cynical escalation forbidding travellers to obtain a service with a human dimension. We believe that these practices must be stopped immediately and we invite Minister Gilkinet to ask SNCB about these methods, which have no other purpose but to continue to distort the figures of transactions at the counters, in order to be able to justify a further wave of partial or total closures." The press release was issued on 3 March. The SNCB reacted by denying, of course, but only with the lips Minister, what is the truth? Were you aware of these practices? Have you asked SNCB to be aware of this? Do you consider that these practices have been able to distort the statistics on the use of counters and motivate their closure? If so, what do you intend to do to prevent new waves of window closures? What are you going to do to restore a normal situation in which commuters will be able to access all of the station counters that are still open and where counters will be able to continue to do their job at their station – not as stewards on the dock?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u7	There was an additional question from colleague De Spiegeleer concerning the station Burst.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u8	I had linked my question to it because Mrs Jadin's question, which is a little more general than the counters themselves, was also added.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u9	In view of the fact that the point of contact is still being considered and I see it as a symbolic dossier, a pars pro toto for the general service in station buildings, I would also like to include my question in the topical debate and have asked the Minister to give a detailed written reply. Although the points of contact were closed in 2013, I would like to reiterate that this is a station that counts more than a thousand passengers a day. This is an important station on a very busy line between Brussels and Kortrijk. It is more than just the point of contact itself, it is the general service. That is why I believe that this issue also has its place in the topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u10	Mr President, I just want to clarify my request. As we are in a topical debate, I wanted to refer to my written question, otherwise my question might be lost. I would like to have the minister's answer in this debate. I would also like to take this opportunity to respond to the question raised by my colleague, Mrs Vindevoghel, who mentions union actions in Virton. I would like to point out that the PTB was not present and that it was a co-organisation between the socialist union and the Socialist Party in Virton.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Hanus, Mrs Vindevoghel, Mrs Rohonyi, Mr Troosters, Mr De Spiegeleer, Mr Arens, thank you for your questions. I will reiterate and update what has already been said in the discussions on this very important subject of the windows both in plenary and in committee. I confirm that the Board of Directors of SNCB of 27 November 2020 decided to close 44 counters on the basis of the finding of a significant decrease in the volume of tickets sold at these counters. These 44 points of sale that will be progressively closed represent 5.6% of the total number of transactions at the counters in 2019 out of a total of 135 points of sale and have a time of inactivity, informs me the SNCB, located between 60 and 92%. The decision of the Board of Directors of SNCB also concerned the change in opening hours at 37 points of sale from 1 March 2021. This was also announced in the SNCB communication of 1 February. Those adjustments shall be justified on the basis of the passenger flow at those points of sale. As a reminder, I have requested and obtained from the Board of Directors of SNCB additional accompanying measures, with clear commitments on comfort, safety and accessibility to meet the legitimate expectations of travellers who experience a reduction in the services offered at the station with the closures of windows or the reductions in their hours of operation. [[I have asked SNCB for a monthly report on the following additional measures: the organisation of a dialogue with associations representing fragile and elderly audiences on the issue of their accessibility to rail services, the guarantee of a sales machine at each station, the possibility of calling a SNCB employee for information until they have the possibility of being accompanied remotely for the purchase of a ticket and its impression, the organisation of a mobile reinforcement for specific periods and events such as school year, holidays or festivals, the study of the possibility of offering by the call centre or with partnerships with bpost or other public services services which are currently offered only at the counter, the possibility of integrating into the call to the market to be launched during this year for the deployment of a new sales machine user-friendly modalities to come into direct contact with an operator to receive appropriate assistance.]] Furthermore, at my request, SNCB has undertaken to contact all the municipal authorities affected by the closure of a window in their territory. That has been done. At this stage, 42 of the 44 municipalities concerned have resumed contact with SNCB. 25 have already been visited. All will be by the end of March. Many ideas about the future occupation of the buildings have been formulated: info-tourism, bike point, co-working, local ASBL, bpost premises, OXFAM stores. In addition, SNCB has received spontaneous applications from various external organizations to propose projects at the station. As agreed with SNCB, these specific accompanying measures are put in place as a matter of priority for the 44 stations concerned by a window closure. It is anticipated that these approaches will be extended to other stations, both those that have already experienced window closures and those that are currently experiencing a reduction in window hours. This will be done after evaluation of the results obtained for the first 44 stations. I must not remind you of the commitments to maintain and extend the opening hours of the waiting rooms. Finally, I intend to make every effort to include in the future public service contract of SNCB concrete obligations concerning reception and service to passengers, on the understanding that the current management contract does not contain any obligation to that effect. There are currently no beacons in the SNCB management contract on this subject, which I regret. Mrs Hanus, with regard to the €7 surcharge when buying a ticket on the train, we can both understand SNCB's fears that some travellers are getting on the train without a valid ticket by relying on not being checked. The €7 supplement plays a deterrent role. However, it may not be claimed by the attendant if the stop or station controller is defective with automatic signaling by SNCB to its attendants. I am aware of the difficulty that taking the train may represent for some people. I am currently working on improving the accessibility of trains and stations. We have already discussed it. I recently met with the Wallonia Accessibility Collective Brussels and the National Higher Council of Disabled Persons with whom we had the opportunity to discuss this important issue and to identify priorities in this area. In the discussions we have with SNCB, this question frequently comes back to my initiative, and we insisted that SNCB be attentive to the recommendations made. As with station reception, we also intend to include accessibility obligations in the future public service contract between SNCB and the federal state. This needs to be even more attention for SNCB in the future. As far as the Marloie station is concerned, the SNCB informs me that the unoccupied time amounts to 67% on weekdays and 76% on Saturdays. Accordingly, it took the decision to adapt the opening hours from 1 March 2021. In concrete terms, the windows will remain open from 7 a.m. to 10.15 a.m. on weekdays and on Saturdays from 7.30 a.m. to 10.45 a.m. A station display with these adaptations has been planned since February 2021.45. A station display of this information had been planned since February 2021. Mr Toventers, SNCB is getting questions about the number of notes for certain products, between certain stations or at certain stations via many channels. These are clearly commercially sensitive data for each company on which SNCB does not communicate publicly. SNCB does, however, point out that it complies with its obligations to communicate its statistical and business data. She provides all the information, including the confidential, to her custody authority and the FPS Mobility anyway. Your question relates to many statistical elements. I therefore propose that you ask me a written question. Finally, the total savings for the 44 counters amount to more than EUR 6 million or about EUR 60 million for 10 years. Mrs Vindevoghel, I have indeed received and answered many motions from local authorities. I understand their disappointment. In the coming weeks and months, I intend to ensure that SNCB complies with its concrete commitments which we discussed in the previous committee. I repeated them back then. I have received representatives from the three trade unions in my cabinet and they have shared their views on this matter with me. Despite the difficult decision of the Board of Directors of SNCB, these were constructive discussions for the future. Mrs. Vindevoghel, the procedure for appointing the new directors of SNCB, as is the case for other federal public undertakings, is ongoing. It is expected to materialize in the coming weeks. If you wish, we will have the opportunity to discuss it again at that time. I am not answering Mrs Jadin's question because she is not present. Mr Arens, during my exciting meeting with the Association des Amis du rail Halanzy – I met all the associations active in the defence of rail in Flanders and Wallonia – the latter also asked me about a new salve of window closures in Arlon and Libramont. I did not announce the closure of these stations to the Friends of the Halanzy Rail. I do not think they have said that, contrary to what you said on the occasion of your question. I will tell you what I said to them at our meeting, namely that such a project is not on the agenda. With regard to your question about a recent communiqué from Shuttles.be of which I have also read, the testimonies gathered are, to say the least, intriguing. I have asked SNCB about the reality of the practices described by Shuttles.be. SNCB told me that stewards can be present at large stations. In case of important lines at the counters, they may suggest that travellers use a sales machine, but the traveller always keeps his or her free choice. Under no circumstances do they prevent them from going to a ticket office. One of the stewards' missions is to help travellers, who are not used to automatons, become familiar with them. I understand that this remains the case. And it was in this sense that I responded to the inquiry of Shuttles.be. Mr De Spiegeleer, the desks at Burst station have been closed for a long time. The station building is one of the buildings or sites that SNCB no longer needs. SNCB is currently examining whether it wishes to maintain the building in the context of possible future developments, including the extension of the parking and bicycle storage, a bicycle highway and platform diversion. A possible concession is also an option open to SNCB. No bilateral consultations have yet been held between the municipality and SNCB on this matter. Of course, SNCB is open to such consultation. SNCB was not allowed to receive an application from the transport region. Such talks with the transport region have not yet been held, but SNCB tells me to be open to consultation. There is already regular consultation with the Flemish administration Mobility and Public Works or MOW.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u12	Mr Minister, unfortunately your answer did not provide much food for me. Apart from your answer on the savings made, I have not received a reply to almost any of my questions. As far as the figures for the Limburg stations are concerned, I have already indicated that I will request them in writing. I assume that will show a reduction in the number of tickets sold, which, as you say, would justify the limitation of opening hours. With regard to the possibility through Article 162nions of the 1991 Act, you refer to the oral questions that were raised earlier. I regret that and believe that you have missed an opportunity and that you are hiding. You have responded extensively in the press, but you have had opportunities that you have certainly not used, which I regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u13	Minister, you gave me a lot of hope for mobility when you became Minister for SNCB. And I must, alas, note that no break-up occurred in rural areas with the previous government's policy. I'm still worried, therefore. You're supposed to be the Minister of Mobility, we could even say: the first commuter in this country. Yet you already have to close 44 counters and further reductions in counter schedules to your "assets". For me, a quality public service is largely linked to the people who support these stations. However, I have the impression that, in your deployment mission on the railway, you are forgetting the human. However, without service to commuters, we may reduce SNCB and fail to meet our environmental objectives. In your reply to today's question, you confirm to me the reduction of the timetable at Marloie station. As for my proposal to delete the €7 surcharge, I hear the fear that you share with SNCB that commuters will ride without a ticket. However, in rural areas, and I would like to quote the Marbehan station as an example, only one machine is present for the purchase of tickets. However, whether it is on Sunday evenings for students or on weekday mornings for workers, there is a real influx of travellers who have no choice but to line up in front of this unique device. How will you respond to the reduction in service to the public with the removal of windows? I'm still hungry, Mr. Minister. Yet, and I want to tell you in committee, I gave you your chance. I believe in your willingness to develop mobility. Unfortunately, whenever I ask you questions from my constituency – the province of Luxembourg – I have to go back to my local relays to provide them with negative or uncertain news. That's too bad!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u14	Mrs Vindevoghel, you have the floor for your reply, with or without a geographical overview.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u15	Mr President, it will be without a geographical overview. Mrs Hanus, allow me to inform you to correct that I was not talking about us in relation to Virton, but about the trade unions. Minister, when you hear all this protest, when you, as a democratic minister, attach great importance to mobility, I think you should be more aware of that. We believe that keeping the points of contact open is of social importance. We have had a lot of discussions about this here. The opening of a shop in a station does not necessarily improve the service for the people. We have already given sufficient arguments. The activists also show that the staff who are now staffing the counters are very important and bring added value. A public service doesn't exist for profit-making purposes, does it? A public service provides services to the people who use it. That must be the essence of the matter. You did not answer my question about the mandates, but I could already read about them in the newspaper. Now that your party is chairing the board of directors, that may offer more opportunities. I hope that you will take more courageous measures in favour of the users of the train and the staff. After all, a staff group is in danger of losing its job. I do not think that the resistance will stop as long as the windows are closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u16	Minister, I think you've made a mistake in your answer about closing the stations. I never mentioned the closure of stations in my question. I've been talking about closing Arlon and Libramont's counters. The fear of the Friends of the Halanzy Rail, to make it clear, is real, since they told me about several waves: a first wave, a second wave, a third wave. For the virus, there are apparently vaccines. But I feel like you have no vaccine here, Mr. Gilkinet! Our objective is, in a province such as the province of Luxembourg, to maintain a public service that must remain a service to the public. It's fundamental. But here, it is not surprising if tomorrow no one takes the train, since we do everything to dissuade people from taking the train. I really find that a pity. As for my second question, the agents who would be at the stations, I think that if that is correct, you cannot let SNCB continue to play that way. It's outrageous! You're an environmental minister. I'm really counting on you. I agree with my colleague Mélissa Hanus. Like her, I had put a lot of money on your arrival in this matter. Today, after six months, I think that many things have already changed, but unfortunately, minister, unfavorably. I'm really sad about that. I'm counting on you to straighten the bar.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers, although you have only repeated the measures to accompany this decision to close 44 railway stations. These answers confirm to me that these measures are based on the municipalities which, today, are desperately seeking to limit the break and to develop measures to help commuters and to ensure their safety; or they are insufficient measures to compensate for the abolition of these windows and their added value in terms of local public service. A transition period has been planned, except that it does not change it. Today, leaving a window two or three days a week or putting in a stewardship to help people who use automatons one or two hours a day, as has been the case since March 1, is largely insufficient. I would therefore like to reiterate my request to review the list of outlets to be closed by the end of this year, in any case by means of a study which is carried out outside the context of the health crisis, where it is known that telework is compulsory or that the courses are suspended, and pending the suspension of this decision. I take the example of my station in Rhode-Saint-Genesis which is concerned. It was considered to be weakly frequented, whereas in normal times it is enormously frequented. I am thinking of the commuters who go to Brussels to work. I am thinking of the students who have to go to Brussels to go to school or university. I am thinking of patients who go to Brussels for examinations or treatments in specialised hospitals. It's an incomprehension about this station. I still have to express my concern when you say that these accompanying measures will be extended to stations where their flow of passengers is decreasing. Does this mean that these stations will also be closed in the near future? Would it not be wiser to first assess these measures and their impact on the 44 stations concerned before deciding on their extension to other stations? In the longer term, you intend to include in SNCB's next public service contract – which will be concluded next year – the objective of making our stations more alive, more comfortable, more accessible. That is very good, except that this will have to be translated into action in line with this objective, because today we have to see that we are still not there!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answers. A few things stand out to me. For example, you say quite clearly that SNCB no longer needs the Burst station building. That is, of course, disappointing and rather derogatory. The building on line 89 between Denderleeuw, Zottegem and Kortrijk, counts more than 1,000 travellers a day. It is also at the crossroads with the regional connection to Aalst, the line 82. The building itself is also very recent according to government standards. It dates back to 1984. That is the start of the renovation work at the Brussels Palace of Justice. So it's a very recent building with a lot of possibilities. Then you say that they are working on a bike highway. That's right. The works are moving well. Then we come back to last week's discussion at the hearing with Infrabel. Those bike highways don't come without hitting and Infrabel asks for something like in place for the closing of consideration. I almost fell off my seat, Minister, because you say that SNCB is working on extending station parking. I am certainly not against that, but if there is a station in this region where there is no lack of parking, then that is Burst station. If there are any more parking spaces, I'm certainly not against that. You also mentioned the improvement of the platforms. Our party has been asking for this for a long time. That promise was made a decade ago. We are in joyous expectation. Finally, you say that there has been no consultation with the local authorities and the mayor or ships of the municipality of Erpe-Mere, nor with the Aalst Transport Region. I would like to take your word for it, but in the regional media people say the opposite and say that they have been in contact with your cabinet and with the NBMS and that they have been hit on a njet, just as I have been hit on a njet here today. So your answers were remarkable, Minister. To be continued, no doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u19	I would once again like to thank Mr Roggeman for his replacement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u20	Mr President, Minister, you announced at the last committee meeting that you had an interesting answer to my question. So I'm looking forward to it. The question is essentially about the location of the speed pedals on the road. The rules on speed pedals are laid down in the Royal Decree of 1 October 2016, whereby the speed pedal is treated as a moped class B. There is a separate road sign, with a logo with a letter P underneath. With these custom road signs and underboards, the road managers can deviate from the moped rules when it comes to the place on the road. In practice, however, few of these signs have been adapted. I am thinking, for example, of interesting routes for such vehicles along canals and rivers. It would actually have been much easier if the speed pedelec in terms of place on the road would just be equal to the bike. I have put this on several occasions with your predecessor, but the situation is now what it is. At the moment, a regular bicycle path is marked with a D7 traffic sign as part of the public road. The D7 traffic sign, so the round, blue sign with the bike logo on it, can actually not be used today for free-standing bike paths, such as bike highways. However, the D7 traffic sign on bicycle motorways would be a way of giving pedestrians access to those routes, provided that they give priority to cyclists. Is this being discussed in the context of the road code reform? For example, the D7 traffic sign can also be used for such cycling routes. When drawing up the new road code, particular attention must be paid to how this is best described and how everyone can have their place on the road. There is a proposal to make the place on the road also dependent on speed. In certain places the speed can be reduced, also on bicycle paths, for example within the built-up area, as is regulated in the Netherlands today. That could solve the problem of a speedpick user who first wants to take his son to school and then wants to drive to work, but not drive on the bike path within the built-up area. Some municipalities have worked it out this way. Cycling paths in built-up areas marked with a sign D9 or D10 are also not accessible to those speed pedal users, which basically means that they have to drive between the cars, while the son should drive only on the bike path. So these are not ideal situations. Of course, speed policy is a competence of the Regions, but that is clearly also relevant to the other traffic rules and must, of course, be considered in conjunction with other provisions within the road code. Are the road code adjustments being considered to make any adjustments to the road code? Have there been any ideas on this? Finally, there is the problem with the location on the road of the speedpedelec. I already indicated that this comes from the categorization as a moped, as a form of moped. That was a European decision. Previously we indicated that we would better compare the speed pedal to a bike. Cycling Council also advises that the speedpedelec is equal to the normal bicycle in the traffic regulation. This would give speedpedelec immediate access to restricted one-way traffic, pedestrian zones, zones with D10 signs and reserved roads, without the need for a separate letter P. It would simplify things a lot to work in that way. Mr. Secretary, are you considering following the advice of Fietssberaad? Will you tie the speed pedal with the bike in terms of place on the road in traffic? Can you provide us with the latest figures on the number of registered speed pedals, possibly in writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u21	Mr President, Minister, it is no surprise that I agree with this question. Speed pedelecs are becoming increasingly popular. In the past year, according to experts, we see a nod in growth, but I think that can be explained by the fact that speed pedals are mainly used for commuting and we recommend working at home at the moment. I should not dwell on the fact that sometimes it is not clear where the speed pedal belongs within the road code. We feel that she is often treated stepmotherly. Mr Van den Bergh has already described how the moped is registered in the road code and that it is not always clear to a person using a speed pedal where he belongs on the road and how he should follow what road code. I agree with one of the conclusions, or even with the Fietsberaad proposal: it would be more logical to treat the speed pedal as a bike. In the end, he is. However, it is important to link certain conditions to these conditions, where the speed pedal has to adapt in certain circumstances, for example in terms of speed. It's got to be simpler. Are you in favour of simplifying the rules related to speedpedelecs in the road code? If so, will you follow the proposal to treat the speed pedal as a bike? Has this been discussed with the regions in the context of the new road code? If so, do you feel that your colleagues from the Regions are on the same page?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u22	Minister, Vias Institute recently published a study on increasing the number of users of electric bicycles. According to the study, 1 in 5 Belgians used one last year. That's good, but not enough. We could call for an increase in this number of users. According to the study, the presence of free car parks near railway stations would be an effective measure to encourage their use and reduce road traffic to reach railway stations. Investments in better cycling infrastructure are also supported by a large majority of the panel. I would also like to recall your commitment to improving the multimodal nature of the stations in your policy note. Minister, how do you welcome these observations made by Vias? Are there special conditions for a station to be able to obtain a secure parking space for bicycles, for example, the number of creeks currently occupied? What are the objectives for this secure parking rate and free parking? Do these thoughts on parking include bicycles of larger gauges? Is there any discussion with other levels of authority about cycling routes to improve or create tracks to reach the stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u23	Mr President, thank you all for the questions. Mr Van den Bergh, Belgium is about the only country that has developed a tailor-made scheme for electric bicycles. The number of speed pedals registered in Belgium is an indication of this. I will also give you figures later, in response to Mrs Buyst's question. Of course, you can always discuss whether it would have been better to opt for a complete alignment with the bike and to ban speed pedals in certain places instead of having to allow them with the help of signalization. That was a choice from the past. In consultation with the Regions, the current system was finally chosen, which amounts to the same but also allows road managers to judge where speedpedelecs can be safely admitted. A complete tie-up has not been discussed so far, because speedpedelecs require specific rules in any case. The signs D7 indicate an obligation. For a bike highway, as far as I can tell, it will never be an obligation. The use of a D7 sign to indicate a reserved road is therefore not the best option. The F99 board is better suited for this purpose and offers flexibility to road managers. It can be adapted to the categories of road users that one wants to allow. For example, access to cycle motorways can be limited to cyclists and speed pedals. This has not yet been addressed in the context of discussions on the revision of the road code. If pedestrians are allowed, they remain the most vulnerable road users and deserve protection. To improve their safety, a road marking can be placed that separates cyclists and speed pedal drivers from pedestrians and can be clarified on the road sign F99. Making the place on the road dependent on the speed doesn't seem like a bad option. Because speed on bicycle paths is indeed a regional competence, it was only dealt with side by side during the discussion of the working group. The initiative will have to come from the regions in the light of the latest state reform. As a response to your parliamentary question of 19 January 2021, a project is under way to analyse the road code with a view to promoting active road users. I assume that, in the context of discussions with the regions to be conducted in this context, the speed on bicycle paths will also be covered. As I said in the introduction to my reply, the current rules have been drawn up in close consultation with the Regions. I understand your wish that speed pedals are better assimilated with bicycles and there are certainly cases where that can be useful. Mrs Buyst, Mr Van den Bergh, it is useful to objectify the situation a little. In fact, the situation is far from catastrophic. Belgium, together with Switzerland, is the country where speedpedelecs are the most successful. The total number of registered speed pedals, 42.149, with a steady growth of 12.191 new bids in 2020, indicates that the craze of this means of transport is real in our country. For comparison, in the cycling country of the Netherlands there are currently just under 22,000 speed pedals registered. Even European associations praise the Belgian approach and promote it as an example for other countries. The reason is that in 2016 Belgian regulations included speedpedelecs and other electric bicycles in the traffic regulations. The aim was to strike the best possible balance between safety and the promotion of two-wheel mobility. However, I understand that there are several questions to equate speed pedals with classic bikes. I'll talk to my administration about that. I also asked her to review this issue with the Regions and stakeholders, such as Fietssberaad, which I recently met. I just want to make sure that everyone is aware that the equivalence of speed pedals with classic bicycles or other electric bicycles can also cause some problems, such as the coexistence of people with very different profiles on the bicycle infrastructure. I will now reply to Mr. Parent concerning the parking lot. Most of the two-wheeled car parks offered for SNCB are free of charge; I have already spoken about them in response to other questions. SNCB is well aware of the evolution of the use of electric bicycles. She is currently working on changing her bike parking strategy in this direction. There are currently nearly 40 SNCB two-wheeled car parks equipped with access control. Most are managed by bicycle points with different access control systems. SNCB has decided to standardize the access control system and link it to the train product via the Mobib card. The two-wheeled car parks with access control will also have in future electric charging facilities. Following the evolution of the use of the two-wheeler and in particular electric bicycles, the SNCB is reviewing its criteria so that a station can be equipped with a secure two-wheeler parking space, including for larger bicycles. On the tariff side, different models are being studied. Currently, the average price is 75 euros for an annual subscription for a car park with access control. Most are free but without access control. The SNCB is studying the possibility of offering a maximum of 24 hours free of charge in two-wheeled car parks, which corresponds to the needs of the vast majority of customers and which effectively fights abandoned bicycles which can sometimes account for up to 30% of the capacity of the two-wheeled car park. Today, it is the benefits of car parking revenues that finance the operating costs of two-wheeled car parks and the financing of bicycle points. Having bicycle parking with access control is one of the four priorities for customers, according to a 2019 study. Although the equipment of SNCB's bicycle car parks is important, their success depends on the infrastructure that allows cyclists to reach the stations. This message is regularly given to the various levels of power. As you know, I regularly organize meetings with my regional mobility colleagues to consult and try to align us. The issue of cycling policies, although largely regionalised today, is regularly discussed. I hope very fast decisions for cyclists and active mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u24	Thank you very much, Minister, for your detailed answer. I think we can call it that. I then turn to the speakers for their reactions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u25	Thank you, Minister. Of course, the user of a speed pedal is not an ordinary cyclist, and the fact that the regulations require him to wear a helmet and have a license plate shows that. Due to the characteristics of the vehicle and the way in which the speed pedal user travels through traffic, he is much more regarded as a cyclist than a moped cyclist. In this sense, he is also regarded as such by car drivers and it would be a good thing for him to take that place on the road. However, there are sometimes conflicts between speed-driving cyclists and speed pedals, but that may as well be cyclists, and slower cyclists. In this respect, we must try to move towards a desired behavior. There is still work to be done in this area. A maximum speed on bicycle paths could contribute to this. In this sense, I support your view, which you have said you raised during the consultation, and your wish to investigate further. That would certainly not be a bad thing. Also for the other traffic rules it would be interesting to consider the speed pedal user as a cyclist, for example in streets with limited one-way traffic. Subject to custom behavior, the speed pedelec user can also make use of these advantages. It would only promote the user's place in our traffic system. That is what I would like to call for.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. It is precisely because of the steady growth in the number of speed pedals that we need to make our road image more readable and that our traffic regulations are not more difficult, but just easier. Additional traffic signs or additional exceptions will certainly not contribute to this. We are talking today about speed pedelec, but technology and innovative ideas will continue to come and we will always have to think about where to place new means of transport in our public space. That is why I was very pleased with your answer, but certainly with one passage in particular. You want the road code also analysed taking into account the active road users. I think that has happened too little in the past. As far as the road code is concerned, I think we still too often rely on an old vision in which we give car space in our public space. We must dare to think about how to redistribute public space and provide sufficient space for active road users. I see in the road code a way to do that. I am therefore looking forward to a review of the road code, with more attention being paid to active road users.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers and for the testimony of the SNCB strategy that will be revised on the bike, with additional ambitions for the bike-train combination. I think all the questions I have asked have been answered in a committed and positive way, whether for large bikes or for reloads. We will, of course, follow this subject carefully. We believe that the combination of train and bike is extremely important in relation to the modal shift, but also in order to reduce congestion in cities and fluidize our movements, whether in the city or in the countryside. I welcome the various answers that have been given.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u28	Minister, I would like to come back to the single rate that came into effect on February 1, 2021. As you mentioned in a recent interview, the introduction of a single tariff for public transport around Brussels had been decided in 1998. However, it took more than 20 years and the joint determination of Minister Bellot and the Chair of the RER Steering Committee, Mr Hansen, to finally see this single tariff come into being. We welcome this great step forward, but as you say very well, this is a first step towards a single pricing for increasingly larger tariff zones so that, in the long run, these areas can cover the whole RER network. Everyone wants it, of course, too, but when? It is here, Mr. Minister, that I wish to question you. In your joint interview, Mr Hansen told the press about the enlargement of these tariff zones that "on this issue, we are nowhere". Only, Minister, can we not content ourselves with that answer. We need a single tariff as quickly as possible for 124 and 161 lines in Walloon Brabant. Indeed, you are aware that the Brussels-Capital Region is currently taking a series of measures to divert commuters from their vehicles. I will not interfere with the substance of this case. In any event, it is therefore not conceivable to let all the inhabitants of Walloon Brabant face high transport rates, sometimes having to combine several subscriptions to travel and travel to the capital. That is why, Minister, I would ask you to provide us, as soon as possible, with a timetable for the expansion or at least the progress of your work with the stakeholders, of these single-rate zones for lines 124 and 161 in Walloon Brabant.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u29	Mr Scourneau, thank you and I am indeed delighted to have finally crossed this important stage since 1 February with my fellow Ministers for Mobility and with the four transport companies. With one ticket, we can now travel in and around Brussels on the public transport of our choice (the train, the bus, the tram or the metro) for a single fare with one and the same ticket. It is a small revolution and an important step to make mobility a freedom. As a reminder and without rewriting the story, in September 2009, for lack of fighters, the Chair of the RER Steering Committee suspended the work of the RER Steering Committee, which no longer met before the new federal government was put in place. The reason for the blockage was the non-designation of representatives after the elections, especially since the federal elections. When I took up my duties, not only had the Steering Committee no longer met, but the case concerning the application of the single tariff zone within a radius of 11.5 km around the Grand Place in Brussels was blocked. I quickly contacted my regional colleagues to resume the work of this Steering Committee and to finalize this issue of tariff integration. I am pleased that we have been able to align ourselves with the four mobility ministers and that we have been able to convince the four public transport companies to move forward in this direction and to conclude the test. My three colleagues and I have asked the RER Steering Committee, which is still chaired by Mr Hansen, that I have decided to rename it, on the one hand, to manage the establishment of the Brupass with the aim of showing that it works and that it is beneficial for users and for their mobility, and, on the other hand, to start thinking about the conditions for extending it to a wider area. This issue has been addressed during the last two meetings of the Steering Committee, but it is still far too early to risk a precise announcement as to the area of this extension and the date of its implementation. The first tariff integration has just been assessed and the four governments and transport companies have been kept in line with this objective expected by many Belgians, as well as the practical arrangements for achieving it, in particular in terms of revenue sharing or taking care of possible losses, which is not so obvious. It is an exciting and important issue to allow travellers to travel all over Belgium with a single card and the most consistent rates possible. This is a case for which I look forward to your support, Mr. Scourneau.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u30	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer. I hope that the extension will go in the broadest possible way for an enhanced service to public transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u31	Minister, in your policy statement of 12 November last, you made the sad observation that some sections of our rail network are in a pitiful state. I quote: "Integer parts of the network suffer from a delay in investment. Some railway lines are even in critical condition, to the point that traffic must be slowed down or even eliminated for safety reasons." So we all know that the financing of the rail network is complicated, that it depends on a key for distribution between Flanders and Wallonia, and that in the past, far too much money has been invested in important works such as the stations of Mons and Liège-Guillemins, rather than in the modernisation of the network itself. But this is not the subject of my intervention. Have you ever commissioned a study to identify these lines? If so, can we know the results? Or when are these expected? If not, can you request one, specifying for each line the sections to be redone and a detailed estimate of the cost of repairing each line?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u32	Mr Scourneau, I confirm to you that the findings of an external audit on the state and policies of maintenance of the network show that the investments made remain generally insufficient in relation to the actual needs of maintaining capacity at the present time and of the necessary renewal of certain infrastructures, particularly in relation to the slowdowns in progress. It is sufficient to consult the reports of the Mobility Committee to hear colleagues from different parties in the country complaining correctly. This audit, on which I base myself and which I cited as part of my policy brief, commissioned by my predecessor in September 2017, highlights the need for a fiscal catch-up due to the aging of the network, which is mandatory in order to maintain the current operating capacity of the entire network. SNCB has too often been a variable for budgetary adjustment and necessary investments have been carried over too long to cover expenditure which was not justified and so important for the commuter, which is at the centre of my policies. In view of the past disinvestment and my ambition for Belgian rail, I fight every day to obtain additional resources, be it at Belgian or European level, in order to be able to strengthen the network and possibly extend it, as far as its electrification is concerned, so that it is efficient and accessible. Here too, Mr. Scourneau, I am delighted to be able to count on your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u33	Thank you, Minister. I did not have an answer to the detailed study on the lines that are failing. I guess we'll have more information later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u34	Minister, on December 2, 2020, I was asking you about the appointment, without procedure, of the new Financial Director of SNCB. You told me that this decision was adopted unanimously by the board of directors, inviting me to address the directors and the chairman of the board of directors, who came from my political background. You also told me that I could have access to the minutes of the meeting on 30 October, when this item was on the agenda. I contacted both the directors and the CEO, Mrs. Dutordoir. That gave me access to the famous minutes. The devil often hides in detail and I did well not to believe you on word. It appears that an administrator did not take and could not take part in this vote. As the Board of Directors held online via the TEAMS application, connection problems prevented it from attending the first point of the meeting, precisely that of the appointment concerned. After the decision had been taken in a few minutes, she joined the meeting once this matter had been resolved. She contacted the Chairman of the Board of Directors at the end of the meeting to make it clear, while informing him that she would not have voted in favour of the appointment. The unanimity you were talking about therefore concerns only those members who may have been present. What else do we see in this Minutes? It shows that the President had informed you beforehand of this appointment and that he had received your approval. I read the e-mail sent to him by your Chief of Staff on 29 October, the day before the meeting: "The Minister has been informed of the proposal of the Deputy Administrator and does not see any contraindication, since it is in accordance with the law. The designation procedure may proceed as provided for in the said Act. I would point out that this case is in no way a precedent." This is a clear sign of your support, as you accused me on December 2 of a trial of intent against you by taking your stand behind the legal decision of the board of directors. Minister, what exactly do you mean when you say in writing in your Chief of Staff's e-mail that "this case will not be a precedent"? This sentence seems to show an embarrassment in this case. Have you therefore considered not accepting this appointment? In concrete terms, could such an appointment to the rescue at a virtual meeting via TEAMS, without any call for applications, without any procedure, without assessment, still occur? Do you think we need to change the law in force?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u35	Minister, like the point of contact, this issue seems to be a follow-up. I was surprised that Mr Renaud Lorand was appointed as the financial director of SNCB very quickly, at two or three days, after the resignation of Olivier Henin, who had been appointed after an extensive selection procedure by the selection agency Russell Reynolds. The fact that that method was apparently abandoned this time, I find strange. Questions were asked about this at a previous committee meeting. In addition, the story was told here as if it were a unanimous decision. Now it appears that at least the word can be called into question unanimously, as one person has not been able to vote. That one person has subsequently indicated, so we may conclude, not even to support the decision made. In my view, therefore, there is no unanimity. So it doesn't make any sense. Mr. Secretary, it seems that you have given your approval to the appointment. Legally, it may be fine, but I do wonder how you stand with regard to a public selection procedure. Wouldn't you prefer a public procedure rather than an internal regulation? A public procedure seems to me to be more appropriate for the sake of public administration and for the sake of the qualifications of the elected candidate. That is why I am asking for further clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u36	Minister, ladies and gentlemen have already explained the situation. Mr Lorand was appointed as the new financial director of SNCB on 1 January. He is the former Head of the Cabinet of Paul Magnette and Jean-Claude Marcourt. He was appointed without prior external selection procedure. According to your previous answers in our committee, the appointment was unanimous. Mr Minister, how do you explain that, in order to succeed Mr Henin, who was selected by an external selection agency, an ex-cabtard was this time appointed without prior procedure? By whom exactly was that candidate nominated to the board of directors? What other applications has the Management Board considered? Are you a supervisory minister in favour or against political appointments to autonomous public companies? Do you consider political appointments to be a sensible practice? Do you believe that the selection of director positions at SNCB is sufficiently objective? Do you maintain your view that the appointment of Mr Lorand by the Management Board was decided unanimously? According to SNCB's own communication, Mr Lorand's choice was motivated by his knowledge of the liberalisation of the railways. How will he, as a CFO, shape that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. As prescribed by the Act of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises, it is for the board of directors of an autonomous public undertaking to appoint or revoke the members of its management committee. This is also the case for SNCB. Since the company faces major challenges, including financial ones, on the one hand because of the corona crisis and, on the other hand, because of the major mobility challenges identified in the coalition agreement, the managing director, Mrs Dutordoir, felt that the role of CFO had to be quickly fulfilled in order to ensure the stability and continuity of the company. Mrs Dutordoir informed me about the context and her vision during one of our bilateral exchanges. Subsequently, on 30 October, the Director-General requested the appointment and remuneration committee to give its opinion on the reasoned proposal for the replacement of the Director-General for Finance. The Committee gave a favourable opinion. The Management Board, with the unanimity of the members present, then agreed to the proposal of the delegate director to appoint the proposed internal candidate, Renaud Lorand, who was already director of SNCB. It is up to us, in response to Mr. De Maegd, whom an administrator could not connect, which did not allow him to vote. Accordingly, the Administrator communicated ex post that she would not have voted in favour. Of which act! What I replied to you in December was very much about the unanimity of the present. Above all, this procedure is perfectly legal and has taken place in compliance with the rules applicable within the SNCB public undertaking. All the prescribed steps have been formally completed: the delegate's proposal, the opinion of the remuneration committee and the vote of the board of directors where the parties of the outgoing majority were represented. With regard to your question on the concept of "preceding", the dictionary indicates that this means "taking an action that is out of the ordinary and which will serve as a possible justification for other similar actions". So when you say "don't act as a precedent," it's the other way around. I therefore confirm that the manner in which the current SNCB COO was appointed will not serve as a possible justification for further appointments in the future. Each appointment must be judged on the basis of criteria such as the circumstances of the time, the urgency, and whether or not there are suitable candidates in-house at SNCB. To answer your last question, Mr De Maegd, the amendment to the 1991 Act is not included in the government agreement and has not been discussed at this stage in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Be a good count! You said to me in a very authoritarian way: "I absolutely do not accept that you question my word", when we talked about unanimity. Again today, you say that you replied to me at the time that it was unanimous among the members present. I take the text of your reply last time. That is not correct, unfortunately, I have to tell you. "I do not see how, as a minister, I would say that there was unanimity – punt aan de lijn – when it would not exist." There was no mention of "unanimity of the members present", contrary to what you say to me today in committee. Anyway! We're not going to make it a pataquès. However, this is the nature of the democratic debate and the necessary control of the government's action, Minister. The accuracy of the facts is what the citizen and the devil are entitled to, as I say, often hide in detail. My research, in the file, I recall, has led to two undeniable facts. First, it's in the C.A.'s P.V. Contrary to what you said to me, there was not unanimity among all the directors; one of them was not able, I repeat, to vote for technical problems and he would not have endorsed that decision. We are still talking about a post of over 215,000 euros gross per year, which is more than one company, as you pointed out, Minister, whose financial challenges are simply enormous. Then for the other fact, I obtained this e-mail which shows, contrary to what you said in committee, that you were not only informed but that you had validated the decision, "not seeing any contraindications there". Further on, you specify that this file has no precedent value. I have a dictionary in my office and I confirm your definition of the word "previous," minister. It makes me smile. Of which act! In my view, good governance must be more than a slogan. That is why I am currently working on a bill to ensure that every appointment to the various management positions of the SNCB is made through an assessment procedure, in a transparent manner, by initiating a call for applications. I assume and hope to get your group's support in this process of attaching the act to the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u39	Minister, it strikes me that two partners from your government are apparently not quite in line. As far as the debate on unanimity is concerned, I believe that the honourable Member on the left is certainly right on his side. After all, there was clearly no unanimity, contrary to what was claimed. What you're hiding behind must be legal, because you have the authority and you've given your approval. You then referred to the major and urgent challenges. However, these major challenges faced by SNCB must be just one reason for double caution in the selection process. That should be precisely a reason not to do what has happened, but to organise a public selection procedure with strict conditions. Those concerned must clearly demonstrate the qualifications necessary to fulfil that function. However, this has not happened at all. As far as Flemish Interest is concerned, the wrong choice has been made here. They have chosen to secure a political appointment and a petite committee. That's what happened here. I would like to touch on the definition of the word precedent. After all, you said that every appointment is on its own and that appointments will always have to be viewed in the future. Actually, that makes me feel stuffy. I'm afraid there'll be random work. People will see how they do it in the future. For one function something may be set aside, while for another function a procedure may be followed. It is striking to note that this is how we will work. We cannot approve such a method, because it really belongs to the old political culture.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u40	Minister, I would like to thank you for the answers to my questions, but unfortunately I have hardly heard any answers. So I haven't heard about the other applications considered by the board of directors. I have also asked you a lot of questions about your position as Minister. I didn't get an answer to that either. You have explained in detail the position of the delegated director here, but, with all due respect, if we want her position, we will ask her for it ourselves. Questions were asked about your position as a supervisory minister, but we did not receive an answer. You stayed on the plain. However, you explicitly said that you were involved in the decision-making procedure by the delegate director. She has consulted you on this, and I suspect that you, as a minister, have taken a certain position on it, but Parliament should not know that. You are right that the appointment itself is the responsibility of the board of directors, but it is of course your competence, as a supervisory minister, to question any decisions of the board of directors. You have done so very vibrantly and emphatically in the point of contact, but in this case you have not done so and you remain firmly on the ground. That is all the more striking, since you were very vocal and very offensive in the opposition in the previous legislature when it came to political appointments. This is the second most important function for SNCB, but there is no procedure and zero objectivity. However, there are the right political color and political connections. I still have some sense that the political world appoints the board of directors, because it is a public body, but that does not apply at all to executive functions, which must be clearly based on competences. The Michel administration understood that. You are turning back the clock at that point. In fact, while you were very strongly opposed to political appointments in the previous legislature, you are now actively cooperating with them, and you do not even think it is necessary to go through objective procedures. It is a step backwards in terms of good management and objective appointments of mandate holders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u41	Minister, on 9 March 2017, just over four years ago, this Chamber adopted a resolution calling for the creation of Train Points. It concerns document No. 542125. The resolution was adopted by a large majority. The resolution called for the creation of an alternative physical sales network for SNCB, comparable to bpost, which has successfully established postal points outside its own post offices. The resolution also called for sales to be allowed in external locations such as newspaper shops. There are many foreign cities where you can get tickets for bus or metro in newspaper kiosks. You were a Member of Parliament at the time. You then voted against this resolution. The position you took in the press last month was striking. You indicated that you were in favour of the sale of train tickets in external management. Mr Minister, are you in favour or opposed to the physical sale of SNCB's transport tickets by newspaper shops or other private networks? What will you do to implement that resolution on the establishment of train stations? Would you like to include it in the management contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u42	Mr President, Mr Roggeman has already outlined what we are talking about. A resolution proposal was adopted in the Chamber in 2017 calling for SNCB to extend its ticket sales network. In recent years, the physical sale of train tickets to station counters has systematically deteriorated, a trend that continues. That is why we wanted to provide additional sales channels for train tickets. The resolution adopted at the time focuses on a creative interpretation of the many existing station buildings that are completely or partially empty. After all, emptying does not provide any added value for travellers. A business in an existing station building that sells a limited range of SNCB products in addition to purely commercial products and can open up the waiting area or sanitary facilities to travellers offers enormous added value for the traveller, the SNCB and the local trader. Mr. Secretary, I have some questions about that resolution. In what way does SNCB already respond to this resolution? What specific initiatives have already been taken? Are they a full alternative to closing the counters for you? What initiatives do you and SNCB intend to take to implement the principle in the resolution and not to wait for the new management agreement? Will you include the resolution in the text of the new management agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u43	I would like to refer to the debate on the points of contact, the points of sale and the completion of the station buildings, which we had a few weeks ago and today. Many elements of this resolution have been addressed. I am thinking, for example, of the commitment of SNCB and myself to conclude a new ambitious public service contract in the course of 2022, including the services to be provided in the stations. What steps are being taken this year? SNCB is already investigating the possibility of offering a number of products through the call centre, in cooperation with bpost and other public services or private companies. We await an answer from the contacted institutions. For the stations where the counters will close this year, SNCB is already in contact with the municipalities concerned in order to establish cooperations that maintain a human presence in the stations concerned. Each municipality has received a specific contact person from SNCB for this purpose. Those contacts are ongoing. The priority now is to launch a call for projects adapted to the local context and taking into account the state and potential of each station. In the context of the development of non-profit-making activities, it should be possible to make space available on terms corresponding to actual management and operating costs. That's important. SNCB will organise a permanent follow-up of these initiatives and will, on the basis of this experience, evaluate the opportunity and feasibility of extending that model to other stations, in particular those where the counters are already closed. We will try to include the best experience in the future public service contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u44	Mr Minister, I am glad that the question has already been put to Bpost to explore the possible cooperation with SNCB on this issue, but I would suggest that it should not be left to that end. There are plenty of potential partners, both in public and private retail sectors, which could offer a very interesting partnership for this. Pull those questions open a little bit. I would like to put this question to you specifically, because I know that SNCB was not a questioning party in the past. It would be a pity if they merely addressed their question to one body in particular and deliberately overlooked the rest of the economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed a good thing that opportunities are already being investigated. There are indeed a number of station buildings already empty. Why don't you take that chance? Offer a collaboration to local traders. This can be an added value for both the traveller and the SNCB and the local trader. Hopefully you'll keep looking for solutions for those empty station buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u46	Minister, For many years, Infrabel has been systematically abolishing consideration. Indeed, ground-level rail and road crossings would pose an important risk to accidents and would be costly to maintain. It is therefore logical that Infrabel chooses to eliminate as many ground-level rail crossings as possible. Railway crossings often also have an important local traffic function. The abolition of a crossing can therefore have a very large impact on the local residents and users. The result of an abolition can therefore be very far-reaching. I am thinking of long circular movements, the sudden physical separation of communities and even reduced road safety when vulnerable road users suddenly have to use a busy road rather than a abolished quieter road on a slow road. The net result on road safety from the abolition of road traffic can therefore be really negative. The decree on the municipal roads, adopted by the Flemish Parliament in 2019, clearly states that "anyone can build, modify, relocate or abolish a municipal road without the prior approval of the city council." In Wallonia there is also a similar regional decree on the municipal roads. The abolition of a road crossing on a municipal road must therefore always be done with the approval of the city council. However, it appears in practice that local authorities are often placed before fulfilled facts. Infrabel also states that it is not bound by the decree concerning the municipal roads. The railways, according to the law on the police of the railways, are one of the major roads. According to Infrabel, railway crossings are automatically part of this major road and are not covered by the regional decree on municipal roads. Last week we had a very interesting hearing on this, but I still have a number of questions for you, Minister. Should the procedure laid down in the decree on municipal roads be followed when removing a road crossing on a municipal road? Do you share the Infrabel lecture on the subject? Will you make agreements with Infrabel on how local authorities are involved in abolishing consideration on municipal roads? Do you see opportunities to use safe alternatives for weak road users for the existing ground-based crossings, in consultation with local authorities and Infrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u47	Mr Minister, according to Articles 11 and 12 of the Royal Decree of 11 July 2011, as Minister of Mobility, you are competent to take the decision to abolish a safety device from a road. From a ruling of the Council of State No. 27.299 of 7 January 1987 it appeared that the decision to close a road crossing may only be taken by the King, in other words in practice by you as Minister. In the past, the abolition of consideration was shaped by a fixed procedure. Infrabel had to submit an abolition project to the FPS Mobility, which had to be accompanied by an agreement in principle between the municipality and the road manager. A public investigation was then initiated. In more recent years, Infrabel closes consideration on its own authority, without any royal decision or ministerial decision being accompanied by it. According to the answer to a colleague's written question put in the past, Infrabel would be authorised to consider the possibility of an autonomous closure. Minister, what legislation did Infrabel authorize this? According to which law, royal decree or ministerial decree may Infrabel autonomously consider closing? I would have liked to have been given the right regulatory text with title and date, because I, as a Member of Parliament, regrettably cannot find it. Is the abolition procedure mentioned in Article 12 of the 2011 Royal Decree still in force? After all, it is still registered in the Royal Decree, but now seems to be out of line with reality. Why is there any deviation from that royal decision? On what legal basis does that happen? If the royal decree is still maintained according to the letter of the provisions, how can it be reconciled with the authorization to Infrabel? What role do you and the FPS Mobility still play in abolishing consideration? At a hearing on this matter last week in our committee, there was a very broad demand for the final decision and the power to close a railway crossing to be granted to an authority other than Infrabel. What is your view as a supervisory minister on that question? Do you think that the current procedure for abolishing consideration should be reviewed and improved?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u48	Mr Minister, as Mr Roggeman and Mr Verhaert pointed out, last week the problem was discussed in a very interesting hearing. Since my question is the transposition of a question submitted in writing in December, there will undoubtedly be some overlap with last week's discussion. However, your vision, your opinion and your answers as supervisory minister are extremely important in this respect. In the hearing we were able to determine the tension between the interest groups and Infrabel. First of all, what is your view on Infrabel's policy of reflection? Secondly, which authorities have you already consulted with or are you still planning consultations on the general problem, on the one hand, and concrete dossiers, on the other? I suspect you will not be able to list all the specific dossiers, but perhaps you can give me a written answer in this respect. Thirdly, did you, as a supervisory minister, already consult with civil society organisations or will you involve them in the consultation? What are the results, if any?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u49	Mrs Verhaert, Infrabel is indeed using the legal reading of the legislation you mentioned, a legal reading that my administration and the FPS Mobility share. However, Infrabel always tells us in practice to strive for an agreement with the city or the municipality. Infrabel will not abolish a crossing until there is an agreement. The abolition of a crossing has little chance of success if there is no support for the municipality and if it is not in line with the mobility plans of the municipalities or province. In addition, the adaptation or diversion of a municipal road in any case requires the agreement of the municipal council. To this end, an agreement in principle on abolition is initially requested at the College of Ships. During the building application procedure the advice and agreement will also be requested from the city council. Infrabel not only consults with the municipality, but also with other stakeholders, the province, the Roads and Traffic Agency and the emergency services. Infrabel also provides information markets where neighborhood residents are also questioned and informed. Mr Roggeman, the abolition of consideration is a matter for Infrabel, pursuant to Article 199 (1) of the Law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises. Article 12 of the Royal Decree of 11 July 2011 lays down the procedure for amending and abolishing the signalling on a road. So this is not about abolishing the road itself. Neither I nor the FPS Mobility and Transport play a role in the decision to abolish the road. The procedure for the abolition of consideration should be reviewed in a broader review of the regulation regarding consideration. Mr De Spiegeleer, I am very aware of the importance of the dossier. I have already underlined this with regard to your colleagues. I am therefore pleased that Infrabel itself points out the importance of the consultation and agreements with the local authorities. In order to deal with specific dossiers, Infrabel is involved not only in consultation with the municipalities but also with other stakeholders. I have already said this in an answer. Infrabel also provides information markets, in which neighborhood residents are also questioned and informed. In view of the importance of the dossier, I will therefore, in consultation with Infrabel, ensure that the framework in which the consultation is organised is improved. I listened very carefully to the hearings in committee last week. We can improve things. After all, it seems strongly advisable to clarify the argument framework in which the dossiers are dealt with. Of course, I will also put my ear to the other stakeholders. So there is still a little work to be done, but I understand that it is an important subject for the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm glad you're reporting that there's room for improvement. You also speak of consultation with the municipalities. As mayor and Member of Parliament, I see in the word 'consultation' a different way of working than the way Infrabel is currently applying it. I speak from experience. If there is no full agreement on the target, then that is bad luck. Then that bike highway will not be possible or very difficult to realise. This is not in line with the multimodal mobility we would all like to achieve. I think there's still a lot of work to be done there. At the hearing it became clear that also among the many interest groups we spoke, the attitude of Infrabel fell very badly, among others at Trage Wegen, the Cyclists Association and the VVSG. I too, as mayor, feel in my congregation that there is still work to be done. I hope that we can take a number of steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u51	Mr President, Minister, I am very pleased with your reply. I am pleased to hear that you are also of the opinion that there is a need to change the rules in this area. You have explained the legal basis for the power of autonomous closure because of Infrabel. In the meantime, I have added Article 199 of the 1991 law. It is clear that that law also allows a great deal of room for interpretation on that point, especially in relation to the regional road decree. It will come to us as legislators to clear it up, because today Infrabel's performance was explained in detail last week by all the organizations that Mr Verhaert just mentioned as judge and party when it comes to the closure of consideration. They make the decision, but they also have a direct financial advantage, while they have no idea of the full interests of society, let alone a democratic accountability to the community. That can indeed be done better and the final decision must be given to another authority for us. It must at least be removed from the unilateral aspect. It cannot be possible for Infrabel to take that decision autonomously, without ratification by other bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u52	Mr Minister, as the previous speaker said, we are repeating here the concerns that were raised last week and which you also share somewhat, which pleases me. You say communication can be improved. You will take the initiative to improve the communication framework. I am very happy with that. There's plenty of room for improvement. We look forward to improving consultation, not only in terms of content, but also in terms of the time when it will be organised. The interest groups are numerous. The municipalities are numerous. It's a very complex fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u53	Mr President, I shall speak to the minister with a little more lightness. Minister, as you know, the lack of courtesy at the wheel – not to say aggressiveness – is a sad reality of traffic in Belgium. We have all already seen how angry and patient some drivers are when the red light turns green and the drivers before them do not react quickly enough to their taste. In order to avoid this type of problem and to make traffic more serene, most countries in northern Europe are going back to the red light at the same time before leaving the only green light. This four-step system by adding this simultaneous orange and red light certainly allows drivers to prepare for a calm restart, but still does not allow them to know in how long. The surprise effect is therefore not completely eliminated. It happens, however, that here, in the vicinity of Parliament, another system is used, that of countdowns during the duration of the red light – alas only for pedestrians, and not for all motorists. This system allows users to prepare themselves even more calmly for restarting, since they know exactly how long they have to wait. The surprise effect is completely removed here, which contributes to a more calm and courteous circulation. Minister, has a feasibility study already been conducted with a view to generalizing down-fires or using a similar method? If so, what were the conclusions? If not, is it possible to order one? Thank you in advance for your clarification
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u54	Mr Scourneau, I appreciate you asking me a lighter question. Sometimes good ideas can be exchanged within the framework of parliamentary dialogue. Maybe this one isn't quite so, but I'm going to give you objective information. The introduction of a roll-down signal system depends first and foremost on the willingness of road managers – regional or common – to use such a system. The system exists for pedestrians in order to objectify their waiting time and thus encourage them not to cross the red light, which is not recommended or even prohibited. On the other hand, according to the information available to me, the countdown before greening for lights intended for drivers of vehicles can only be used for technical reasons in rare places. Its usefulness is therefore very limited, as it contravenes the system of lights with detection for public transport vehicles and the one that detects traffic flows (radar and pushbutton). Based on the tests conducted, the conclusions were that the disadvantages outweighed the advantages. As a result, no request was made to introduce this scheme, which is in the front line of the regional authorities. In particular, with regard to the aggressive driving behaviour of certain motorists, I am considering developing with the Regions a new awareness sheet on the essential theme of courtesy driving. Attached to the sending of minutes, it will resume various discourteous behaviour and perceived as aggressive by illustrating the dangers and sanctions associated with them. I believe that travelling on the highway, regardless of the means of transport used, should not be a cause of stress. Whether losing one or two seconds to a fire is a source of aggressiveness is indeed challenging. All actors working on mobility and road safety should work towards a more peaceful mobility. I hope my answer calmed you, Mr. Scourneau.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u55	Mr. Scourneau, are you soothed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u56	Mr. President, I wasn't upset. I have a new coffee machine in my office. Its use has not yet pissed me off enough for me to fly on this issue. However, the countdown system could, in my view, be useful. Maybe I was wrong. But, as part of your cooperation with the ministers responsible for mobility at the regional level, this idea should perhaps be put back on the table. But this is just a suggestion, minister. Anyway, thank you for listening to me and answering my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u57	Mr President, Minister, I am the mayor of Braine-l'Alleud, where we are particularly sensitive to the ER. On January 11, you gave the press, together with Jean-Pierre Hansen, a long interview in which you rightly recall the various advances made by Minister Bellot under the Michel government. With regard to the funding of the RSP, as early as 2016, Minister Bellot found that the remaining amounts for the funding of the RSP were insufficient. This analysis confirmed by the Court of Auditors will lead the Michel I government to release a billion euros running until 2031 in order to complete the project. This funding is also regulated by a cooperation agreement with the Regions. In addition, you mention the need for an additional half billion. However, it has already been planned to be made available under the 2018 Cooperation Agreement. On the one hand, it comes from the balance of the RER fund of 228 million as of 1 June 2016 and, on the other hand, from the 289 million from the reallocation of the pre-financing of the railway connection of Gosselies and the remainder of the pre-financing of the parking lot of Louvain-la-Neuve. All these funding systems were released by Minister Bellot some time ago. The commissioning deadlines you cite are also the same as those announced in a joint statement by the Michel II government, Infrabel, TUC RAIL and SNCB in February 2019 with, for example, the commissioning of the Waterloo-Braine Alliance section of Line 124. I still remember the great political gesture at the time on the relaunch of the RER and in particular the Watermael-Bakenbos section of line 161, for 2025. The same applies to the train speeds for which Minister Bellot announced in 2019 four S (suburban) trains per hour, at peak times, on lines 124 between Brussels and Nivelles and on line 161 between Brussels and Louvain-la-Neuve. Again, in your statements, there is no further progress on what has been in place since February 2019. Minister, what are the new developments in this ER file that you and your department are going to bring? In addition to the implementation of the Bellot calendar, if I can say so, what will be the added value of your department's action on this issue? Currently, both the timelines advanced and the funding of the project are those instigated by Minister Bellot and his department. I didn't see any more diligence or a new schedule in your remarks. Thank you for rebutting them if you agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u58	Mr President, Mr Scourneau, I obviously agree. In this country, sometimes ensuring the continuity of the good choices that have been made before yourself is already a whole project. Your question would deserve a long development because the RER has been a project on the table for too long and should have been realized long before my arrival as Minister of Mobility. I would like to take this opportunity to commend the work and work of my predecessors, even though they have sometimes left me difficult and complicated cases and even if I would have dreamed of inheriting a railway network in better condition. Last January's cross-interview with the confirmed Chair of the RER Steering Committee, Mr Hansen, did not recall much of the previous government's progress. I wanted above all to look to the future, to continue moving towards our common goal: to improve the supply of trains and to offer a robust alternative to the car to travel to and in Brussels, which concerns the inhabitants of your province, but not only. We wanted to highlight the philosophy with which we work. There is no point in waiting for everything to be done to take advantage of the advances allowed in mobility by the RER project, if only piece by piece. Since the beginning of the legislature, we have had the opportunity to welcome the relaunch of the RER steering committee which had been at a standstill for a year – consultation is important – and the introduction of the single Brupass ticket between the four transport companies, which had been expected for twenty years. A new step was taken during the Carnival holidays with the placement of the switches at the height of the Louvain-la-Neuve bifurcation. During the same holiday, work was done on the bridge of Ottignies. The increase in hourly supply occurred in December on the S Network. I can also mention the fact sheets that we have introduced under the Recovery and Resilience Fund for intra-Brussels S supply on the east-west axis, which is a little neglected and yet has significant potential, for the inhabitants of the western part of Brussels and in particular of the commune of Uccle. As a follow-up, it is my will that every step can be gradually implemented when the SNCB presents the transport plan every year in December: to increase the supply of trains on this network is, to strengthen the consultation with the Regions – I see my fellow ministers of mobility very regularly – and to ensure that every possible gain is implemented when it can be done without waiting for the big evening. That's why I'm in almost daily contact with the RER stakeholders and I'm fighting to get as many rail resources as possible. Thank you again, Mr. Scourneau, for your support for this objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, in Braine-l'Alleud, we have been talking about the ER for twenty years. I remember meeting the SNCB and Infrabel interlocutors more than 20 years ago. The file has progressed slowly. The small steps make great progress when they combine well. Here it has been complicated. I do not hide from you that having tabled this question a few days ago, I will complete it with the one which is also on the agenda, but which will probably not be dealt with today, to tell you all the doubts that I have about the realization of the ER on line 124. I hope you can reassure me at the agreed time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u60	Minister, I refer to the committee meeting on Wednesday 10 February, where you answered questions about the feasibility of the Hamant-Weert rail link. You know that SNCB has recently carried out a study on this subject. Along the Belgian side, several efforts have been made in recent years to enable this extension to Weert. The station of Hamont was reopened. Meanwhile, the Mol-Neerpelt-Hamont railway line is also electrified. Those works will be completed in June, I know by now. I did not get an answer to some of the questions on 10 February, which is why I am asking them again today. Firstly, will electrification work on line 19 be completed as planned in June? In the meantime, I have heard this through the media, and that is good news. Secondly, the Brussels-Mol peak hour train will be extended to Neerpelt in the same period. According to SNCB, a further extension to Hamant is not possible at the moment: the station is not suitable to receive long trains. Is this also an obstacle to the possible extension of the Antwerp-Mol-Hamont line to Weert? Are you prepared to have the necessary work done on the station? Thirdly, I would like to ask you for a copy of the feasibility study carried out by SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u61	Mr Minister, my question was tabled a while ago and has already been answered in part. Indeed, it concerns electrification works on railway line 19, which have been delayed by the corona crisis. On the first question, when the works would be finished, we have already been able to read the answer in the press. In addition, I have a question about railway 15. There too the electrification works were interrupted for some time. Those works wouldn't have been delayed. In view of the fact that they were not completed until the end of 2022, the timetable remains for that railway line. One last question. The works are financed from European funds, which would also be used for the realisation of the Ghent-Terneuzen route. How many resources could be transferred? Is there any agreement on that yet? If not, when do you expect an agreement on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u62	Mr President, Infrabel informs me that electrification works on line 19 are on schedule and will be completed in July. You read that in the press, too. That is very good news and I would like to go on the spot to see progress. Mr Raskin, with regard to the necessary modifications to the station at Hamant, the platforms will be extended. The start of the works is foreseen at the end of 2021 or early 2022. The feasibility study you quote will be delivered to the committee secretariat so that you can read it. Mrs Verhaert, the electrification works on line 15 Hasselt-Mol are in full swing. However, a number of bridges need to be adapted in relation to initial planning. The end of the works is currently foreseen in 2023. As regards the resources that can be transferred, an adaptation of the implementing cooperation agreement of 5 October 2018 is necessary. The update of that implementing cooperation agreement has been delayed by the corona crisis. However, the work on this matter has begun and I hope that we can now move quickly to take a decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u63	Minister, I would like to refer again to your ambition in the government agreement on cross-border rail links. Your policy paper was also very clear about this. On the other hand, what you described as a negative business case on 10 February as regards SNCB. I am very pleased that you have just informed us that you will have the study distributed by the committee secretariat, for which I thank you. The conclusion of a negative business case does make me ask some questions. I wonder if this is about the number of passengers. Through informal channels I hear that it would be about 1,000 step-ups a day. Also the previous quick scan and potential study of a few years ago spoke of a thousand passengers. It will be very interesting to put the SNCB study and the number of passengers side by side, because if 1,000 passengers are not enough, then we will have to put these figures alongside those of other cross-border rail links, perhaps we will even have to put internal Belgian rail links next to each other. To be continued without a doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u64	Mrs Verhaert, Mr Raskin, that is, for the sake of clarity, the conclusion of the SNCB I have read. In order to establish a link with other countries, we need the agreement of other countries. They must also carry out and finance the necessary works. Without the Netherlands, in this case, we can do nothing even with the best will in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u65	Mr. Lester, thank you for getting us the feasibility study. I asked for it in writing. I'm looking forward to receiving it. In addition, it is of course also good that the station of Hamont will be dealt with. I hope that we will soon know more about the funds that will be transferred to the Ghent-Terneuzen route.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u66	Mr President, Minister, when I was just elected, a former politician told me that perhaps, knowing myself, I was going to advertise on everything and that is allowed, but that I had to bite myself in certain files that touched me. I'm being honest, this is becoming one of those files. This dossier is so close to my heart because the more experts I consult on this issue, the more I am convinced that this would be extremely good for Limburg. That is certainly the case when I look at the figures of SNCB investments in Limburg over the last decades. Minister, I invite you to look at it as a percentage. You will be very aware of how I feel at the moment. Limburg has really been treated stepmotherly in recent decades in the field of investment by SNCB. I have already asked you about the falling number of train passengers in Limburg, which has a reason, and the rising congestion. One of the solutions to this is the reopening of the Lanaken station. That would give South-East Limburg access to the railway and would create a link between Hasselt and Maastricht. It is an easily feasible decision, because the old railway bed between Lanaken and Bilzen is still there. It is possible to activate this trail without expropriation. The parties of the majority and yourself raise some concerns, namely that there are plans for the Hamont-Weert railway line. In my opinion, that is a very crooked argument. Both in the northeast and in the southeast of the province there are great needs and opportunities. It is therefore not possible to see a contradiction between the two projects if one starts from the specific needs of the province. Others suggest that there will be a rapid tram between Hasselt and Maastricht. In the answer to an earlier interplay, you also referred to that project, which Infrabel coordinates together with De Lijn. You also referred to the work of your Flemish counterpart, Mrs Peeters. However, the Spartacus project has been dragging on for years and has already cost tens of millions of euros in studies, while there is still a great deal of uncertainty. It is also possible to have light rail and train running on one and the same track. We have consulted experts and all say the same. The railway line we are proposing could also serve as a freight corridor between the port of Antwerp and the Ruhr, which can take lorries off our motorways. The Spartacus plan doesn't have that potential. You should see how many lorries to the Ruhr area can be taken off the road with these projects. Minister, will you and the government support our resolution to reopen the Hasselt-Maastricht rail link via a Lanaken railway station or take such an initiative? Can you confirm that the old railway bed Lanaken-Bilzen is still there, which would greatly facilitate the re-use? Will you discuss with the Netherlands the possibility of re-using this rail link, in particular the future of the Meuse Bridge? Will you take an initiative as soon as possible to prevent the planned demolition of that bridge? Can you confirm that foreign examples show that it is indeed possible to have both light rail and regular trains running on one and the same track? As a federal minister, will you not be prevented from investing in the Limburg railway because of the Spartacus project, which does not have to be in any way contrary to the investments in the Hasselt-Maastricht railway line and on which there are still a lot of uncertainties? Do you not think that this type of Community debate shows that mobility must become a federal competence again as a matter of urgency? Do you think there is a contradiction between the Hamant-Weert line and the Hasselt-Maastricht line? Do you not think that there are great needs and opportunities both in the north-east and in the south-east of the province? Can you confirm that this railway would bring with it great opportunities in the field of freight transport and trucks of the E313, E314 and the closing clover leaf?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u67	Mr Colebunders, I have a brief answer for you. I am well aware of the various questions relating to cross-border connections in the province of Limburg, such as line 20 and other routes. I hope that there will soon be a government in the Netherlands. There is probably going to be a vote at this time so that I can contact the custody minister to talk about those projects, which concern our two countries. With regard to your proposal to reopen line 20, I would like to point out that there are no plans in this direction at the moment. That's the situation I inherited. Infrabel currently coordinates with De Lijn a number of aspects in the context of the realisation of line 1 of the Spartacus project, a rapid tram project of the Flemish government, for which considerable preparations have already been made. As you also know, this planned speed tram uses for a large part the bed of the historic line 20. I would therefore like to refer you to my Flemish colleague, Lydia Peeters, who, in November, December and January, gave several explanations on this matter in the Flemish Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u68	Mr. Secretary, I could have guessed what you'd say. With the explanation you're giving, there's really nothing I can do. The connection to the Netherlands is a point, but the station in Lanaken is also there. Those rails were once built in bends, so freight does not have to run back and forth. The Dutch, Belgian and German legislation on the number of wagons allowed to hang behind a locomotive has really been taken into account. You just don't take all these things into account. I'm very sorry about that. Don't you want to do something drastic about the fileleed? We are allowed to drive along the clover leaf in Lummen every day. That monster project has cost a lot of money, but despite the corona crisis it is sludged more and more close there. We are really not happy with your answer and will continue to do so. A lot of people in Limburg support that project. You know as well as I do that the Spartacus plan is farther away than ever. I hope I won't see it again, but in so many years a question will be asked about the reopening of line 20, because the Spartacus plan simply won't be there. Let us be honest, Minister; and admit that you also do not know how to solve it and that our solution is the best solution at the moment. I shall table a motion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u69	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Gaby Colebunders and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard Mr Gaby Colebunders' interplay and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - considering the major mobility needs in Limburg; - considering the declining number of train passengers in Limburg; - whereas there is no cross-border rail link to Maastricht from Limburg; - whereas Lanaken and by extension South-East Limburg have no access to the railway; - whereas the Spartacus project has been waiting for years and there is still a great deal of uncertainty around it; - whereas this project has already cost tens of millions of euros in studies alone; - considering the Community's difficulties in our country, including mobility; asks the government - to urgently consult with the Netherlands to cancel the planned demolition of the Maasbrug in order not to stop the Hasselt-Maastricht railway line; - to consider, together with the Flemish Government, how to combine the Lightrail and rail option, - to reactivate the railway line 20 between Hasselt and Maastricht including the reopening of the railway station in Lanaken." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Gaby Colebunders and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Gaby Colebunders and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - in view of the enormous need for mobility in Limburg; - in view of the decrease in the number of railway passengers in Limburg; - in view of the absence of a cross-border rail link to Maastricht from Limburg; - having regard to the fact that Lanaken and by extension south-east Limburg are deprived of rail access; - in view of the fact that the Spartacus project has been delayed for years and that it remains surrounded by many uncertainties; - in view of the fact that this project has already swallowed up tens of millions of euros in education costs only; - having regard to the Belgian Community imbroglio, in particular with regard to mobility; asks the government - to consult urgently with the Dutch executive in order to cancel the planned demolition of the bridge overlooking the Meuse and not to compromise the Hasselt-Maastricht railway link; - to consider with the Flemish Government how to possibly combine the Light Rail option with rail; - asks the government to reactivate line 20 between Hasselt and Maastricht, including the reopening of the Lanaken station." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Nicolas Parent. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Nicolas Parent. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u70	Mr President, Minister, in the spring and the first lockdown, SNCB decided to extend the duration of its multi-ride maps. During the lockdown only a limited number of essential movements could be made. Meanwhile, in our country since the beginning of November 2020 we have a limited but still a new lockdown. Although there is no prohibition of non-essential movements, there is a very strong demand - as the Prime Minister did the day before yesterday - for non-essential movements and non-essential contacts to be reduced as far as possible. In addition, a number of destinations for travellers fell away. Museums closed the doors for several weeks. Zoos and amusement parks closed. Horeca activities stopped again. I don't have to explain it to you. For many people, especially the inactive population, just like those who often use ten-ride cards and the like, there was little else to do than to cancel the weekly trip by train. They are now asking for a further extension of the validity of the multi-driving cards. SNCB does not consider it necessary to extend the period of validity as there has been no domestic travel ban in the last few weeks and months. It is not entirely correct for SNCB to hide behind it. The population has been asked to reduce the number of journeys as far as possible. If people follow that question, they should not be punished for it. Firstly, Minister, how do you, in your capacity as Minister, look at the travel restrictions that have been there? I am referring explicitly to you as a minister and not to SNCB's response. Secondly, are you prepared to finance compensation for travellers in connection with possible additional corona compensations for SNCB and Infrabel with that money? I understand that in the spring it will be re-examined how SNCB and Infrabel can be compensated for the lower number of passengers due to the corona crisis. Thirdly, can this be clarified quickly in order to provide immediate security for travellers with a pass?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u71	Thank you for your questions, in which various aspects deserve attention. My answer is partly in French because a question from Mrs Jadin was added to it. As discussed in the Mobility Committee at the beginning of November, SNCB confirms to me that passengers can still use the existing compensation scheme, which is also applied by the other three public transport companies. In reply to my question, SNCB is examining the possibilities of developing a subscription formula that responds to the growing importance of telework, such as perhaps a part-time subscription in the future. Mr Van den Bergh, because of the health context in which we have all been living for over a year, I receive a large number of letters concerning the commercial offer of SNCB. The extension of certain types of ticket is one of the topics most frequently mentioned. However, this is not the case at the moment, but I have a consultation with SNCB in the coming weeks. There was already a measure, which also asked a question, concerning the free tickets to the place of vaccination. More formal discussions with SNCB are planned on the overall tariff offer. We will press for compliance with the government agreement, namely that SNCB is obliged to offer passengers the most advantageous fare available at all times. This is a discussion for the upcoming management agreement between SNCB and the Belgian State. Your question on corona compensation for the railway companies was already addressed in a previous question by Mr Roggeman. The extension of the period of validity of the passes is not currently foreseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u72	It is perhaps because you had to translate a French text when you read the answer, that I did not understand everything correctly, I think. If I have understood correctly, there is no provision for an extension today, but it is still negotiable and will be discussed in the coming weeks when the corona compensations are also discussed with SNCB. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u73	I will indeed try to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u74	In addition, I welcome the fact that SNCB is currently considering how to develop better subscription formulas for part-time work at home and part-time work at the office. That doesn't make any sense. Minister, for the record, we are not the great advocate of free passes and free tickets for travel. These are people who have bought a pass to take their weekly or biweekly trip, for example. They paid for that. They have heard the government's call for as little unnecessary movement as possible and are now asking very reasonably whether the pass cannot be extended for some time. That question is also justified. We need to seriously consider getting into it. I wanted to repeat that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u75	Mr Minister, the explanation given by SNCB is, of course, correct. There hasn't been a domestic travel ban. Apart from the problem of pricing and subscription formulas, you will face a huge challenge in the future. Let's get that straight. I agree somewhat with Mr Van den Bergh. People who have bought a rail pass or a ride pass that, for example, expired at the end of February and of which a lot of rides had not yet been used because the tourist attractions at the places they wanted to visit were closed, remain in the cold. Those people have lost their money and I regret, in this sense, the policy of SNCB, which chooses not to provide a concession. I don't think it fits in with your government's federal ambition to warm people up for travel by train if they can experience such frantic experiences. I hope that this will change in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u76	It's a general thought. As colleagues refer to the written text of their question, we gain time and more questions can be dealt with. This remains, of course, an individual decision, which can be taken on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u77	Mr Minister, this question is in line with the question put by Mr Raskin earlier. For me, the recently published study is very important. I understand that we can receive a copy of it, which I very much appreciate. During the previous round of questions on the Hamont-Weert rail link, arguments were raised such as possible problems with the approval of the carriages. Suppose that one day it is decided to realize the connection Hamont-Weert, then some time will pass. I do not see the problem very well, because I believe that there is sufficient time, if need be, to put the type approval and other technical aspects in order. What is your view, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u78	Mr President, this is a very important dossier for me and for other Members. So let me cut my question a little bit, but still put it orally, given its importance. Minister, the border region between Belgium and the Netherlands is one of the most important. Many regularly cross the border to shop, study or even work. However, there is no smooth cross-border public transport, especially when we are dependent on the train. Travellers from Limburg or the Kempen have to track down to Antwerp in order to cross the border by train, which means a three-hour train ride. When the connection Hamont-Weert is realized, the journey time is only half an hour, an immense difference. Currently, that railway line connects the city of Antwerp and Hamont-Achel, located in Limburg. With the expansion Cranendonck and Weert can also be operated, just across the border with the Netherlands. It is estimated that 800 to 1,000 extra passengers can access an additional train connection in their neighbourhood daily. This rail link also means better accessibility to and from the Netherlands, because from Weert you can travel directly with an intercity train to larger cities like Alkmaar, Eindhoven,'s-Hertogenbosch, Tilburg, Maastricht and even Amsterdam. The municipalities of Balen, Mol, Hamont-Achel, Pelt and Lommel therefore also ask for the extension of railway line 19 to the Netherlands in a joint letter. Oral questions were also raised during the previous session. You stated at that time that the study on this new connection was complete. In your reply to an earlier oral question today, you have already mentioned this. Despite a potential of 1,000 travellers, the study speaks of a negative business case for the NBMS. Given the very high potential and the limited investment that is needed, that result surprised me, and clearly other colleagues as well. Mr Minister, I ask you the following questions pending the study that you are going to give us. Could you elaborate on the results of the investigation? Why is there a negative business case? You mentioned that you would record this with the Netherlands. Can you back up on that yet? Will you take concrete additional steps for the realisation of the Hamont-Weert route? The transport needs in border regions are not met today by public transport. What steps will you take to achieve cross-border connections?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u79	Mrs Verhaert, I have already answered some of your questions, but I will come back to them. As already mentioned in the committee of 10 February last, SNCB carried out the study requested by my predecessor, Mr Bellot, on the feasibility of operating the Hamant-Weert link. The potential of passengers and the need for equipment and personnel to benefit from the connection were examined. On this basis, the revenues and costs of operation by SNCB could be determined. As already stated, the connection would be loss-making. Apart from the financial side, a number of technical steps can also be taken. Even when the works on the railway infrastructure are completed on the Belgian side, there are still extensive works to be carried out on the Dutch side and points such as approval and the safety equipment of the rolling stock remain to be carried out. It is therefore not the case that the start of this connection can be a unilateral Belgian decision. The necessary studies on this connection have also been completed on the Dutch side. In this respect, I contacted my Dutch colleague and instructed my administration to convene the existing Belgian-Dutch working group on short-term cross-border traffic to compile the various existing studies and determine the further steps in the dossier. However, we must wait for a new government in the Netherlands and a new colleague responsible for Mobility. I will be very happy to meet this person, but also about other files linking our countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I look forward to the report, to that negative business case that would be there. We do have a few questions about that. The number of passengers was confirmed, but the question is, of course, what is being looked at. What are we gonna count? How are we going to count? Where are we going to count? When are we going to count? The great misconception made in Hasselt-Maastricht's file and in that of Hamant-Weert is that only a certain piece is considered, but that is part of a larger whole. We're not talking about Hasselt-Maastricht. We are actually talking about Leuven-Hasselt-Maastricht-Aachen-Keulen. At Hamont-Weert we are talking about Antwerp to Eindhoven. That's the line we're talking about. I'd like to see those potential studies. I also refer to Brainport Eindhoven, a very important business area, where there are enormous opportunities, both for us there and for the Dutch colleagues with us. It's all part of a much bigger whole. That is why I am looking forward to the content of the reports that will be released.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u81	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. A thousand travelers on a line is certainly not nothing. As my colleague has said, we really need to look at the bigger picture. The extra connections that this creates, not only on that piece, would be a huge added value for Antwerpen. I look forward to the further initiatives that will be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u82	Mr Minister, we have recently learned about the various aspects of SNCB's 2020-2023 transport plan, particularly those relating to the stations in Picardy Wallonia. Special attention was paid to the important renewal of the Mouscron-Tournai railway line, scheduled for the period August 2021-December 2021, as well as to the renovation of the docks at Herseaux station, to be carried out between 2021 and 2026. For the inhabitants of western Picardy Wallonia, the Mouscron-Tournai railway line is one of the main access routes to Ath, Brussels, Mons, Charleroi and Namur. Borrowed by many workers and students, this line has a significant influx. We know that in order to overcome the lack of trains on the line, SNCB is planning to set up a bus service between Mouscron and Tournai. Minister, can you inform us about this service? Will it offer a number of trips similar to the one originally proposed by SNCB trains? Will this service be able to accommodate a large number of travellers, especially during peak hours, in the morning, in the evening, at weekends, when the students depart to Brussels and Louvain-la-Neuve? Are renovations to the docks at Herseaux Station planned for the period August 2021-December 2021? Will this work allow for the safe reception of travellers? We know that the projects envisaged by SNCB in certain Belgian stations do not mention the installation of benches or infrastructure to allow commuters to sit. Is the installation of such infrastructure on the docks of Herseaux station envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u83	Mr Senesael, thank you for your patience. You asked me a written question on the same subject and I didn't answer it on time, but it won't happen again. I will do it here orally because it is an important subject and it is not annoyed that a line is completely cut for such a long time. The aim is to renovate it from top to bottom. Extensive work is planned on the Mouscron-Tournai section. I welcome these investments. They are important for the railway infrastructure which was particularly fragile there. Specifically, Infrabel will interrupt traffic for 4 months (from 31 August to 6 December) and between Tournai and France for one month (from 8 November to 6 December). The tracks will be dismantled and, therefore, no train will be able to travel between these cities. I am well aware that commuters will be greatly impacted throughout the entire period of this work and that this will create significant difficulties for them. Therefore, special attention should be paid to alternative measures to be taken by travellers. These will therefore, depending on the case and the studies of capacity to come, be diverted by train via Courtrai, in particular those who will go to Brussels or on buses running between Tournai and Mouscron and buses between Tournai and France during this phase of construction. SNCB informs me that it is currently particularly complicated to know the evolution of the pandemic and therefore the volume of travellers and therefore to predict the flows of travellers to be taken into account. These assessments will be done in due course. The planning work on this site will begin in June 2021 and the alternative measures will be communicated in July 2021. a little more patience. With regard to Herseaux, as part of the development of its new multi-annual investment plan, SNCB has asked Infrabel to make investments in dock enhancements, as elsewhere to promote accessibility, which is a priority for us, and to review the planning, on the understanding that these enhancements are an indispensable part of the complete renovation of the reception areas. It is during this period of total interruption of the line, from August to December, that the docks will be enhanced thus making two strokes with one stone. SNCB informs me that it will supply the equipment, Mr. Senesael, with shelters and benches. Be aware that in the future, the SNCB will systematically provide for the placement of benches in its stations and stop points, which makes me happy. The complete completion of the renovation of the line is scheduled for March 2022, on the understanding that the trains will re-roll from 7 December.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u84	Minister, I see that you are well aware of the situation and have it in your hands. I will certainly refer this valuable information to the people who have questioned me on this issue. We will remain attentive to developments in the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u85	Minister, thank you for your answers. The most important thing for me is that you pay attention to the alternative measures that will be proposed to commuters. There are many and varied questions about the organization of transport during the closure of this line. I see that there is a concertation and that the information will be communicated to us during the month of July 2021. I am also pleased that work on the line is being carried out to repair the docks at Tournai station, and in particular their upgrading, but also the shelters and benches which will be laid thus improving the quality of the reception. All this goes in the right direction and I thank you again, Minister, for these answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u86	Question No 55014319C by Mr. Ben Achour is postponed. Questions Nos 55014350C, 55014351C and 55014352C by Ms Hanus are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u87	Mr President, I think everyone knows what this is about. There is a disagreement between SNCB and the coastal mayors about the trains that run to the coast. I'll ask my questions immediately. How many travellers did SNCB transport to the Belgian coast during the weekend of 20 and 21 February? Did any incidents occur during that weekend? If so, which one? Was there any consultation between SNCB and local authorities on the introduction of additional trains to the coast? What was the position of the local authorities? There are six train stations on our coast, but they are not all equally easily accessible, making most travellers opt for Ostend or Blankenberge. Is there no possibility for SNCB to improve services, particularly on weekends, in the other railway stations on the coast?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u88	Minister, we have all seen what has happened. Also February was a beautiful month, with all the consequences. Many people came out of their cave and visited tourist attractions, the coast in particular. Once again, for the umpteenth time in a row, that led to a bunch of criticism by coastal mayors for, according to them, total absence of consultation. The Governor of West Flanders himself went so far as to threaten to fail SNCB and send a bailiff on them to make findings of violations of the corona measures and even to close the stations completely if necessary. Minister, can you confirm that SNCB has or has not consulted the coastal communities? They denied that. According to SNCB, there has been a consultation. Can you give an overview of the moments when that consultation took place? The coastal mayors do not appear to be in favour of additional trains to the coast during the pandemic. Then why does SNCB still organise them against their wishes? Isn't that discussed and coordinated? The Mayor of Ostend, in particular, a distinguished member of a majority party, for the umpteenth time called on the government to consider additional measures in this regard. What action will you take as a guardian minister? Do you think it is justified that SNCB allows a capacity utilisation rate of 100 % on its trains to the coast during the coronapandemic? Is it justified that people literally take every seat? Today, nadar fences are also used at some times. I refer to Ghent-Sint-Pieters, where people's flows in the station are being organized in this way. All praise to the people of Securail, who are doing their best to row with the belts they have and to manage things well, but actually it is a prehistoric system to place metal fences and put people in stations. We already talk about innovative solutions and smart economy, but aren't there better ways to work? Why does SNCB also refuse to calculate the number of persons admitted by platform or station? What is your opinion on this after a year in this pandemic and lockdown? Why is there still no reservation system for expected traffic on certain lines? Are you in favour of that, Minister? Finally, the same problem is expected again in the coming Easter holiday. How does SNCB anticipate this? Are any calls being made this time? What measures are being taken and how will they be dealt with differently from the previous school holidays?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u89	Mr President, Minister, it is almost a year since we all shared one concern in this committee: how can we ensure that our trains continue to operate safely? How can we ensure that people have sufficient confidence to continue choosing the train? SNCB then introduced a number of measures in the course of the past year, such as the duty of mouth masking and a crowded detector. However, there are still a lot of reports of overcrowded trains and crowding on the platforms, which is very difficult to regulate. Usually that is indeed at times of good weather. I must say that we must continue to have this discussion, because I am sure that many committee members are also disturbed by the stigmatizing statements made by some mayors and governors, whom I do not need to mention by name, but who apparently do not want to have rail passengers in their city anymore. In my view, they stigmatize rail passengers by such statements, because they cannot control the situation in their congregation. On the other hand, we must also note that it seems that SNCB is not doing anything extra to remove some of those mayors' concerns. Overcrowded trains can't go on at this time, after a year. That is why I have decided to support the following questions, which correspond to the questions put by my fellow Members. Are the messages about trains driving with an occupancy of more than 100 %? If so, what measures did SNCB take and why did they not have the desired effect? Also in some stations it seemed sometimes too busy over the past weekends and the busy plan came into effect. Travellers are counted before they can get on the platform, but that often causes crowds and chaos in the station halls. What efforts will SNCB make to avoid fuss in these situations? Finally, spreading information through the website and the app does not work enough to discourage people from taking a busy train. What efforts will SNCB make to disseminate information on busy train connections also via other media?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I think we all understand, ladies and gentlemen, the need and certainly the need for some of our fellow citizens to get out of their homes, to aerate, to enjoy beautiful sunny days and the Belgian coast, in this case. We also saw a lot of people in the Fagnes at the time of the first snow. Some people are moving by train, so much the better. Others use their cars to get to the coast. It must be admitted, I have discussed it with the mayor of Ostend, it does not make life easy for coastal mayors since the horeca sector is closed, and they have a limited capacity to welcome tourists. I fully understand that. For its part, SNCB has the responsibility to transport passengers by train, with respect for sanitary regulations. SNCB communicates and sensitises abundantly, and continues to do so, through all possible channels. All the rules have been put into a protocol that SNCB must respect. SNCB had a number of trains on standby throughout the network over the past weekends in order to be able to deploy them quickly if necessary and to spread the passengers who are already in the station across different trains. There were also security officers deployed at the stations to distribute passengers as much as possible when there were too many passengers. It is not the additional trains that create the additional passengers, but the additional passengers that require, in the head of SNCB, an adaptation of its rolling stock so as to provide for compliance with sanitary conditions by trains that would not be too loaded. On the other hand, it is not the role of SNCB to decide who is allowed to drive the train and who is not, and to what destination. People in our country are free to go and stand wherever they want. Limiting the supply, which SNCB did a few times during the summer of 2020, led to an increase in the average occupancy on the other trains. Let us not forget that SNCB uses a maximum supply precisely at the request of the national government, precisely because travelling by train could be as safe as possible during this health crisis. After all, many travellers do not feel comfortable when it is too busy on their train, and I can understand that very well. SNCB is and remains in permanent contact with the responsible coastal authorities, both with the governor and with the mayors. For example, SNCB has held constructive consultations with the National Crisis Centre, the Federal Cabinets of the Ministers for Mobility and Home Affairs, the Province of West Flanders and the coastal communities. At this meeting, SNCB proposed a system that anticipates the expected flow of passengers to the coast. The system is based on information from the itinerary, which is available via the SNCB app and website. After all, the vast majority of customers consult that travel planner in advance to plan a train ride. During the Easter holiday, a pilot project will be applied to travel to Ostend, which will subsequently be rolled out for rail traffic to the other coastal cities, provided that it is evaluated positively. I conclude by saying that we are in very regular contact with the SNCB, my office and also the Interior Office, to provide the police services in sufficient reinforcement for the mayors of the Côte, to try to announce the arrival of travellers as soon as possible, to limit the number of passengers via crowd control mechanisms in the stations from Brussels. On the understanding, as I said, that we cannot put a police officer behind every citizen who decides to take the train. There is basically a wish of our fellow citizens, given the pandemic, given the impossibility of moving abroad, of being able to have some extraordinary activities, as the train allows. But I also insist with those who will read: it is certainly nice to go to the North Sea. It's a pleasure we all have. However, there are many other areas that can be visited in the south, east and west of our country, and that remain accessible by train, since SNCB has made an effort, since the beginning of the pandemic, to maintain its service for the benefit of travellers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u91	Mr President, Minister, you have not answered many questions, as is often the case. As you yourself say, it is important that everyone has the right to go to sea. We can't expect people who don't have cars to go to sea. I proposed to make the stations which are not so accessible more accessible, but I did not hear you say that you would look at them. It's very confusing for people. On the one hand they were given free tickets to go to sea and on the other hand some coastal mayors did not like to see people coming. This morning, we received the report from Unia concerning COOVID-19. It also states that it is a form of discrimination if people could not go by train to the coast. We must pay attention to this and ensure that there are enough trains so that people can go anywhere safe and enjoy a day at the sea, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u92	Mr President, Minister, I must join Mr Vindevoghel. Many of my questions have also remained unanswered. Everyone has to adapt. Every private individual, every company and every public body has had to adapt to the conditions of the lockdown. Everyone has to learn from this and everyone makes mistakes, but SNCB shows a very flat learning curve. We have been in this situation for a year now, and SNCB has hardly learned lessons from it, not from the discussions with the municipalities, which have been complaining about this for a whole year, nor from their own organisation. SNCB still uses very strange systems. I hear you saying that SNCB wants to make an effort. We'll see what the Easter holiday will bring. So far, the SNCB has, unfortunately, had a bad report in this area. A nice proverb reads as follows: "A donkey doesn't hit the same stone twice," but in the meantime everyone has already lost count of the number of times the NBMS hit that stone. I'm holding my heart for the Easter holidays. One bright spot is the fact that the free Hello Belgium Railpass, of which you were such a big supporter, is no longer valid from the Easter holiday. So the pull factor's gone. That's one less reason to put people together on a large scale in enclosed wagons.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u93	Minister, I hear that regular consultations are taking place and that a pilot project will be rolled out. I hope, like the other questioners, that the polemics and the discussion we have experienced every last holiday period can be avoided. It is true that this would be partly avoidable if SNCB were to take a number of strict and clear measures to ensure that passengers can travel safely and avoid the crowds on the train. However, it is important that I reiterate in my reply that we should also offer a counter-story to all mayors who work stigmatisingly towards train passengers in their municipality and want to close their stations for train passengers, because they cannot control the situation in their municipality. The hustle and bustle on beaches and in the shopping streets can not only be attributed to the people travelling by train to the coast. Yet systematically in communication the rail passengers pick out and make pleas to close the stations, is really inappropriate. I would therefore like to conclude by appealing for a different way of communicating about the train traveller on both sides and to support your plea that there are indeed other beautiful regions in our country that can also be visited. I would also suggest that, in addition to the app and the channels already used by SNCB to report the traffic on trains, we also consider whether this can be reported on the radio, as is the case for traffic jams on the roads, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u94	Minister, this question is addressed to you in your capacity as Deputy Prime Minister. We note that this country is hanging together with hooks and eyes. The division of powers is a bric-à-brac. No one knows who's qualified for it anymore. For example, we have just heard it again, Minister. You spoke of trains to the Belgian coast. That's not right. The trains are still Belgian today, but the coast is already Flemish today. According to the special law of 1980 everything up to the low-water line is a Flemish competence. The coast is Flemish. Everyone is welcome, but the coast is Flemish. There are many other themes for which it is unclear who is competent, especially in your area of Mobility. We saw that in the previous legislature. There was a struggle between the Flemish Minister of Mobility Ben Weyts and the federal minister Bellot. It was a cat-and-mouse game. The division of powers is not entirely correct. That is not only my analysis, it is also your analysis, because your coalition agreement states that this will be done. A clean slate should be started. There will be a major state reform by the year 2024. That's what my question is about. It's a giant political yard. It's a lot of work to organize it. I have asked the relevant ministers, Mrs Verlinden and Mr Clarinval, how they intend to do that. Turns out Mrs. Verlinden has two people in her cabinet and Mr. Clarinval six. Mrs Verlinden said, however, that I should not look at it that way. There would also be institutional experts in all other Cabinets, especially those of the Deputy Prime Ministers, who would ensure that progress was made and that the file was managed. How many people in your cabinet have you specifically charged with following up on that theme? What exactly was agreed on in your cabinet? Have you, for example, also provided for budgets to attract external expertise for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u95	Everyone in my cabinet is an expert, Mr. Loones. After six state reforms, this government has resolutely opted for a federalism for cooperation and meeting. I like that project. In this spirit, I take on the role of working with my colleagues responsible for Mobility in the regions. We regularly meet in an interministerial committee and we seek mobility solutions for the people through consensus and respect for the prerogatives of the federated entities. This spirit is indispensable in cross-border matters, such as Mobility. The institutional supervision in my cabinet is specifically exercised by some political advisers who are in direct contact with all their colleagues, including the minister. Currently, an advisor is contact point for the Cabinets of Ministers Verlinden and Clarinval, who are in charge of Institutional Reforms. That advisor participates in the IKW's on that important subject. Mr Loones, I can reassure you. This file, like all files, is closely followed up by my cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u96	Mr President, Minister, I would like to say that I am disappointed, but I am no longer disappointed. I am doing the rounds of all the Deputy Prime Ministers and you are all giving the same answer, namely that you may have one person in the cabinet who is a little contact, but who is far from being specific and dedicated constantly following up on that dossier. I'm sorry about that. It is also in contradiction with your own coalition agreement. You're announcing a major state reform. Then I would expect the necessary manpower or female strength or x-power to be put on it. At the same time, your statements are also in a second way in contrast to the coalition agreement, because your coalition agreement says that asymmetric policies will already be pursued, by your government, during this term of office. You have an excellent theme to ensure that policies are tailor-made in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. I have seen greater openness in that regard with Mr Dermine. He talks about European investment funds in SNCB which will be divided 60/40, 60% for Flanders and 40% for Wallonia. Minister, I assume and hope that you will also subscribe to the logic of your own government agreement, so that you will also work on the implementation of your own government agreement, ensure asymmetric policies tailored to the Länder and ensure that this great state reform is finally prepared. Of a little more ambition, we would all be pleased.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u97	The Boost Plan of Infrabel is a very interesting and comprehensive plan, with many beautiful promises. I would like to talk specifically about the financial resources for Brussels. In De Tijd you showed, among other things, that you did not see that extra expensive second tunnel in the Brussels Region because of too expensive. That's an extra feather on your hat. An illustrious Infrabel top man made the rounds here in the previous temporary government, speaking from 2 to 3 billion. However, it could also be more. You're pretty sober in that respect. According to the first allocation key of the Boost Plan, the Brussels Region would receive 6 million from this pot. It would be used for new operations on the west ring railway L28, and for the Brussels-South railway station where several switches would be renewed. How is the 6 million distributed between the two projects? When will these work be started, respectively, on the Western Railway and on the Brussels-South Exchanges? Will the commuter be disturbed by the works? If yes, is there already a chance that there will be a joint effort to deal with the nuisances with regional transport companies, such as STIB, De Lijn or possibly TEC? Has Infrabel set a deadline for completing those works yet? Six million seems, of course, a large sum of money, but will it be enough to carry out the work on the Brussels-South exchange and the L28 western ringroad? What percentage of the expenses can be covered by the EUR 6 million from the Boost Plan in question 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u98	The 6 million will be distributed as follows: 3 million will be used for line 28, in particular for renewal works on railways and works of art for the benefit of goods and passengers. One million is used for Bundel G in Schaarbeek Training, for the benefit of freight, these works are very important, for Vorst for example. Two million will be devoted to Brussels-South, to the renewal of switches, to the benefit of passenger traffic. Those works shall take place in 2021 and 2022. The amount corresponds to the works described. The amount does not cover the entire western ring track, line 28 and line 26B. That's only the first part of the Boost Plan, as you know. We have also asked Europe for resources under the European Next Generation Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u99	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Some of your answers may reassure the next questioner, because it is about Schaerbeek-Vorming. That's a good thing. 2021-2022 is a plausible time to see these works completed. It is, of course, waiting to see what this European Next Generation Plan will bring and whether the works can be carried out in the right time and with the right budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u100	Minister, in December 2020 we tabled a resolution on the conservation of the railway line on Schaerbeek-Vorming. That resolution was rejected by the majority parties. They said they wanted to give the negotiations every opportunity. The deadline's getting really close. Indeed, on 31 March 2021, the destruction of that crucial connecting track is planned. As Minister for Mobility, you want to double the share of rail freight transport. Schaerbeek-Vorming is a very important project. You just said there was going to be $1 million. I am curious to hear your answers to the following questions. What progress has been made in the negotiations between all the partners concerned in order to ensure the opening up of the port of Brussels by rail? Any progress? Are there any obstacles in the file? If so, which one? Where are you on your plan to double rail freight?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u101	Mrs Vindevoghel, I am not playing an official role in the Schaerbeek-Vorming dossier, but as a mediator, try to get and keep the various parties around the table and make progress. At the moment, discussions are taking place constructively, but a certain discretion is necessary to ensure the best chances of a positive outcome. I therefore hope to be able to bring you more news in the near future. I also attach great importance to the objective of doubling the modal share of rail freight transport. My ambition will be translated into a concrete action plan, as I have already announced. The work on that action plan is progressing well. For the preparation of that action plan we will work with various logistics players, such as the port, shippers and transporters with whom we are in contact. Possible pillars of that action plan are the following: analysis of the use of grants, in particular by analysing current grants; research into incentives to encourage rail use or to encourage a change in the mode of transport; operational improvements to increase rail confidence as a mode of transport, such as in Brussels; well-designed investments to make rail more reliable, so that each euro invested will generate three euros for society; negotiation of a performance contract for Infrabel, which will encourage the infrastructure manager to support rail use, find new customers and take industrial needs into account. In this context, I would also like to draw attention to the decision taken by the Council of Ministers last Friday on my proposal. In the period from January to June 2021, aid will be provided for rail freight transport, for a total amount of EUR 6.8 million, to compensate for losses suffered by the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u102	I didn't get it right. Will the dismantling of the connection track be stopped? You say the negotiations are in progress. It's pretty urgent. There must be no further dismantling of the line so that the railway can continue to operate for freight transport. That was an important point, wasn't it? You're negotiating, but will you be okay?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u103	The negotiations are ongoing. We're doing a good job, and we're doing our best.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u104	March 31 is the deadline for degradation. I hope it's gonna be okay. I also heard that you have a lot of plans for freight transport. We will have to discuss the whole freight transport project further in this committee so that progress can be made. I refer to what my colleague Mr Colebunders said about the train line which can have a positive impact on freight transport. If I see that there is no answer to that, I regret that. We are proposing to improve freight transport, but this is not always addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u105	Mr Minister, in the coalition agreement you expressed the intention to create a central bicycle register in the fight against bicycle thefts. I have three brief questions about this. What is the state of implementation of this plan? What's that register gonna look like? By when can we expect that? Are bike thefts a growing problem? What figures are you basing yourself on? For my third question, I refer to the pre-formative note. At that time there was talk of the use of decoy bikes, but that idea was not renewed in the final coalition agreement. May I know the reason for that? Is the government no longer in love with the idea of decoy bikes? I thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u106	Mr Minister, I have recently asked you a written question about the number of bicycle thefts in SNCB's car parks. The answer surprised me. After all, the security operations center has received only 135 calls for bicycle thefts for the whole year 2019. More recent figures were not available. That is a gross understatement of reality, if one knows that the local police reports for the city of Antwerp show that 500 bicycle thefts are reported from the Antwerp stations alone. That is a tiny fraction of reality. From previous communications, SNCB has also shown that it is a requesting party for better cooperation in the exchange of information with the police on bicycle thefts. Your predecessor, former Minister Bellot, has also reported that SNCB is asking the federal police for an analysis of bicycle thefts every two years. How do you explain the gross understatement of the number of bicycle thefts in stations by the security operations center? I also refer to total figures of 30,000 bicycle thefts per year on our territory. The stations are easily marked prey. In the meantime, have SNCB and the federal police reached an agreement on the structural exchange of information on bicycle thefts? What is the latest analysis of the federal police that the SNCB was allowed to receive? Can you make it available to our committee? Have you made any arrangements with your colleague Minister of the Interior to fine-tune that? What additional efforts will SNCB make in the coming years to improve security in its bicycle storage facilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u107	Mr Raskin, my aim is to contribute, together with the Regional Mobility Ministers, as well as my colleagues in the Interior and Justice Department, to the development of a voluntary registration system that allows the effective fight against bicycle thefts throughout Belgium. To implement that project, a Steering Committee was set up, composed of members of the relevant strategic cells, representatives of the various public authorities, and the VIAS. Technical working groups will also be set up. Since the details of the system have yet to be determined within these working groups and a study of the VIAS is expected before the end of the year, it is not possible to give a precise schedule, but we are working hard on it. According to the Federal Police figures, the number of reported bicycle thefts in 2019 was more than 30,000. Since 2011 we see a decrease in the number of indicated bicycle thefts. In that year, there were over 38,000. Over that period, the number of reported thefts in Flanders and Wallonia decreased, but increased sharply in Brussels. However, it should be noted that many victims do not indicate a bicycle theft because the chance to get the bike back is sometimes very small. It is estimated that the actual number of bicycle thefts is about 100,000 per year. The issue of decoys is mainly a matter for the Justice and Home Affairs colleagues. In the context of the fight against bicycle thefts, the use of decoy bikes is certainly an opportunity that deserves to be investigated. At present, however, the decoy bicycles do not have a clear legal framework. It is therefore desirable to remain cautious as regards the use of this technique. Mr Roggeman, SNCB informs me that the Security Operation Center does receive relatively few calls about bicycle thefts. In most cases, the public emergency number of the SOC is only called when the person concerned is in need of intervention or assistance. With regard to bicycle theft, there is often no need for urgent intervention and the victim will report the theft directly to the local police. The phenomenon of bicycle theft is also characterized by a low declaration willingness, and therefore also by a large dark number. So it is not a question of underestimating the figures by SOC. In addition, SNCB and the federal police have not agreed on a structural exchange of information on bicycle thefts. The Federal Railway Police have decided no longer to apply the Duquesne circular on the division of police duties on the railway domain. In particular, it considers that safety in the stations, and thus also the approach to phenomena such as bicycle theft, will henceforth be the responsibility of the local police. SNCB and my cabinet are currently waiting for an invitation for a consultation to take place legally before my colleague from the Interior can issue a new circular. In September 2019, SNCB's corporate security service requested figures from local police areas for concrete local data. In addition, the general crime statistics of the federal police are also used. These data are included in the organisation of cycle theft prevention weeks. Those weeks did not take place in 2020 as a result of the COOVID-19 measures. SNCB is currently working hard to optimize its data collection and business intelligence on security. One of the initiatives is mapping missing data and sources. Additional actions may be taken on the basis of this analysis. SNCB is one of the largest bicycle shed managers in the country. Safety is very important to her, therefore she often places cameras, together with local boards, when the figures show that there is a problem in terms of theft and/or vandalism. It continues to do so. On the other hand, when there is sufficient support and there are sufficient cyclists, SNCB invests in guarded bicycle sheds. These efforts also continue. There is no direct link between guarded or unguarded stations and bicycle thefts. The matter is much more complex. It's about social control, about numbers, about the environment. This is why SNCB is fully committed to good and close cooperation with local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u108	Minister, I agree with you most of all. That 30,000 is indeed an understatement. It is true that a lot of people do not report theft because they believe that there is little follow-up. So they're a plague. The policy in this area makes absolutely sense if we want to make the bike attractive as a means of transport. Especially today there are many expensive models in circulation, such as electric bicycles. In that pre-former's note, there was talk of those decoy bikes. That proposal did not reach the coalition agreement. The reason for this is that it requires some legal caution and that it needs to be dealt with with with caution. Of course, it's broader than just determining those thefts. In addition, there's an investigation. If it is legally qualified as entrapment, there is, of course, the question of whether all that is legally correct. Those are some of the sensitivities you're working on. I'd be happy to follow up, along with you and the colleagues from the Interior and Justice Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u109	Minister, there is still a great deal of research to be done and steps need to be taken on the basis of this letter. There is still a lot of work to be done with the Home Secretary. It's important to work on that. We all talk about encouraging motorists to choose the bike and the train. That is why we have to draw conclusions from it. The Flemish government does that. SNCB does that for a big piece. We have just heard the efforts of SNCB for bicycle investment. Record amounts are invested in the Flemish region each year. Hundreds of millions are invested in the construction of bicycle paths. Of course, they can only fully render for commuting when they also effectively invite for safe cycling. The security of bicycle parking in the stations is an undeniable part of that. No one's getting into their heads today to park their brand-new electric bike in a station, because that's asking for theft. They're expensive devices. The financial loss could be huge. The need for additional security is therefore very great. If we really are serious about this shift in mobility, we must also make sure that bicycle parking is properly protected. The vast majority of parkings at stations are still unprotected today. More than 460 stations should be without any kind of protection of bicycle parking. So you have a lot of work ahead of you. It is therefore important for SNCB to make sufficient funds available for this purpose. On the other hand, the follow-up and punishment by the police must also be looked at. When I hear that important agreements still have to be made with the Minister for the Interior, I can only encourage you to take an active part in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u110	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, given the documentary nature of your questions Nos 1, 2, 3 and 4, I will send the figures requested to the committee secretariat for inspection. With regard to your questions 5 and 6, Infrabel informs me of the following. Infrabel has an action plan for the prevention of signal collisions. That plan is reviewed every four years. As the 2016-2020 Action Plan ended at the end of last year, a benchmarking exercise was launched. Particular attention was paid to the actions undertaken by European fellow infrastructure managers to counter traffic accidents. The aim was to reintegrate some of the good practices into the renewed 2021-2025 Action Plan. Certain permanent actions, which have been going on for years and are of a continuous nature, are also included in the renewed Action Plan. Each action listed in the Action Plan shall have a deadline or a continuous character. These actions are also regularly monitored by the Infrabel Executive Committee. Some actions were put on hold because of COOVID-19, such as certain exchange days organized by Infrabel between the signalling staff and the train drivers. In the context of the renewed Action Plan, a number of new actions will be launched over the next four years, such as new didactic animations on the most common causes of signal collisions. Each railway undertaking must also raise awareness of its staff and launch new actions within the framework of its own action plan, in order to prevent traffic accidents. Biennially, in June and December, Infrabel organises the so-called SPAD-Desk, presenting the SPAD action plan and the figures on signal collisions. In doing so, railway undertakings will be given the opportunity to ask questions and exchange information. Analyses demonstrate the need to continue investing in safety systems and in particular in the further roll-out of the ERTMS master plan. This system reduces the risk of accidents due to excessive speed or a signal collision. Since the end of 2020, some 30% of the main tracks have been covered by ETCS. This makes Infrabel one of Europe's pioneers in this field. In the coming years, Infrabel will continue its efforts. The objective is to equip 39 % of the rail network with ETCS by the end of 2021 and the entire Belgian rail network by the end of 2025. TBL1+ has been fully realised since the end of 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u111	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u112	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, thank you for your extensive question. I attach great importance to the objective of doubling the modal share of rail freight. My ambition will be translated into a concrete action plan, as I announced earlier. It is premature to announce the content of that action plan today, but we will have the opportunity to return to it. As for your question about the role of Infrabel, creating added value for end customers is at the heart of the Infrabel strategy, as defined in its strategic growth plan. An adaptation of the application system will take the form of the TTR project, Time Table Redesigned, which will be implemented by 2025 among the infrastructure managers of different European countries. Infrabel is active in the TTR pilot project Amsterdam-Antwerp-Paris and has also appointed a TTR implementation manager. The commercial speed of freight trains can be increased by separating the infrastructure for slow trains and fast trains. Thus, fast freight trains are not hindered by slower passenger or freight trains. An extension of two to four tracks on the main freight axes seems necessary. The renewal and maintenance of the existing infrastructure can also increase commercial speed for freight trains. For example, speed limits due to delayed maintenance can be avoided. The construction of new and existing installations where freight trains can egress for a while can increase commercial speed on the entire route. As for your question about real-time data exchange, I can tell you that it is already happening with the Tracker IT application today. As regards international data exchange, the European regulatory framework requires standardisation of the exchange of information between railway operators. Infrabel is very committed to the application of these standards. Railway companies are also involved. Infrabel is one of the most advanced infrastructure managers in this field. As far as consultation with neighbouring countries is concerned, in order to reduce the difficulties in cross-border rail relations, the creation of the Single European Railway Area requires a solution to the specific problems of cross-border relations. The technical specifications on interoperability published by the European Commission have been drawn up precisely for this purpose. In addition to this technical framework, working groups have been set up in which the Member States, the railway sector and the European Commission come together to identify and address the problems that arise on the ground. These issues are also discussed within the rail freight corridors. Finally, problems specific to the local situation can be discussed at bilateral technical meetings between Belgium and its neighbouring countries. That's a very common practice. As far as your question on the future of the freight subsidy is concerned, I have not forgotten the timetable. My administration is currently working on scenarios relating to the future of public support for rail freight transport in Belgium. Finally, as regards your question about the state's contribution to Lineas' capital, I must remind you that Lineas is a private company.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u113	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u114	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, in relation to your first question, I am afraid that this is a lapsus of mine with regard to the preposition used. I meant at the committee meeting of 10 February not before 2022 but in 2022. Of course, I will do everything I can to conclude the best possible contract, both for rail users, railway companies and for the Belgian State. Of course, this will take a long time, as these contracts will have to set ambitious targets for SNCB and Infrabel for the next decade. I prefer a strong contract rather than a seven-speed contract that would not offer the expected future. So far there has been a first stage of discussion, between my administration and my policy cell and the strategic bodies and the management of the two companies. In addition, other stakeholders, such as trade unions and travelers' organisations, will be consulted in the coming months. The proposed approach for these contracts is a ten-year direct award. Just by imposing ambitious, strict and sanctionable quality requirements on railway companies, they will be ready for the challenges they face in ten years' time. As stipulated in the coalition agreement, a pilot project will be set up in a transport region in the south and in the north of the country, where one operator can be identified by tender. Once the modalities of these projects are defined, the scope of the territory to which the direct allocation applies will be adjusted. However, these modalities still need to be worked out, which also requires time. The new contracts will of course not be a whole tabula rasa. The past few years have taught us a lot. Obviously, the world has changed considerably since the previous management contract in 2008. It is the responsibility of the State to give Infrabel and SNCB clear guidelines on the service that is expected from the autonomous public enterprises. Those directives will be the expression of the ambition that this government wants to fulfil and which I set out in my policy statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u115	Mr. Secretary, you gave an interesting explanation. I am concerned about what you said about preparing for liberalisation in the public service contract. You say that it will be extended for 10 years and that they will be prepared for the end of that period. I fear that this is particularly optimistic and that it will not be so simple. We are in favour of the greatest railway reform since the establishment of SNCB in 1926. So that has some feet in the earth. We will be able to use these ten years to make use of all the possibilities and preparations. I hope that this will be effectively mentioned in that public service contract, if not we are heading for the crash in 2033. I hope that you, as the competent minister, will assume your responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u116	Minister, Mrs Jiroflée has been waiting for a very long time. Do you agree that she is the last person to ask her question?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u117	Mr President, yes, I am.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u118	It's the last question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u119	Minister, Envisa is the French study office, which, on behalf of the Minister of Mobility, delivered two reports in 2019 that identified the problems of the air routes. At the Brussels Environmental Strike Order of 9 December 2020, the Belgian State was ordered to request Envisa to supplement its 2019 reports with concrete proposals from alternative scenario scenarios and to assess their impact on noise and capacity. In the judgment, the judge gives the possibility to submit suggestions before 15 February 2021, after which Envisa can in all independence decide which proposals are or are not taken into account. By letter dated 15 February 2021, the municipalities of Haacht, Rotselaar, Aarschot and Holsbeek, together with association Leuven Rechtdoor, ask Envisa to take into account some of the elements they propose. They are not parties to the latter procedure, but of course they are involved. They have appealed against the environmental strike judgment of the Brussels Court of First Instance of 6 April 2016. It is clear that the scenario to be worked out should also take into account the situation in the Leuven region, which, apart from all other routes, can be improved in the very short term by removing the Leuven straight ahead flight route. This route introduced in 2014 is a safety problem, creates additional noise for more residents, makes it more complex for traffic control and causes environmental pollution from additional emissions. The four municipalities and the association Leuven Straight ahead therefore submit a number of principles to Envisa. These principles relate to greater spatial and time distribution and to greater priority for objective, technical evaluations. Minister, do you recognise the problem of the Leuven Straight ahead? What's the status of that file? At what time will Envisa complete her work? In what way will you and this government deal with the results of the additional proposals from Envisa?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u120	Mrs Jiroflée, if you look at the history of Leuven Straight ahead, you will see that there are two groups of residents involved in two different trials. In the Leuven Rechtdoor case, the plaintiffs at first instance, including a number of individuals, associations and municipalities, requested the cessation of the seventh phase of the Wathelet plan. This is the so-called flight route Leuven Straight ahead. The Court of First Instance dismissed the appeal of the original plaintiffs in its entirety in favour of the Belgian State. Consequently, the municipalities of Rotselaar, Haacht, Holsbeek and Aarschot brought an action against the order of the Court of First Instance of 4 July 2016 before the Court of Appeal by means of an interim action. The defendants are, on the one hand, the Belgian State and, on the other hand, the municipalities of Bertem, Oud-Heverlee, Herent and private individuals. The next hearing in the case is scheduled for December 2024. In the Grimbergen case, on 30 May 2018, the Belgian State was ordered by the court of first instance to discontinue all implementing acts from phase 1 to 5 as well as phase 7 of the instruction of 15 March 2012 and 21 June 2012. The defendants in that case are the municipalities of the northern Rand, Grimbergen, Machelen, Meise, Wemmel and Vilvoorde. We can see that the two above-mentioned statements are contradictory. The first file on noise is very similar to the Leuven file, because it is a complex knot, often involving groups of municipalities as well as local residents and associations. As regards Envisa, whose study area was imposed and defined by the judgment of the Brussels Court of First Instance of 9 December 2020 in the case of the Brussels-Capital Region against the Belgian State, the two-part securities study must be held by all parties to the dispute by 1 June 2022 at the latest. As I have already announced, we are in the process of setting up a consultation platform in which the parties can express their views. This is done in parallel with the study carried out by Envisa. As soon as the study is available, it will of course be submitted to the platform and work will begin in consultation with the platform.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u121	Mrs Jiroflée, you will have the last word today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u122	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but you tell me a lot of things I already know. Your story is beginning to look like the story of Minister Bellot, who also always hid behind all the legal proceedings under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u123	Indeed, they are still running.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u124	However, I do not want to compare you. It is true that these procedures have value. In the end, however, the current government will have to ensure that peace is finally achieved over the flight routes, and then a flight law will have to be introduced. It is not possible for this government to postpone this matter for another five years and keep people in trouble. At some point, a government has to lay an egg. In this respect, I believe that this is primarily the federal government. In any case, I hope that you will take seriously the demands of people who are now being taxed much more, while others are no longer taxed. All they're asking is for there to be a fair spread. There is no such thing anymore in the Leuven region. One region gets all the rising and landing traffic, and the other region gets nothing. That's not fair. A fair spread is the only thing that is demanded here. I hope you'll take a really close look at that. Thank you, anyway. Thanks for the extra five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic416x.u125	I felt like talking a little bit about aviation today, so thank you for that.
