ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u1	Questions Nos 55014584C by Mrs Marijke Dillen and 55014812C by Mrs Sophie De Wit are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u2	Colleague, the legislator has set out in the Games of Chance Act a financial criterion to be met by licensees to ensure that they are sufficiently sound. The solvency ratio is used to verify the ability of the company to meet its financial obligations, including its ability to pay the winnings to the players. The minimum ratio to be achieved is 30 per cent for land-based gaming halls, game providers and land-based betting providers, 35 per cent for land-based casinos and 40 per cent for complementary licences. This ratio shall be calculated and verified annually on the basis of accounts deposited and published by the National Bank of Belgium. In the event of non-compliance with the criterion, a file shall be opened within the secretariat with a view to bringing the licensee into compliance with the law. Where appropriate, a sanction procedure may be initiated, which may result in the licence being withdrawn outright. The 2020-based ratio could not yet be established as the annual accounts have not yet been published. As soon as this information is available, holders who do not comply with the ratio will receive a letter requesting information about the company's situation. The situation which constitutes a case of force majeure and which calls for flexibility and tolerance will of course be taken into account. However, in order to avoid abuses, a focus will be placed on companies that do not reach the solvency ratio but have nevertheless paid dividends to shareholders. Experience shows that they are more generally foreign companies. For the accounts for the year 2021, the gambling commission will also remain vigilant in this regard, taking into account the evolution of the health crisis and the closures it entails.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u3	Minister, that's perfect. That's exactly the answer I was waiting for. It goes without saying that those who have profits to distribute cannot at the same time boast that they have reduced their own funds. I would also like to thank you for your hard work in dealing with illegal gambling operators from abroad. For we see that things are moving forward, as you promised in my previous question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament 55014834C by Mrs Zanchetta was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u5	Madam President, Ms Bury, at the beginning of 2020, following two legislative proposals, there was indeed a legal framework for the use of the polygraph. It is true that another KB has to be taken with regard to the technical requirements to be met by the appliance. However, that appears to be said faster than done. Why have no initiatives been taken yet? An initiative has already been taken. In particular, a draft of the KB was drawn up, in cooperation with the police services concerned. Furthermore, the opinions of the relevant Finance Inspectors and the Secretary of State for the Budget have already been requested and the file has already been delivered to the Council of State. However, the opinion of the Council of State contains a number of important technical observations which require amendment of the text. A solution to this is currently being sought. For example, a solution must be found for the formulation of the technical requirements. Initial reference would be made to the ASTM standards, as determined by the American Society for Testing and Materials, but that is not possible. In fact, there are no European legal safeguards when buying a polygraph equipment which refers to American standards. The technical requirements have to comply with European law standards, hence the need to adapt the KB in this respect. As regards your third question, as has just been pointed out, every effort is being made to do so as quickly as possible. As for your fourth question, because of the pandemic, the test was difficult to carry out with respect for health measures. Taking this into account, some tests could only be carried out in August and September. No further tests were carried out after 1 January 2021. This situation cannot therefore arise at the moment, but that does not prevent me from doing everything I can to finalise and publish this royal decree as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You said that some tests were carried out in August and September when the measures were relaxed. Or did I misunderstand you? If that was indeed the case, then that nullity can be invoked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u7	Taking this into account, some tests could only be carried out in August and September. That is indeed what my answer says.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u8	Minister, I understand that you are working on it and that the ASTM standards need an equivalent and that they can be regulated at European level, but it is urgent. The pandemic won't last, either. As far as August and September are concerned, I would advise you to consider what will happen in practice with nullity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u9	Debates of the European Parliament 55014850C by Mrs Dierick will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u10	Minister, the health situation in Namur prison is worrying. Almost 50% of inmates have been contaminated with covid-19 and are confined to their cells. On the staff side, at the time of writing this question, 57 officers were contaminated. The bulk of the contamination forced the management to quarantine the prison in its entirety. If access to showers will be able to resume after extensive disinfection work, visits are always suspended. In addition, as a result of a demonstration, acts of rebellion took place and damage was found in the prison. After a general test within the prison, the extent of the contamination is intractable. What measures are being implemented to stem this proliferation of covid-19? How could this cluster appear in this prison? Have the basic recommendations for covid-19 been met? What measures will be taken with regard to staff? Following the demonstration of the prisoners' relatives, rebellion took place and the prison suffered damage. Can you specify the extent of this damage? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u11	Dear colleague, the extent of contamination in Namur prison was indeed significant, as 61 cases of covid-19 were detected among prisoners between 16 and 24 February. Similarly, 40 officers were also affected. This situation required a full lockdown of the prison as early as 19 February. Over the past few days, the situation has been improving. There are now only 23 positive prisoners left. On 9 March, a cleaning company intervened to enable the prison to restart its activities in good conditions because, with the gradual return of the officers and the number of sick prisoners decreasing, the whole prison gradually regains a normal rhythm and activities. The origin of this cluster is difficult to determine. It could be linked to prisoners who, through their work, have generated contacts between separate bubbles of prisoners. Another explanation may be linked to the work currently under way in the prison. This work requires cell changes that may have triggered the situation. The usual basic recommendations for covid-19 had been met. With regard to staff, all staff were invited to be tested and, for contacts with infected detainees, the wearing of conventional protections in such cases (chasuble, charlotte, gloves and FFP2 mask) had even been reinforced by visors. With regard to your second question on incidents, I confirm that there have been a lot of destruction of objects and furniture in the cell. The balance sheet remains to be drawn up. External platforms also caught fire as a result of jetting through the windows of various inflamed objects. The officers reacted quickly enough to extinguish these emerging fires and the situation calmed down at the end of the evening. There were two placements in a prison cell for inmates who, in addition to these incidents, threw glass bottles at the officers through the windows during their intervention. That said, these isolated incidents are not representative, on the contrary. Rather, I would like to emphasize the calmness of the inmates and their reasonable attitude. It has been a shared element in all institutions for a year now. In the face of the restrictions faced by the pandemic, the inmates had an attitude that must be emphasized as resilient and reasonable. Everyone seems to have understood that it is responsible and prudent behaviour that is the best chance of reducing the risks present in confined environments at risk that all prisons are.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u12	Minister, thank you for all your specific explanations. It is a good thing that the situation is gradually improving. I also appreciate hearing the exemplary attitude of the inmates, which you stress. But, obviously, the situation in Namur prison is not unique. I was able to read in the press two days ago that a wing of the prison in Saint-Gilles had been placed in quarantine for fourteen days because of the risk of covid contamination. Of course, we hope that everything will be in order as soon as possible there, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u13	Madam President, Minister, for several months, places of worship have, without distinction, been limited to fifteen people, with the result that some of them have been closed down altogether. This measure affects a little more every day the many believers who live in our country and find themselves constrained in the expression and exercise of their spirituality. At the end of January, representatives of Roman, Protestant, evangelical, Israelite, Anglican, Islamic and Orthodox Catholic cults sent you a common letter, calling for the rule to be reviewed and adapted according to the available surface, accepting, for example, one person for ten square meters. A hundred of them demonstrated in Brussels last month. For almost a year, the rules on this matter have changed many times: proportionality to the available surface, celebrations outside, total closure, and then rule of fifteen. Minister, how is the current rule justified today? What is the logic of seeing a small country church be able to welcome as many faithful as the great cathedral of Saints Michael and Gudule? Do you have, with hindsight, data saying that the current rule is more effective than the previous rule limiting the number of people according to the number of square meters? In France, for example, the rule is to occupy only one row in two and one seat in two. To your knowledge, has this action led to more contamination in places of worship? Finally, how do you envisage the evolution of this rule in the coming weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u14	Madam President, Mr De Maegd, religious freedom is a fundamental constitutional right. I have no distinction between different cults. For this reason, on 9 December, I held a meeting with representatives of each of those recognized. Together, we have measured the importance of religious freedom and the risks of its collective exercise in terms of public health. In view of the negative corona figures at that time, and again now, we have agreed to allow a maximum of fifteen people simultaneously in a place of prayer. We also agreed to evaluate this agreement as soon as the figures would allow. Indeed, in mid-January, the various representatives of the recognized cults sent me a letter containing the proposal for a relaxation of the rule of fifteen. On 26 January, we held a meeting again and, given that the figures did not yet allow for easing, we agreed not to lighten this rule. On 19 February, in preparation for the 26 February Concertation Committee, representatives of the recognized cults sent me a new letter, in which the same request was made. I told them that we would certainly discuss it when the relaxation of the Corona rules would be considered. As you know, at the Consultation Committee on 26 February, no relaxation was possible, given the increase in hospitalization figures. I come to your question about the logic of a small church and a cathedral. This question is relevant. At the meeting on 9 December, it was important to agree on a simple rule. Instead of retaining the idea of one person per ten square meters, it was decided to limit the number to fifteen persons for places of worship. Since then, a decision of the Council of State has confirmed this rule of 15 persons. I would point out that there is no reference here to the original judgment which served as the basis for the discussion on 9 December and the adjustment of the ministerial order. To answer your question as to whether we now have evidence, Mr De Maegd, know that we rely on information provided by the scientific experts of the Committee of Experts on Management Strategy. It is obvious that people who gather inside are at greater risk of spreading the virus or being infected with the virus. That is why, on 9 December, I agreed with the representatives of the cults on the rule I spoke about. As for the rule prevailing in France, it is different. You asked me if, to my knowledge, it had led to more contamination. I honestly do not have exact figures from France in particular. I will not comment on the rules of application in this country. Nor will I say that there is more contamination in France than in Belgium. We have no evidence of this. What is the plan for the coming weeks? I am listening to the requests of religious representatives, as is the case with Kern and the Concertation Committee. Within the framework of the Consultation Committee of 5 March, it was decided to authorise a number of outdoor activities. I explicitly asked to add cults to culture and event. So, from April 1st, collective worships will be allowed outside with a maximum of 50 people at a time. As agreed with the representatives of the cults, we will grant them relaxation as soon as possible. Relaxations for domestic activities, including the increase of the 15-person limit for collective worship services inside – for example, the presence of one person per ten square metres, as you propose – will be planned as early as May. We still need to discuss the modalities of this, as we still need to discuss the modalities for the Horeca sector. I obviously don't want to compare this sector with cults. There must be no misunderstanding. Until March 31, 2021, the rule of fifteen remains in force for all religions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am the spokesman for many of the faithful who are calling me as a Member of Parliament and who rightly do not understand this limitation on their freedom to worship. I am one of those who think that faith and religion belong to the private sphere, but here it is the state that interferes in the private affairs of practitioners. However, as you pointed out, freedom of worship is a constitutional right in Belgium. Limiting to fifteen the number of faithful, regardless of the size of the church, synagogue, mosque, is a nonsense in terms of health, as is accepting 50 people at funerals but only 15 for other ceremonies. In reality, what is needed is an acceptable standard and, in order for it to be acceptable to the faithful, practitioners, it must be understandable according to square metres, specifically taking into account the risk of transmission of the virus that would be objected to by scientists (one person per ten square metres, for example). I repeat: fifteen faithful in a small chapel is not the same as fifteen faithful in a large church or cathedral like that of Saints Michel and Gudule. On behalf of all those concerned, regardless of their religion, I ask you, minister, to plead within the government the measured enlargement towards common-sense measures. You said that as early as April 1st, it will be possible to hold offices outside. But what the faithful and the practitioners want is to go inside the religious buildings. You evoke this prospect of May for one person by ten square meters inside. Minister, I think that perhaps we can speed up this process simply because churches, buildings, mosques, synagogues allow it. At this time when mental health is heavily affected, as you know, for believers, the practice of worship is something that is eminently important. Not being able to exercise it can lead to profound problems of personal ill-being. As a political leader, Minister, you must take the measure. Thank you for going in that direction within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u16	Minister, from an article in De Standaard this March 5, it is noted that crime, excluding covid-19 offences, experienced a significant decline in the first half of 2020. While the decline appears to be clearly linked to the health crisis and containment, such a decline can only be welcomed. For example, the figures show that this decline covers virtually all types of criminal offences (excluding covid-19 offences), including vandalism (down 18 per cent), assault (down 17 per cent) and homicide (down 8 per cent). It would seem, however, that one category unfortunately escapes this trend: cybercrime offences. Indeed, figures in our possession, it appears that computer fraud has increased by 6% while Internet scams have increased by almost 20% compared to the first half of 2019. Also, my questions are as follows. What are your approaches and knowledge of this particular problem of cybercrime with the two elements mentioned? Are the various trends found confirmed in the second half of 2020? Does our judicial arsenal, mainly criminal, allow the various actors on the ground (investigators, prosecutors and magistrates) to fight effectively against the increase in cybercrime? Are you able to quantify the number of annual criminal convictions related to cybercrime? Are specific means devoted to the fight against cybercrime? If we know that local and federal police services are specifically dedicated to this issue, is the same true of the Public Prosecutor's Office? This question, of course, is particularly topical following the great operation that took place yesterday and on which you were able to express yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u17	Mr President, during the pandemic, there has been a sharp increase in this crime and I fear that this will still be the case in the coming months and years. The rising trend of cybercrime is well known. Cybercrime has progressed for several years in parallel with the digitization of society. Coronavirus has further increased this phenomenon as a result of the increase in telework and e-commerce. According to the information provided to me by the Public Prosecutor's Office, this trend is continuing for the second half of 2020. Our legislative arsenal is well equipped to deal with the increase in cybercrime offences both in substantive criminal law and in procedural criminal law. With regard to criminal procedure, the Code of Criminal Investigation had also been modernised to better equip the judicial authorities to combat cybercrime. This does not prevent cybercrime from creating many challenges. In recent weeks, I have already focused on the subject on several occasions in our committee following questions raised by colleagues. These challenges relate to the specialization of the police and prosecutors, specialized equipment and also the field of investigations, as cybercrime is rampant in the global cyberspace that knows no borders. To cite only these challenges, we are working on them. With regard to the Federal Judicial Police more specifically, hundreds of functions (450 in total) have been declared vacant since the last mobility in 2020. The aim is to fill the shortage of staff and to be able to work fully, among other things, to combat cybercrime. The specific profiles needed to investigate and prosecute cybercrime are difficult to recruit from existing frameworks and scales. The pool of potential candidates is in fact very much sought after, mainly by the private sector. In this area, the federal police are also looking for solutions. Investigators are also confronted with the complexity of territoriality and the ever-increasing encryption of cyberspace, not to mention the sometimes difficult collaboration in the area of data sharing, particularly between social media platforms and police services. Finally, there is also the judgment delivered at the beginning of October by the European Court of Justice in the field of data retention, which is not a gift in this respect. We're trying to fix it. With regard to your fourth question, since cybercrime is a phenomenon that does not correspond to the criminal charges provided for in the Criminal Code, it is not easy to provide precise figures in this regard. I have asked the Public Prosecutor's Office about this, but given the very short time frame and the fact that it is an oral question, I am not in a position to provide figures today. I'll send you the answers as soon as they're in my possession. I will do whatever is necessary to provide them to you. With regard to your fifth question, yes, each prosecutor has one or more judges specializing in cybercrime. It should be noted, however, that in addition to cybercrime cases, the majority of these magistrates also deal with ordinary law cases. The Federal Public Prosecutor's Office has a cyber unit composed of three magistrates and one prosecutor's lawyer. We also want to expand the capacity of the Public Prosecutor's Office in this area. We will do so within the framework of the famous 125 million euros still to be spent this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u18	Minister, thank you for not sending me a written question because you will be very proactive in sending me the answers to questions that I did not ask. It's very good like that. More seriously, I note with satisfaction that there are 450 vacancies that you wish to fill with the commitment of very specific profiles. You're right. It is difficult to be attractive in the function, given the framework and the scales. Perhaps there is a reflection to be made on that. It is indeed a reality that we know and we know that it takes high-level people to live up to the threat of cybercrime. You say cybercrime knows no borders. I obviously share that view. I think that a minimum approach at European level would be very useful. I will not fail to go back to this particular theme of Europe to see if our other European partners have the same willingness to cooperate usefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u19	Mrs Van Peel attends another committee, her question No. 55015096C may be postponed if it cannot be present before we conclude our committee work. Question No 55015134C by Mr Van Hecke is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u20	In the meantime, Minister, we all know that the corona crisis and the accompanying measures are cutting our entrepreneurs, shops and catering companies very hard. The shops, unlike the catering industry, may be open at the moment, but they also receive less income than in normal circumstances. Everyone is, unfortunately, expecting a real wave of bankruptcies and takeovers after all the corona measures have been lifted. This can be the case not only for things that were already in bad papers before, but also for previously healthy commercial transactions. We must avoid that. However, there is another risk, namely the risk that things that have fallen into bad papers as a result of the corona crisis and are in need of external investors, possibly, perhaps even unconsciously, will get involved with criminal elements. In the crisis, they see first of all an opportunity to deal with their criminal funds. If they hadn't had corona, maybe they wouldn't have gotten that easy. These are for example the pizza shops where no pizza is sold, but where the light always burns and is always someone. I don't have to draw a picture. In the Netherlands there is already a lot of attention to this and a lot of rumors are going around. During the first lockdown in the Netherlands, the Regional Information and Expertise Centre conducted a survey which showed that 10% of operators from catering, retail and tourism had, unsolicited, received an offer from an unknown investor. That was already the case with the first lockdown, but we are now a year further. In that year the catering industry was more closed than open and so it is even more vulnerable to the so-called 'wrong helpers'. Money may be accepted to move forward, but at what price will it be? In the short term, what may appear to be the only solution to overcome the problems could, in the longer term, cause even greater problems for these companies. Do you have a view of the extent of the possible problem in Belgium? If this happens in the Netherlands, it does not seem unlikely that this can happen in Belgium, especially in the cities. Have you discussed this with the Minister of Economy? If so, are measures taken to warn entrepreneurs of such dangers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u21	Mrs De Wit, your question does indeed seem more topical than ever after yesterday's unseen judicial action on Tuesday 9 March 2021, which revealed that police and justice have a direct view of criminal networks and activities. Nevertheless, it remains difficult to give a figure of the scale of the problem in our country. The Cell for Financial Information Processing or CFI only has a view of part of the story. Since August 2020, after the first general lockdown, the CFI has noted in several files and analyses of money laundering by drug criminals that the large amount of cash in both the hospitality and retail sectors makes them particularly vulnerable to investments and acquisitions of criminal origin. This is certainly the case in times of economic crisis when many companies are threatened with bankruptcy. Criminal interference can take place in a semi-formal manner, by taking over shares or investments directly, whether or not combined with the appointment of a new manager. Often it will be more about mixing illegal income with the turnover of a company that mainly works with cash. For example, cases that may indicate criminal interference are large cash payments by companies with limited real turnover or abnormal repayments of bridging credits, provided as a result of the covid crisis to companies in need, or for example unexplained transfers between accounts of catering companies and companies in other sectors, such as the construction sector, which may also point to the so-called compensation technique, which we often see in money laundering files. In reply to your second question, the Financial Information Processing Cell or CFI is working with Economy, including in the context of the national risk analysis on money laundering. In recent times, the problem of passing on criminal money in cash-intensive sectors has been discussed and studied at all possible levels. Among other things, it involved the risk of taking over catering or other cash-intensive companies, which are then used as a front, to deposit undeclared money into the bank accounts of the companies concerned in cash money. These payments are justified on the basis of commercial operations in cash, which, however, in reality do not exist, or by cash mixed with resources from real activities. This phenomenon will now emerge even more as a result of the crisis linked to the health crisis. In the supranational risk analysis on money laundering and terrorist financing, the European Commission reached similar conclusions. In reply to your third question on the warning, I can inform you that the CFI has placed a warning on its website to warn both the subject entities and the public about the risks of takeovers by criminal networks of companies in financial difficulties due to the health crisis of COVID-19. You can find that warning there. However, I also think it would be a good idea, in our contacts with employers' organisations and business organisations, to remind them of the risks involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is indeed up to date. Yesterday we heard that the criminals are devouring their way to the upper world. This is also an expression of this. I think we should be very aware of this threat. We really need to prepare for it, if not, we are only going to undermine those sectors even more. I think we really need to make sure that after corona the wrong money doesn't come. There is a task for several bodies, not only for Justice, but also for Economics, for example. I hear initiatives have already been taken. I hear you want to warn me further. I really think it's gonna be necessary. Otherwise, after the Corona disaster, a new disaster awaits us. That is something we must all try to avoid.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u23	Mr Minister, this is indirectly in line with the current situation, even though it has been a problem for some time now, particularly with regard to data retention and the problems surrounding it. There is now the new judgment of the Court of Justice of 2 March 2021, which may also affect the investigation and prosecution policy in our country. As I said earlier, it is not the first judgment to be dropped on data retention and the use of these data in criminal investigations. It must be said that it is becoming increasingly difficult for our detectives to detect perpetrators of crime. This seems to be the case again with the new judgment. The Court states that access for investigative services to electronic communications data from which precise conclusions on privacy can be drawn is permissible only for the purposes of combating serious crime and a serious threat to public security. Furthermore, the judgment states that restrictions on the duration of the information requested or the quantity of data requested do not affect the validity of the decision. These were measures with which we could still make something possible, but the Court says that it does not bring about anything. My questions are therefore very simple. Access to data retention is very important for our investigators, especially for the success of certain investigations. Has an analysis already been made of the implications this judgment may have on our country, on the functioning of our investigators and judicial investigations? What implications are we talking about? But more importantly, how can this be remedied, among other things by you?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u24	Madam President, Mrs De Wit, I have indeed taken note of the new judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on 2 March. I can tell you that the analysis of the judgment is still under way in the various administrations concerned. At the moment, therefore, I do not want to draw far-reaching conclusions on the content of the judgment, but we do see that this ruling is broadly in line with what the Court of Justice had already decided in its judgments of 6 October 2020. It is therefore not surprising that the Court limits access to traffic and location data to cases of serious crime or the prevention of serious threats to public security. This is consistent with previous court rulings. The question that arises is what is meant by serious crime. At present, Article 88a of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for a requirement of proportionality for offences that are punishable by a year's imprisonment or a heavier sentence. This is consistent with other investigative measures such as the arrest order. I therefore continue to believe that, for me, serious crime is the crime that is punishable by a prison sentence of one year or more. At the same time, it is important to be aware of the cases in which access to data is essential, such as in the case of online stalking and online fraud. These are not always serious crimes, but they are characterised by an exclusively digital character. For such forms of crime, access to communication data is simply indispensable, in reality. This point is also discussed in the ongoing discussions in the government's bosom on the recovery legislation relating to data retention after the judgment of 6 October and the forthcoming judgment of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u25	Mr Minister, the most important analysis of the judgments is that if we do not find a solution to this problem, we will shut down our judicial investigations. That is one of the most important methods they have for investigators, so it will be a very difficult story if it is put to death, especially in the present times, but one will always find something new, of course. It is striking how much one attaches to the protection of privacy around data retention, while at other levels it is considered much less necessary. I realise that this is a difficult balance, but it will be important for us to pay attention to it in the recovery legislation, which we hope will come soon, because the government is still talking about it. In this way the sword of Damocles can be taken away and we can continue with it. There must be a reasonable arrangement with which we can and with which we can work well on the ground, which everyone hopes and expects. However, I have not heard any timing, so we will certainly follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u26	This is an interesting question and I learn every day because the answer goes in the same direction. Why aren't both exams organised on the same day? First of all, it should be noted that the Supreme Court of Justice is a constitutional and independent sui generis body, as you do know, and that the organisation of examinations which grant access to the Magistrate is an exclusive competence. I will therefore give you in my reply the information that the Council has given me. The Supreme Court of Justice informs me that it is very difficult for the exams for both language roles to take place on the same day, given the large number of participants. After all, Selor's accommodation is called upon to keep the cost picture of the organisation of the examinations manageable. Specifically, this year, due to the impact of covid, was chosen to work in even smaller groups, which split the exam legal internship on Dutch and French-speaking sides in two days. The responsibility for drawing up the exams is not mine. Maybe there was a time when the Minister of Justice did, but I don't. The examination programmes are prepared and approved within the Supreme Court by the Joint Appointment and Appointment Committee by the General Assembly and subsequently endorsed by the Minister of Justice in a ministerial decision. This year's decision concerns the ministerial decision of 24 August concerning the comparative entrance examination to the judicial internship. The effective organisation of the examinations is the responsibility of the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking appointment and appointment committees. The specific examination committees set up for this purpose in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Justice shall consist of as many magistrates as non-magistrates. The case shall be drawn up in consultation with the members of the Examination Board. The examinations have a similar degree of difficulty both on the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking sides. Moreover, that degree of difficulty depends not only on the subject, but also on the substantive and procedural aspects of the case. The average success rate over the various years is, by the way, similar. In 2017-2018 the success rate on the Dutch-speaking side was 10,75 % and on the French-speaking side was 24,56 %. In 2018-2019 the success rate on the Dutch-speaking side was 22.99 % and on the French-speaking side was 21.42 %. In 2019-2020, i.e. the past year, the success rate on the Dutch-speaking side was 25.37 % and on the French-speaking side 16.00 %. Moreover, it concerns a comparative examination per language role, so that there is only a comparison of candidates who have taken the same examination. On the French-speaking side, too, there was already a case in the past about moral facts. This subject is very relevant to society, by the way. Future magistrates may be expected to be able to deal with such delicate matters, to give them the appropriate legal consequences and to correctly assess their societal impact. Now I come to your question on the example questions. On the French-speaking side it was indeed opted for the publication of a number of good exams. On the Dutch side, the previous appointment and appointment committees decided not to work in this way, just because of the specific nature of the exam. After all, there is a great deal of importance attached to the legal and social reasoning of candidates, which allows for several solutions. The current Dutch appointment and recruitment committee has slightly modified the examination assignment this year, so that no example can be made available. Consideration is being given to the future working methods of the French-speaking appointment and recruitment committees. In addition, the candidates obtained a lot of information about what is expected of them during the previous digital information session, which was already the case in the past. Experience shows that good preparation significantly increases candidates' chances of success. Finally, the answer to your last question on Potpourri V reform in 2017. The Supreme Court of Justice intends to review the judicial internship during the upcoming mandate and to carry out a reflection on it. She will do so with other actors, such as the Institute of Judicial Training, the Chiefs of Staff, the internship counselors and judicial trainees. That is part of their plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Perhaps at the moment, with the corona crisis, it's a little more difficult to get it all organized and make all the exams take place at the same time. I certainly hope that anyone who has access to the same profession can do so under the same conditions and the same level, because that is why the exam is organised. We need a strong magistrate, and those exams should be on the verge of it. I hear that it is being considered to make those examples available in the future, so that everyone has the same information to take part in the exam.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u28	The major research that has been going through the media since yesterday and which you referred to a few times this afternoon has been unseen. It's called the biggest operation ever. Home and abroad attract big eyes. Superlatives are being used, and that is absolutely right. The action required years of preparation. So it seems to be very strong work by all police forces under the leadership of the federal prosecutor. By deciphering the codes of encrypted and highly secure mobile phones, it has been possible to infiltrate the organised crime environment. We've been getting a lot of news from the media. In the meantime, 17 tons of cocaine and 1.2 million euros were found, 48 arrests were carried out, searched 200 places and 1,600 police officers were involved. Those are hallucinating numbers. This special action, which brings with it a great deal of work over the next few weeks and months, has undoubtedly already required enormous numbers of people and resources from the judiciary and the police, otherwise we will not achieve such a result. Minister, what information can you still share with the Chamber, particularly our committee, about this large-scale action?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u29	Thank you for your pertinent question, which was asked in a very timely manner. I cannot, of course, make a detailed statement on the investigation in question. I think the text and explanation yesterday by the federal prosecutor, the FGP Antwerp, the director of the FGP and the prosecutor of the King of Antwerp were very clear. I would like to add a few things. It is indeed an investigation without previous, the biggest judicial action ever in Belgium. More than 1,600 policemen were involved. More than 200 searches were made. The investigation illustrates that organized crime is getting worse. She buys in in the regular social superstructure. Organised crime ravages the city centre of Antwerp with violence and grenades. We can't accept that. The investigation is a beginning of answer. The file illustrates that criminals use high-tech equipment to stay out of the clutches of police and justice. These are encrypted communications services, as explained at the press conference. The provider made it clear that decryption of this is impossible. That wasn't supposed to be our police and the Justice Department. It must be true that the police and the judiciary are by definition lagging behind in the fight against organised crime, but in the case in question we have managed to make a serious catch-up movement. I am very grateful to the police and to the Justice Department for that. The dossier has required a lot of innovation, creativity, flexibility and investment from our police and Justice, and in particular from the FGP in Antwerp. These efforts have generated a wealth of information, which is now being analysed and used for further research. More than ever, serious organised crime is an international phenomenon. Criminals are not stopped by borders. We can only strike that kind of crime through international cooperation. The dossier is also an illustration of this. There is close cooperation with many foreign international partners, under the coordination of Europol. At the national level, the dossier has an impact on almost all the parquets and all the FGPs in our country. The coordination thus took place in an ad hoc structure, led by the College of Attorneys General, under the direction of the federal prosecutor and the Director-General of the judicial police. That chain of command is also unseen. Here the impact is monitored. Here, flexible and available capacity can be oriented and reoriented in police and parquet. So it's a matter for the whole country. It's not just about an FGP or an arrondissement. There are tentacles all over the country. The arrests that were made yesterday led to arraignments, not only with the investigating judge in Mechelen, but also with other investigators. It's not just the federal prosecutor, which coordinates, along with the FGP. The College of Attorneys General, led by President Johan Delmulle, is also closely involved in this, as the investigation has an impact on the functioning of all public prosecutors in our country. Let it be clear, the results are not coincidental; they have arrived thanks to a lot of preparation. We will now also make progress step by step. The government has made the fight against organised crime a top priority. We didn't just say that, we did. That's proven by this. It's not just about organized drug crime, it's about criminals, smugglers, wholesalers, exhalers, dealers, who make huge amounts of money on the hood of our public health. When I look at Europol's reports, there can be no doubt. Organised drug crime is the criminal industry that is the most criminal money involved. The amounts that go there are insane. It attracts criminals abroad and inland, all trying to steal a grain. This makes the temptation for some people very great, who provide hand and span services for a very large amount of money and are corrupted in this way. Mrs Gabriels, when the government took office, Mrs Verlinden and I, at the FGP in general, but in Antwerp in particular, found an FGP with a serious staff shortage. Did you know that the fleet of the FGP Antwerp is so outdated that you can't even drive into the city centre of Antwerp? That was the situation I found on October 1st, when the government took office. That is the bitter reality. Instead of fetching on that, we immediately got to work. The big boss of the FGP, Mr Snoeck, appointed at the end of last year, has drawn up a very strategic plan to strengthen and arm the judicial pillar to meet the challenges. That plan determines the direction of the march. That's important. What have we done in the meantime and what are we still doing? First there is the material reinforcement of the FGP, especially the FGP Antwerp. We have realized the purchase of high-tech material for the FGP and the federal prosecutor. For that, we released almost EUR 1 million by the end of 2020. Secondly, within the framework of the RFF, the European Recovery Fund, we want to strengthen the NTSU, the Federal Police Department responsible for the interception of telecommunications. We have submitted a project of 22 million euros to do so. This is in addition to the EUR 10 million we had earmarked for this project in the global envelope of EUR 125 million to be invested in budget. That is EUR 32 million to strengthen this service. As far as staff reinforcement is concerned, we declared 450 places vacant at the end of 2020 and early 2021, of which 100 for the FGP Antwerp. This is also about specialised profiles such as IT experts and analysts. In addition to those 100 people, we will send additional 25 people from the NTSU to the FGP of Antwerp. Here, too, we are dealing with specialised profiles. So that's 125 extra people. The recruitment and training of these people does not, of course, take place overnight. To close that gap, we have been working for weeks to temporarily attract specialised IT profiles from the private sector. So, no cumbersome structure of recruitment, but dare to work flexibly, I insisted on that. It is about consultancy, but specifically in the domain of cyber and IT and, of course, with guarantees of integrity. For this purpose, a specific task force was established within the federal police. This will also address the side flow of operational experts. These are people with specific qualifications and competences that we need to deploy immediately. With regard to the strengthening of staff in the Justice Department, shortly after my appointment, Mrs Gabriels, we decided in silence to provide for reinforcement specifically for the Antwerp parquet and the seat. We've cleared budgets for 61 extra people. Of these, 56 are already active today. Those are not promises, they are achievements. These are staff who can be deployed immediately, such as public prosecutors, in order to be able to provide sufficient support for cases that are ongoing today. It is important to know that the starting point here is not necessarily the lack of magistrates, but rather the lack of proper legal and other support for those people. In concrete terms, it concerns 30 people in the public prosecutor's office, 28 of whom have already started, and 31 people in front of the seat, 28 of whom have also started. Most of them are for the purposes of the Antwerp justice system. So, those who ask for more investment in Antwerp can see that we are not just promising that, but also doing so. With the additional budgets for Justice, we will further strengthen the Office and its seat for the fight against organised crime, crime and cybercrime, including the benefit-oriented operation and criminal execution investigations. In concrete terms, we are talking about at least 20 magistrates in front of the public prosecutors alone this year. However, the recruitment of magistrates does not take place from today to tomorrow, hence the punctual reinforcement of 61 people I spoke of. We have also decided to send an additional magistrate to Eurojust for the necessary international coordination in this dossier. An extra experienced cybermagistraat will be seconded to the federal prosecutor's office this week to work on this file. We are releasing EUR 3.5 million for the purchase of 125 new vehicles for the FGP Antwerp. In addition, seized vehicles may also be made available to the judicial police. We are now talking about 40 vehicles. If we add up everything on human resources, we are talking about more than 200 extra people in the area of justice and police in the fight against organised crime. We are very aware of the need for this and have not waited for this to be decided, Mrs Gabriels, because you have just heard what has already happened and what is still planned. I now turn to your specific questions. There were 214 searches. Fortunately, there were no unforeseen problems. I would also like to express my gratitude to all the services of the police and the public prosecutor for this very delicate but well-executed operation. You also asked how long the investigation lasted. The real breakthrough in the file was the crackling of the code: something that specialists thought impossible, we succeeded. Immediately after I took office, I was briefed on this dossier, as were some of my colleagues in the government. At that time we did not hesitate to release the necessary capacity, what happened. It was an international concerted action. Among other things, the Netherlands and other countries I cannot go into detail as well as Europol were involved. There's no link to the infiltration and dismantling of EncroChat. You also asked whether only drug dealers or other persons were endorsed. It is important that you know that the saisine of the federal investigation is focused on Sky ECC, the network, the resellers and the distributors. 48 arrests have been made, leading to arraignment for different investigators. What are these people suspected of? It's about membership of a criminal organization, that's the criminalisation. It is also about money laundering of criminal assets benefits from the sale of Sky ECC. You also asked if the suspects have international ties. That is actually the case. What's been impounded? It concerns phones, not only ordinary but also the cryptophones that are now known to the public, weapons, luxury goods, police uniforms, beacons and cash. I can confirm that weapons were found during the search, namely nine illegal weapons and six firearms.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive explanation. There is rightly a great deal of gratitude for the various police and judicial services involved in the investigation. All we can do is give these people a big plume. Organised crime, individuals and groups that threaten our security on a daily basis, has been hit hard. I would also like to hear you say that this is only a start. Keep the war on drugs active. This should not only be done in Antwerp, although there is a huge problem there. You were right to say that there are branches everywhere in our country. The problem has also increased enormously in recent years, even in rural areas. I thank you for the overview of the people and resources that have recently been deployed to support this research. You had also announced in your policy letter that you would do this. Keep working on that, along with your services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic407x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Peel's 55015096C was postponed.
