ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u1	Mr President, Minister, many reintegration measures are being developed through Fedris for certain categories of long-term sick. However, we can see that these reintegration routes are actually tailored to the larger companies with their own company doctor and their own job prevention and protection service. Many small employers and companies do not have them in their homes and therefore lack these necessary skills to improve the re-employment of long-term sick people. Are you aware of that gap in the projects proposed by Fedris? What initiatives can you take to also involve the very large group of long-term sick who work for small self-employed or small businesses in Fedris' projects? Can you indicate how many long-term sick people work in companies that do not have their own prevention and protection service at work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u2	Mr President, Madam People's Representative, Fedris has actually confirmed the assumption that it does not organise reintegration routes for long-term sick people in the strict sense of the word. Your questions seem to be within the competence of the RIZIV, which, of course, deals with procedures for persons who are long-term ill. I refer, for example, to my answer to oral question No. 55016935C by Mrs Van Peel on that subject. At Fedris there are other possibilities for reintegration, for example if a person agrees to a proposal for permanent cessation of the professional activity due to occupational disease. In the event of an occupational disease, a person may, upon cessation of his activity, seek vocational retraining at the expense of Fedris. In the case of an accident at work the need for professional rehabilitation and retraining is considered necessary, the insurance undertaking shall bear the costs. There is therefore a possibility of retraining on behalf of Fedris or the insurer in certain cases. Those two examples do not relate to long-term sick persons in the strict sense which are borne by the RIZIV. If you do have certain routes in mind, you should specify them, perhaps in a written question, so that I can give you a more targeted answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u3	Minister, we will continue to draw attention to the small employers and we do not want a policy of punishment, but support and incentive. We had hearings at the beginning of May 2021. There again emphasis was placed on the importance of internal services for prevention and protection at work. As I said in my question, it seems to us rather to be tailored to the large companies. But there is a very high level of employment among small employers, those who employ only one or a few employees. The external services to which small employers are obliged hardly play a role in the workplace. It has become an annual compulsory contribution with little or nothing against it. Not to punish, but to support, it is very important that these small self-employed workers, who nevertheless represent a large group of employers, be supported. This is in the interests of everyone, the employer, the employee and the whole of society. I will certainly not fail to ask you any specific written questions on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament 55017315C is my own, but I have just informed the committee secretary that I want to turn this question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u5	United Nations Security Council resolution 2334 requires States to distinguish between Israeli national territory and settlements in their bilateral relationship with the Hebrew State. The effective application of a policy of differentiation in bilateral treaties with Israel is therefore not only a necessity, but also an international obligation. As far as our country is concerned, the "differenciation tracker" of the pan-European think tank ECFR, which lists agreements which do not contain specific clauses for differentiation, identifies several texts. These include the Convention on Social Security between the Kingdom of Belgium and the State of Israel, concluded in 2014 and in force since 2017. In this regard, other nations are more scrupulous than we are. To take just one example, and in a field other than social security, in Switzerland, a couple of settlers from East Jerusalem have recently been denied a refund of tax sought on the basis of an agreement between the Swiss Confederation and Israel to avoid double taxation. The reason given was that their address was outside the borders as recognized by Switzerland, in particular on the basis of international law. Here's the way to go. In recent years, other countries have made it very clear, most often in response to parliamentary questions, that their bilateral agreements do not apply in the occupied areas. This was particularly the case in the Netherlands, Ireland and France. Thus, the government agreement provides for the deepening of the policy of differentiation. I would therefore like to ask you what Belgium is implementing so that the Convention on Social Security cannot benefit Belgian nationals living in the colonies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the question to which you refer is well known. I will refer to the report of the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs of 20 April 2016 which discussed the social security agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium and the State of Israel which was established in Jerusalem on 24 March 2014. The then Foreign Minister made it clear that the agreement had an effect only on Israeli territory as recognised by Belgium. The representative of the then Minister of Social Affairs said: "With regard to the territorial application of the agreement, he said that a person working in the occupied territories would not be allowed by Belgium to benefit from the provisions on secondment, but that person would be able to benefit from the social benefits granted by Israel on the basis of his own legislation." As regards the Belgian benefits covered by this Treaty, I draw attention to the fact that Belgians and nationals of countries with which a multi- or bilateral social security treaty is concluded receive these benefits regardless of their country of residence. Finally, taking into account the periods of insurance completed in Israel, which are, where appropriate, added to the Belgian insurance periods in order to qualify for a Belgian benefit, will only be taken into account if they have been completed in the territory recognised by Belgium. In this case, and to be honest, we depend on Israel's goodwill to provide details about the workplace. It might very well be that one person lives in the occupied territories, while working in the unoccupied territories and thus accumulates periods of insurance there without the help of the Israeli authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u7	I thank the Minister for his answer. I will also refer to the 2016 parliamentary debates and the response of the then minister. I refer my questions to the government agreement on the need to deepen the policy of differentiation in a context where evidence suggests that Israel's policy in the Palestinian territories and in Israeli territory is a policy of apartheid. I remind the minister that in 1994 he became Minister of Foreign Affairs a few months after Nelson Mandela came to the presidency of South Africa. With this memory, the debate we have just had takes on a particular meaning. I'll pay attention to the follow-up we'll give to this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u8	I remember it well, and I met Mr Mandela at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u9	Mr Minister, I have asked you a lot of written questions which lead to new questions, I fear. That is the case with my written question No 429 on the number of assessments carried out by medical consultants on persons already in receipt of invalidity benefits with a view to re-evaluating entitlement to that benefit. You share with me the concern that we need to pay more attention to what employees can still do instead of denying them binary opportunities. It is now clear that there are considerable differences between the national federations as to the number of assessments in which the disability was extended and the number of assessments in which the incapacity for work was discontinued. That is why, Minister, I have the following questions. Can you first of all explain the lack of figures of the Christian League of Nations? Why doesn't the CM share those figures with the Cabinet or the RIZIV? What will you do to get those figures anyway? It also appears that, on average, the neutral Landsbond withdraws twice as many benefits as the other unions. How are we supposed to read that? Do you have an explanation for that? How do you explain the lower number of withdrawals of the right to disability by the socialist National Association's advisory doctors, especially in 2020? On average, half of the benefits were withdrawn in 2020 compared to previous years. Is that covid-related or can you suggest otherwise?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u10	Mrs Van Peel, as a result of your question, the RIZIV re-interviewed the insurance institutions. On the basis of the answers, we can make the following observations. Firstly, the League of Christian Mutualities has delivered the requested figures. The failure to send the figures to the initial question had to do with an internal communication error, which we could have corrected with this one. Secondly, the Landsbond of the Neutral Sickness Funds has provided new figures, since the initial question involved both exclusions in primary incapacity for work and disability. In the corrected figures, only exclusions are renewed during the period of invalidity, as requested in Parliamentary question K429. Thirdly, the Independent Hospital Fund Landsbond has also forwarded corrected figures. On the basis of the adjusted figures, it appears that the rate of exclusions in invalidity is comparable among the different insurance institutions. For me I have one and a half pages with only numbers, in very small print. We can get it to you, if that's what you want, maybe that's the easiest thing to do. Or you ask a written parliamentary question and then we deliver them to you again, but we can hand them over to you now, informally. You ask why, overall, half of the benefits were withdrawn in 2020 compared to previous years. As a result of the pandemic, physical consultations in all provinces were stopped and replaced by teleconsultations for the period from 16 March 2020 to 1 June 2020 and then from 1 November 2020 to 31 December 2020. Only teleconsultations were carried out in the province of Antwerp from 29 July 2020 until 31 August 2020. During the periods during which physical consultations were carried out, they were combined with teleconsultations, as some counseling doctors themselves belong to a risk group for COVID-19, as well as some insured persons. Since no physical medical examination of the insured person can be carried out during a teleconsultation, while the medical examination is an essential element in the assessment of incapacity for work, no decision can be taken at that time until the end of the incapacity for work. This explains the sharp decline in the number of decisions until the end of disability in 2020 compared to previous years. More generally, I think I say this now intuitively, but I think it is very likely that the pandemic will only strengthen the need for reintegration. Over a long period of time, the labour market has been less effective. For the reintegration of workers into a company, this period was obviously not the easiest, given the situation on the labour market, including compulsory telework. In addition, during some periods medical evaluations could not take place in the usual way. Next, there are consequences of long COOVID-19, which means that even more people are long-term disabled. These are sometimes workers who were particularly fit and active in advance, sometimes in higher qualified positions, but who are now invalidated. So I think we will be faced with some sort of backlog, a accumulation of difficulties and problems that make it necessary to put reintegration really high on the agenda quickly. In the federal government, I also urge that first decisions be taken relatively quickly that allow for a new approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u11	Minister, I welcome your last remark because reintegration will effectively be the challenge of this legislature. I would particularly like to hear you say that a new approach is needed. I do not know whether we are entirely in line with this new approach; that will still have to be demonstrated. You are quite right that we really need to look at the problems of the long-term sick in a different way. We must try to approach them more positively than we are today. I am also pleased that I have so much impact that the health insurance funds can now provide the right figures. You'll be happy to give it to me. I understand you can't read them here and expect them in digital form. I also understand that in 2020, as you will explain, this is corona-related; that is what I expected. It shows that teleconsultations will not provide an answer for some issues, because physical contact remains important. Of course, there's still a shortage of counseling doctors. So you have a lot of work ahead of you. I am happy to follow up on the issue and we will shortly be coming up with a comprehensive motion for a resolution in which we will set out our views. I'm sure you'll be interested in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u12	For the report, we note that the figures referred to by the Minister will be delivered by the cabinet to Mrs Van Peel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u13	Minister, the National Labour Council recently gave its opinion on the Belgian plan on access to social protection for workers and the self-employed. This was drawn up in response to the European recommendation on this subject. This recommendation fits within the European pillar of social rights and is also a response to different changes in the labour market. The opinion on the Belgian action plan contains a number of points which I would like to address and ask some questions about. Firstly, how is it that the NAR did not get to see the draft national action plan on access to social protection for workers and self-employed persons drawn up by the government in advance, while the action plan was to be delivered to the European Commission on the weekend of 15 May? Yet they have not seen this in advance. Secondly, in Council Recommendation 2019/C387 of the European Union, i.e. the document on which the Belgian Action Plan is based, it is requested to collect and publish, as far as possible, reliable national statistical data on access to the various forms of social protection by 15 November 2021. Is that what the various services are doing? Will the social partners be involved in this in time? Thirdly, the Council also noted that the European Recommendation was adopted in November 2019 before the covid crisis broke out. Social protection measures have been severely tested in the past year by this crisis. As the crisis is still going on, no final conclusions can yet be drawn. The Council therefore concludes that reflection with the social partners on the impact of the crisis on social protection is desirable. I assume you intend to answer that question. Fourthly, the Council also calls for close involvement in the choice of government actions to be taken in the effective implementation of the Action Plan and calls for the involvement of different social security bodies. Is that what you're planning on doing? Which agencies will you involve? Fifthly, the Belgian action plan focuses on improving points while Belgium is a leader in social protection. Why is no more attention paid to what is going well? I think it is a good thing that the good examples are shared as well. It is also in our interest that other countries, which are not yet so far advanced in the field of social security, should be able to take over a number of matters. This can be inspiring and lead to greater harmonisation of social security in the different European Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u14	You have exceeded your speaking time by 1 minute and 37 seconds. I think it is important for Members of Parliament to be able to ask their questions. However, this means that everyone must be able to ask their questions. The time for the Minister and Members of Parliament to ask questions is limited. It would be a good thing for all of us to do our utmost to keep to the speaking time set. I don't fall in 10 to 15 seconds, but almost 2 minutes is a different story. That a minister sometimes needs a little more time than 2 minutes to answer, I don't think that's a problem, but this was a little too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u15	Mr Minister, by e-mail dated 8 March 2021, you requested advice from the National Labour Council in the context of the preparation of a Belgian national plan implementing the Council of the European Union Recommendation 2019/C387 of 8 November 2019 on access to social protection for workers and self-employed persons. The purpose of this Recommendation is to ensure access to social protection for all employees and self-employed persons by improving formal and effective coverage and by strengthening the adequacy and transparency of social security systems. The EU invites Member States to implement these four principles as soon as possible and to present a plan of action at national level by 15 May 2021 at the latest. Member States shall, together with the preparation of a national plan, be invited to collect and publish, by 15 November 2021 at the latest, as far as possible reliable national statistical data on access to the different forms of social protection. It is striking that, despite having to give an opinion on it, the NAR has not been given access to the government's draft plan, which does raise questions. Mr Minister, why did the NAR not have access to the government's draft plan? In what way have you taken into account the advice of the NAR in your plan? What is the content of the plan and can you give us a copy of it? What data on access to social protection in Belgium will you provide by 15 November 2021 at the latest?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u16	Mr President, on 8 November 2019, the Council of the European Union adopted a recommendation on the access of workers and self-employed persons to social protection in the context of the implementation of the European Pillar of Social Rights, in particular the principle 12 of that Pillar, which states that "While the nature and duration of their employment relationship, workers and self-employed persons are entitled to adequate social protection'. I did some academic work on that myself. Anyone interested can read a short article about this from me that was published not so long ago in the European Journal of Social Security. That article reflects on a number of punctual contributions by scientists on the European Pillar of Social Rights, and I explain why I personally believe that this principle number 12 is perhaps one of the most important principles in the European Pillar of Social Rights, why the Council's recommendation to implement that principle is therefore very important and why I believe that all Member States should respond very closely to it. However, I am not going to explain all these arguments here. If you want, you can read that article. When, unexpectedly for me, I became Minister of Social Affairs in the Belgian Government, I thought it was important, since I said with a different hat that this is an extremely important principle and that the Member States should take into account the recommendation which should help to implement that principle number 12, of course, to take it to heart. Mrs Lanjri, you are right that we can say a lot of positive things about our system of social security and social protection, but throughout Europe and also in our country, we see changes in the labour market, the fact that standard contracts are becoming less important and that new types of contracts are emerging, where social protection is less well regulated, which force us to engage in this European initiative. That is what we have done very well. When I joined as Minister for Social Affairs, I was lucky to see that preparatory work had already been carried out. For example, the FPS Social Security had already carried out an academic research on this issue by an independent interuniversity team. It looked at developments in the labour market, its impact on social protection and any gaps in our social protection. The final report of this study was delivered at the end of November 2020. We then had the action plan prepared by representatives of the Public Institutions of Social Security and the competent federal administrations, under the coordination of the Social Security Office. There was political guidance from a working group chaired by a representative of my cabinet. There were also representatives of the Minister of Self-Employees, the Minister of Work, the Minister of Pensions and the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. The covid crisis didn't make things any easier. The editorial process was only started in the course of February and we had to bring all this to a successful conclusion very quickly. Indeed, the Recommendation invited Member States to submit an action plan by 15 May 2021. So there was some time pressure. We asked the social partners for an opinion on this at the beginning of March. The National Labour Council issued this on 5 May. The Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-employed delivered its opinion on 19 April. The Action Plan has now been finalised and transferred to the European Commission, with a format consistent with the European Commission's guideline. It is therefore divided into four parts. In a first section the main features of our Belgian system are outlined and the main challenges we face are addressed. Within the scope of the Recommendation and broken down according to the four axes of the Recommendation, it addresses formal coverage challenges, effective coverage challenges, benefits adequacy challenges and transparency challenges. The second part of the Action Plan gives an overview of the social security challenges arising from the covid crisis. The findings of the COVIVAT study were also discussed. However, there are still no concrete avenues for reform in that part. More analyses and figures are needed for this first. The third part then sets out Belgium's policy objectives in this context and gives a brief overview of planned measures, which, of course, at the beginning of the current legislature are a significant translation of the government agreement and of the policy statements of the ministers responsible for Social Security. In that respect, it was a bit difficult for us. The recommendation asked us to submit our plan. Normally, this is the opportunity to take a critical look at the government's work. However, since we are at the beginning of a new government, this means, to a large extent, proposing our coalition agreement and indicating that the agreement will be implemented. The last section outlines the importance and the next steps of dialogue with the social partners for the modernisation of social security and provides a number of avenues for further development and deepening at the European level. You know that our government attaches great importance to social dialogue. The plan also often refers to this. A number of references are also made to the opinions submitted by the social partners on the plan itself. A number of measures also provide that they will be preceded by an evaluation of the existing arrangements, in consultation with the social partners and the target groups concerned. It is also explicitly stated in the further development of a number of measures that this will be done in consultation with the social partners and with the target groups concerned. Of course, the various social security bodies will also be involved. In the meantime, the plan itself is concerned at the National Labour Council, at the General Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-employed, at the relevant public social security institutions and at the relevant federal administrations. The recommendation of the European Council also invites us to publish national statistics by 15 November 2021 on access to the various forms of social protection, to which we naturally commit ourselves, as should the other Member States. The collection and publication of these statistics are now being prepared by the administration. Where possible, they will be broken down by legal status in the labour market, by the nature of the employment relationship, by gender and by age. Belgium is also working with the European Commission and the other Member States to develop a European monitoring framework to follow the recommendation. Such a European monitoring framework, based on a well-thought-out conceptual framework, takes back the various axes of the Recommendation, while also addressing the wider context. For example, labour market indicators will be included in the framework. For the follow-up to the National Action Plan, Belgium will take this joint work that we are doing at European level as a starting point. This will be complemented by indicators reflecting Belgian concerns with a view to the publication of national statistics by 15 November. Good functioning social security systems throughout the European Union are important. They have a stabilizing character. They are the cornerstone of our social model. We have taken a leading role in this. We still play first class when it comes to the social security organisation. We also refer to that. We also have high effective coverage. The covid crisis has also highlighted its relevance to Belgium. Nevertheless, at European level, we must join in a self-critical process. The recommendation also calls for this from us. We need to adapt to new evolutions. We are doing this at the beginning of this new legislature, especially with references to what the coalition agreement proposes in that area. So far my reflection on the basis of your questions, Mrs Lanjri.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I absolutely don't mind that you've gone over your time. I found it very interesting. The Belgian action plan for the social protection of workers and self-employed workers is a summary of what is contained in the government agreement and policy papers. It is important, however, that it should be discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs. I hope that we can make time available for that. I also hope that we will be able to receive the statistics you will provide to the Council of the European Union by 15 November in committee. It is particularly important that you involve the social partners in the preparation of the plan and its implementation in measures and, where appropriate, in the collection of statistical data.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u18	Minister, you did not answer all my questions, which were quite specific. The main reason you mention in connection with the question of why the NAR has not been given access to the government's plan is lack of time, but then I immediately think, especially in this period of the year, that a good student starts on the block in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u19	Mr Anseuw, I did not become Minister until 1 October.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u20	Mr Minister, I am speaking for a moment. I also asked how you took into account the advice of the NAR in your plan, but I cannot really distil that out of your reflection. I therefore repeat my question as to whether we can get a copy of the plan that is concerned, because I am very interested in what is in it. Then we can see for ourselves how the opinion issued by the NAR has been taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u21	Of course, you can get a copy. That's no problem at all. We'll send it. I think, by the way, that the document is already public, but you will get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u22	Debates of the European Parliament 55017876C by Mrs Leroy and 55019249C by Mrs Leoni are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u23	Mrs. Moscufo isn't here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u24	Mr President, according to the law and the Royal Decree of 10 December 1987 on benefits granted under the Law on Accidents at Work of 10 April 1971, the benefits resulting from an accident at work as a result of permanent incapacity for work cannot be fully combined with a retirement or survivor's pension. Many of the people involved are testifying to the negative social consequences of this measure. What's your opinion on the matter? What commitments can you make to improve compensation after a worker's work accident once they are retired? Will you allow full accumulation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u25	Mr President, the cumulation of social security benefits is, as a rule, not allowed. Workers' compensation benefits, since they are not only a replacement income in the strict sense but are partly indemnitarian, are an exception to this principle of prohibition of cumulation. They are therefore still granted to persons receiving a retirement pension even if they are limited at the time. On the one hand, compensation for accidents at work is intended to compensate for all or part of the loss of earning capacity in the labour market through a replacement income; on the other hand, it includes a component for the human damage caused by the accident. For the latter, occupational accident insurance provides not only for replacement income but also for increased reimbursement for medical costs, for example for prostheses. The economic loss on the labour market ceases to exist on the part of the victim at the time when he/she is admitted to retirement. The victim then receives another replacement income, the retirement pension, which replaces the replacement income granted under the legislation on industrial accidents. In calculating the amount of the pension, the periods during which workers' accident benefits were granted are of course treated as such. In addition, because there is permanent human damage, which continues to occur after the active age of the victims, the accident insurance provides that the pension can be combined with a flat-rate benefit, the amount of which is determined by the degree of the illness. This is therefore a derogation from the general rule which imposes a cumulative ban on social security benefits. That's a responsible arrangement, I think. I therefore do not see any changes to this at the moment. The debate on this has been going on for many years; I do not remember anything else. In my view, it is a legitimate arrangement. Since 2015, measures have been taken to reduce the contribution to the interest rate for accidents at work. This contribution was initially 13,07 %. It's been gradually reduced. At present it amounts to 5.34%. From 1 July it drops to 4.45%. That is a little bit of progress for those involved, which was decided in the context of the welfare envelope. I welcome this: although it is, of course, only a small concession for those concerned, it is not insignificant.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u26	Every step forward is, of course, to be welcomed. However, I would remind you that there is absolutely no cure or the jackpot won the day they retire. In that sense, the termination of the full remuneration is really not justified. According to the PVDA, that can be seen as a double penalty, but everyone interprets it the way he likes it. First of all, the person who is unable to work can no longer do the job he wants to do and he will pay the corresponding wage at that time. Secondly, he is no longer entitled to full compensation after his retirement. The social consequences of such a measure are not yet taken into account. We are getting testimonies of increasing poverty, because those people simply don't get around with their retirement. The pensions are very low. Of course, that is even more the case when someone has been out of work for a while. It makes no sense at all to stop the full allowance for incapacity for work at retirement. The message is that people are only worth something as long as they can work. Besides, insurers continue to pay the full contribution, even after retirement. For us, Minister, you are taking a small step, but that is certainly not enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u27	Given their absence, questions Nos 55018014C by Mrs Moscufo and 55018366C by Mr Warmoes are not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u28	Minister, in December 2020, your proposal awarded a gross corona premium of EUR 985 to the hospital staff working in the cleaning industry. After the dreaded discussion about the gross or net amount, it is now revealed that very many cleaning staff are not entitled to this premium because they are employed under subcontracting in hospitals. They have legally another employer, but do the same work. On May 25, these people held a symbolic action and laid down the work for 5 minutes. That was a signal to the government. It was not their job to hit the corona heavily burdened hospital sector through hard action. They just wanted to give a signal. Why was it not taken into account for the cleaning staff who work sub-contracting for the hospitals? Will the government still grant a premium to this excluded group? If so, how can this injustice be rectified? Is there any thought, for example, to correct this by means of an envelope that you can assign to the sector of the Joint Committee 121? Will you consult with your colleague Minister Dermagne on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u29	Minister, at the end of last year the government decided to grant hospital staff a bonus of EUR 985. Unfortunately, this bonus is not provided for the cleaning staff employed by subcontractors. We have already mentioned this at the beginning of this year, but even after several rounds of consultations we hear that this is still not going in the right direction. For this reason, the Christian and Socialist trade unions of the cleaning staff of various hospitals in the country took a symbolic action on Tuesday 25 May in which they claimed that famous coronabonus. According to a trade union member, the government always points out the importance of hygiene to combat the virus, but by denying people this bonus, it denies its efforts. They were on the frontline during the epidemic. That's why I have a few questions. Why does the government persist in refusing to grant this bonus to the cleaning staff working through subcontracting? Do you not think that their working conditions are already difficult enough and their status is not sufficiently appreciated? Secondly, why are these workers not included in this bonus, as it is intended to reward hospital staff for the efforts it has made during the crisis? Don't you think they play a role that was crucial in the fight against the corona virus? A third question, according to the ABVV, is about a thousand people. How much does this bonus cost effectively to the government? Is this not a small effort for the State, but a substantial aid for the workers concerned? If you continue to refuse to grant this bonus, why do you not demand that subcontractors pay this bonus or increase the wages of their employees?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u30	I have answered similar questions several times, so I am going to repeat myself. The premium was an important form of recognition of the work done in hospitals. I am the first to acknowledge that, of course, the work was done not only by people who were on the payroll of hospitals, but also by people who did services through firms, i.e. in outsourcing. However, it is always the case that, when a social agreement is reached in the hospital sector, that agreement applies to the staff employed in the hospital sector. It is about the entire staff, but it is about the staff employed by the hospitals themselves. So people who work in subcontracting are people who work in a company that has a service contract. You may regret that this practice is widespread. I could even follow you in that, I'm not a fan of outsourcing all kinds of tasks. Of course, we now see the disadvantage of this. The government doesn't refuse. It's always been that way. I'm not gonna be able to just set up a raise for sectors outside the hospital sector. I can't. It is a social agreement for employees in the hospital sector. I have already discussed this problem with the trade unions in detail, but I honestly do not see a simple solution at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u31	Minister, you will understand that your answer does not make me so happy. With a great deal of understanding, the cleaning staff will not get very far. That premium would make a real difference for the cleaners, who belong to the lowest wage category. I must therefore conclude from your answer that one cleaner is not the other. However, all cleaners, without distinction, have had an important part in keeping our health care running during this corona crisis. The Institute for Job Classification has worked for years to reward people on the basis of their activity and not so much on the basis of their qualifications, but apparently this does not apply to cleaning staff. This shows that the sometimes subjective division into joint committees clearly contributes to inequality in this case. One group of people is clearly much stronger than the other to make themselves heard. We just want to stand up for that silent group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u32	Mr Minister, when you speak of subcontracting, you are in my shop, because as a result of the closure of Ford we were very closely involved in subcontracting, and we have also written history in this area. Even the cleaning lady had the same social agreement with Ford. So where there's a will, there's a way. I therefore deeply regret your answer. A lot of hospitals are on the front line of corona, but haven't used their own staff to disinfect and clean the area in the corona departments. No, hospitals have called for subcontracting for cleaning. Those firms were paid extra to get the departments in the danger zone clean, but the staff did not receive any of that. If that proves to be the way in which we are working, then we really need to ask ourselves how we can adapt the legislation on subcontracting. Since subcontracting is in the hands of the parent company, we must be able to deal with these subcontracting in the same way. So I guess there's still some real work to be done. I really cannot appreciate your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u33	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Colebunders' 55019269C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u34	Minister, last year several measures were taken to prevent the loss of unused meal, eco, sports and cultural cheques. The opinion of the social partners was discussed in order to extend the period of validity for a number of months. In addition, there were also a number of months that were not covered by the extension. I have therefore tabled an amendment to the programme law, which was adopted. As a result, the issuing offices were obliged to issue the expired cheques again this year. In this way we can ensure that employees still get their money. The cheques in question had to be re-issued with a validity of 12 months for the meal cheques and 24 months for the ecocheques. Following my bill No. 1091 the social partners issued an opinion in which they advocated the compulsory digitisation of ecocheques, following what already exists today for meal cheques. I asked Minister Dermagne a question about this on 25 May. He said he was working with you on a legislative initiative in this area. Is there going to be a KB or a bill to settle this? What's the status? When will you come to Parliament with this? Will digitalization apply to all types of cheques? Are the social partners involved in this? In the meantime, will you monitor the correct implementation of the adopted amendment to ensure that the issuing offices re-issue all unused cheques from 2020 this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u35	Mrs Lanjri, in their opinion 2,172 of the National Labour Council, the social partners indeed asked for full digitisation of the ecocheques. Together with Minister Dermagne, I have taken an initiative to make this digitisation possible. The royal decision necessary for this is now being prepared by the FPS Social Security, in consultation with the FPS Economy. The FPS Economy is responsible for the secretariat of the ad hoc advisory and control committee involved in the recognition of the publishers of electronic cheques. The Royal Decree, which is now being prepared, implements the advice of the social partners. When the text is ready, it must be delivered for advice to several Advisory Councils and must go through the necessary regulatory, administrative procedure before I can submit it to the Council of Ministers. Control of the implementation of the rules on meal, eco-, cultural, sports and consumer cheques is to be taken into account by the National Social Security Office with regard to the control of social security aspects. Other control and inspection services are also involved, each within their own competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Minister Dermagne had actually said this six months ago. Good thing the KB finally gets there, I hope it'll be there in the summer. In addition, another initiative will have to be taken anyway. Even when we arrive at the full digital edition of the ecocheques, parts of the cheques are not used up and there are residual amounts. By the way, that's also true for the meal cheques. The Council of State has said that the money should not be spent at the issuing offices. The agreement was that the social partners would deliver an opinion on this, in order to avoid this happening in the future. So before the end of the year, we should also have a solution to the other problem, the money that stays at the issuing offices, which is not allowed. The Council of State has made this very clear. I hope you are also working on that, and I will talk about that in another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u37	Debates of the European Parliament 55018519C by Mrs Leroy and 55019155C by Mrs Lanjri are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u38	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, the ONSS Management Committee is responsible for evaluating the scheme for the total exemption of social security contributions for entrepreneurs for their first commitment. In a press opinion, the Committee would suggest limiting this mechanism to 26 quarters, as well as capping and reducing the amount of the reduction. The government agreement provides that: "The exemption from employer contributions for the hiring of the first employee will be extended beyond 2020. In the course of 2021, in consultation with the social partners, an evaluation of the system will take place, which may lead to an amendment. The aim is to avoid non-use by simplifying and automating the system, but also to prevent excessive use and abuse." Mr Minister, the idea of introducing a flat-rate ceiling, but also of limiting the measure over time, is raised. Is there an agreement within the government on this? What will happen to the jobs already created by this scheme? Will they continue to benefit from the zero contribution conditions as they were in place when these jobs were created? What changes are you planning to make to the current mechanism? What measures will you put in place to simplify and automate this mechanism? Have many abuses been found for this zero contribution measure? If so, what was the nature of it? How do you intend to encourage companies to use this measure? We're talking simplification, automation. How do you see this practically?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u39	Mr. Chair, Mr.Bombled, pursuant to the government agreement, on November 6, 2020, I asked the ONSS Management Committee to conduct an evaluation of the existing system for the target group first recruitment reduction by March 31, 2021. The evaluation took a little longer than expected, but on May 28, the Management Committee unanimously approved the synthesis of the working group it had entrusted with the evaluation. In recent weeks, the ONSS and SPF social security administrations have devoted a great deal of energy to drafting the regulations, which are currently being discussed by the working group. I can already tell you that the unanimous opinion of the Management Committee includes all the elements of your question: the limitation of the benefit over time and the amount; appropriate transitional measures that also take into account the jobs already created; better legal descriptions and the rules to be adapted to combat misuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answer. I guess in a few weeks we'll have more details. The objective of the zero contribution measure is to encourage entrepreneurs to hire their first worker, to support employment and to improve the viability of businesses. This measure is highly appreciated. It affects trade, Horeca, but also the construction sector. Thousands of jobs have been created thanks to it. Of course, if abuses are found in this system, they must be stopped. Indeed, the zero contribution measure must be used exclusively for self-employed persons who want to create their first job. However, limiting this measure over time may not give a good momentum and do so now, as the economy and SMEs are preparing to restart, would be a very bad signal. This would be more like the repeal of the measure, rather than a correction of the measure. Finally, going back to the time limit of the already open reductions would mean a change in the rules of the game in the course of the game. That would not be acceptable because giving is giving.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u41	Mr Minister, occupational accident insurance is an obligation for all employers, regardless of the status of employees. This therefore also means an obligation for employees active in the framework of a flexi-job as well as for pensioners who earn extra income in the context of a flexi-job. However, the status of benefits received by a flexi-job worker and also by a retired person following an accident at work during the execution of his flexi-job is unclear. The legislation clearly defines the flexiloon and also exempts it from personal RSZ contributions and taxes. The employer must pay up to 25% of the social security contribution. Also what is excluded from the flexiloon is clearly defined in the law. This is mainly about a number of extra-legal benefits. However, there is a great deal of uncertainty about the benefits received by a flexi job worker from the occupational accident insurance company. It would be expected that those benefits resulting from an accident at work of a flexi-job employee will receive the same tax and RSZ status as the lost income of that flexi-job employee, which means an exemption from personal RSZ contributions and taxes, but when questioned by various government institutions, such as the RSZ, Fedris and the FPS Finance, conflicting answers are provided because there would be a gap in the legislation. However, the impact and importance of that answer are very high, especially when it comes to a retired flexi-job worker, who would have to pay a large proportion of his benefit in the context of an accident at work flexi-job immediately to the taxes. De facto, another tax and RSZ treatment means that the occupational accident insurance of a retired flexi-job worker becomes an empty box, which is why I have the following questions, Minister. Is it true that all flexi job workers must be covered by an accident insurance scheme? Is the replacement income in the context of an accident at work of a flexi job worker treated in the same way as the flexiloon? Does that mean an exemption from personal RSZ contributions and taxes? If no, can you clarify why this is not the case? Doesn't that de facto mean a complete erosion of a flexi job worker's occupational accident insurance? Are you planning initiatives to address the gap or at least the lack of clarity in the legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u42	Mr President, the flexi job employer is obliged to take out occupational accidents insurance with an approved insurance undertaking. There are no exceptions. In reply to your second question, I will make a distinction between the RSZ contribution and the company levy. As far as the company tax is concerned, I really have to refer to my colleague, Vincent Van Peteghem, who is responsible for this. With regard to the RSZ contribution, I can say the following. No ordinary social security contributions shall be payable on the flexiloon, on the flexi holiday allowance and on the employee's net overtime for his benefits as a result of the exclusion of that wage from the concept of pay. The victim of an accident at work is obliged to pay the personal contributions due under social security legislation. The contribution is limited to the sectors to which the affected person was subject at the time of the accident. This also applies to the flexi-job workers. However, the current rules do not contain provisions that would exclude the flexi-job worker from certain branches of social security. All sectors of social security therefore apply. Moreover, it should be borne in mind that the flexi-job worker's performance is eligible to build rights in the branches of social security. The personal contribution deducted from the allowances for an accident at work shall be used to finance the social security sectors. For all these reasons, the view was always taken that the ordinary RSZ contributions are due on the compensation for temporary incapacity after an accident at work for a flexi job worker. A specific situation concerns the retired flexi job worker. The flexi-job regulation allows a retired person to do a flexi-job. Retired flexi-job workers are also covered by the Act on Accidents at Work. At present, occupational accidents regulations do not contain any specific provisions for the flexi-job worker, retired or not. The normal rules therefore apply. For the retired worker, the basic wage should be fixed, taking into account his actual earnings, in accordance with Article 37 of the Accidents at Work Act. The basic wage thus forms the basis on which the allowances for an accident at work are calculated. Article 37a of the Accidents at Work Act concerning the aggregation of several part-time jobs does not apply to the retired flexi-job worker. This means that the retired flexi job worker will be able to receive only limited remuneration under the current regulations in the event of temporary incapacity for work. In addition, in the case of permanent incapacity for work, account must be taken of Article 42a of the Act on Accidents at Work, which provides that, from the date of retirement of the person concerned, his allowance for permanent incapacity for work shall be limited to the minimum lump sum of the supplementary allowance. This also applies to the retired flexi-job worker, to whom a percentage of permanent incapacity for work is granted. Then we have to take into account Article 5 of the Royal Decree of 10 December 1987 on benefits granted under the Accidents at Work Act. This provision states that, if the basic wage of the affected person was established in application of Article 37 of the Accidents at Work Act, the above flat-rate amount must be halved. This means, in concrete terms, that all retired workers, including flexi-jobs, will receive only a very limited allowance for their permanent incapacity for work, but they will receive a reduced personal contribution to the interest on accidents at work. As I have just said to Mr Colebunders on occupational diseases, that is 4.45% from 1 July. In 2016, a working group was set up by the Management Committee of the then Fund for Accidents at Work to analyse the impact of the regulations applicable to flexi-jobs on the sector and to propose solutions to bottlenecks. One of these bottlenecks was the calculation of the basic wage of a flexi-job worker after an accident at work. In order to keep the calculation of the basic wage for the flexi job worker realistic and manageable, several slopes were examined by the working group for five years. Finally, a proposal was adopted by the Working Group which would amend the special rules for the basic wage calculation. The proposal is that the basic wage for the flexi job worker should be determined on the basis of the average wage of the person in question. That's like the interim workers. Where no size can be found, the basic wage will be determined on the basis of the wage scale of an employee of at least one year's seniority and with the same professional qualification as the flexi job worker. This proposal is on the agenda for the next meeting of the Management Committee for Accidents at Work on 21 June. So that has already been discussed, but I cannot give you the result yet. You're asking me if I'm planning any initiatives. We are aware that there are still problems. This is because the introduction of the flexicurity scheme did not introduce any specific rules, which required the application of the normal rules of accident insurance, but that was absolutely not optimal. If the Management Committee for Accidents at Work accepts the proposal of this working group, we will amend the rules and remove the disadvantage that the current state of the regulation entails. The current problem will even persist for accidents at work occurring to flexi-job workers, with a temporary incapacity of less than 30 days, with only a simplified basic wage based on flexi-loon. I will ask Fedris to examine that point further, as well as the specific situation of the retired flexicurist.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u43	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I believe that this is indeed important, because for many of those flexi-jobers that income is not an unnecessary luxury. If they are victims of an accident at work, it is indeed important that they do not make too much of a financial contribution. In any case, long-term illness and disability are not a matter of fat. I think it is a good thing that you want to get on with this, because it cannot be the intention that the social protection of those people should somehow become or remain an empty box. This is still being prosecuted. I look forward to the sequel. I will ask another follow-up question on the 21 June consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u44	Minister, after a few months of corona crisis, the consumer cheque was introduced in the summer of 2020. It served a double purpose: on the one hand, the cheque was intended to reward groups of workers who had made great efforts in the first months of the corona crisis in a tax-friendly way and, on the other hand, it provided additional support for affected sectors where cheques could be spent, such as catering, sports, culture and retail trade. Today it appears that only one third of the first shipment of consumer cheques was spent. The problem has several facets. In many commercial matters it seems that the consumer cheque cannot be used because of the strict conditions. In addition, many businesses have had to close the doors again for several months from October. Finally, it is not always clear for those who have received the consumer cheques where they can go or where they can go, partly because of the complex regulations. The counter of unused consumer cheques currently stands at around EUR 100 million. Those consumer cheques also have an expiration date on them. The rightholder who does not spend them in good time loses his advantage. That would be a gift for the issuing companies of consumer cheques. Despite these difficulties, the issue of additional consumer cheques is once again on the table and the instrument was also on the table in the IPA negotiations. My question dates back a few weeks ago. What steps will the government take to increase transparency with regard to consumer cheques, both for the workers they receive and for the businesses they are allowed to receive? Will there also be a relaxation and/or simplification of the use of consumer cheques? If so, which relaxations or simplifications do you think of? The 2020 consumer cheques are currently valid until the end of 2021. Do you intend to extend the deadline again and possibly harmonise it with the promised consumer cheques under the wage agreement 2021-2022?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u45	Mr President, on 15 June 2021 the Council of Ministers adopted a draft KB and a draft law on the corona premium. The two texts are currently before the Council of State for its opinion. Following the introduction of the corona premium, the rules on consumer cheques are amended. One of the changes is the extension of the list of places where consumer cheques can be used. This list will apply both to the new corona premiums and to existing consumer cheques. So that's an improvement, if you ask me. Another amendment concerns the validity of consumer cheques extended until 31 December 2022 for both the paper version and the electronic form. The corona premium in paper form will also be valid until 31 December 2022. No specific simplifications or facilitations are planned, but the wider application and duration of consumer cheques and corona premiums will make it easier to spend them. The paperwork and the electronic form of consumer cheques continue to exist side by side. That will also be the case for the corona premiums, but our ultimate objective is to preserve only the electronic form of consumer cheques. The amendments to the regulations on consumer cheques will enter into force on 1 August, the date of the first award of corona premiums. As far as the figures are concerned, the various consumer cheque publishers informed the administration that there were around 732,000 users at the beginning of June and that a total of about 155 million euros of consumer cheques were issued. However, the amount spent is not yet known.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The substance of my question was indeed a double concern. On the one hand, those who receive consumer cheques should be able to use them at as many locations as possible. If they are too limited, freedom of choice is also much more limited, which I do not think is the intention. On the other hand, the extension of validity can ensure that commercial matters which had to be closed down in the last few months are not treated unequally. I put my question to you on 4 June and I am very pleased with your message that on 15 June the government announced its intention to extend the list of shops and sectors to which consumer cheques can be used. This is a good thing, as is the extension of validity until the end of 2022, which will benefit the sectors most affected by the mandatory closure. Much profit is not to be gained, because it is a bitter necessity for many. In any case, that way they can enjoy the extra support, the extra injection into our economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u47	Minister, Belgian football clubs enjoy a whole package of exceptions in terms of social contributions and taxes. Now, a recent incident shows once again that our football clubs have become business banks with a real accounting department. These clubs are interesting investments for foreign groups, just because Belgium's benefits are among the most advantageous in Europe. It has little to do with sport, but with high-tech tax at the expense of the honest taxpayer. Minister, do you still think it is justified to grant such extraordinary advantages to football clubs? Can you provide figures on the annual cost to the taxpayer of the benefits granted to football clubs? Finally, what will you do to amend the relevant legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u48	Mrs Samyn, professional athletes do indeed have a specific scheme for the calculation of social contributions. It applies both to athletes covered by the Law of 24 February 1978 on the employment contract for paid sportsmen and women who are not covered by that Law but who are linked to a contract of employment, because they perform under authority and receive for their benefits a wage greater than the reimbursement of costs borne by the employer. Where the gross monthly wage of those sportspersons is at least EUR 2,399,25, their contributions shall be calculated on that flat-rate monthly wage instead of on their actual salary. Of course, if gross monthly wages are lower, the amounts are calculated on real wages. In my view, this regulation is no longer sustainable. Our social security is built on the principle of solidarity. Stronger shoulders should make a fair contribution to supporting our social model. The use of such a low rate for the calculation of social contributions runs out of that principle. The RSZ cannot calculate the amount of social security contributions in this way. Indeed, the real wage of athletes who pay contributions on the basis of a flat rate should not be reported to the RSZ. So the RSZ doesn't know that paycheck. The government agreement provides that the current tax and parafiscal benefits of professional sportsmen and sports clubs will be reformed in order to increase fairness, ensuring that everyone makes a fair contribution, depending on the capacity of sport. At the moment, my staff with the RSZ are studying various possible scenarios to implement that decision of principle regarding their treatment in social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u49	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It has been said for years that action will be taken on this particular anti-social regime. The coalition agreement has now made it clear that something will be done about it. For a long time there has been no political courage to change anything about that antisocial system. Now it seems that our social security sponsors the top sport. Surely that's not the point? Moreover, it cannot be blamed on football clubs and top sports clubs. They eventually built up their business model based on the huge benefits they received. We are not asking for today's system to be abolished tomorrow, because that would put many clubs in difficulty, but its gradual phasing-out would give everyone the opportunity to recreate their business model. We are certainly not opposed to sport, but not in this way and not at the expense of our social security. Everyone has to contribute their share. You also mentioned it in your reply: the strongest shoulders must bear the heaviest loads. That's only fair.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u50	Mr President, Minister, the SIOD's action plan shows that efforts will be made to combat various forms of social fraud. An important form of this is benefit fraud, where the benefit recipients officially live at different addresses but do not do so in reality. This is an important and not to be underestimated phenomenon. One of the two addresses is therefore usually sub-rented, in quite a few cases to persons residing illegally in the country. After all, one cannot place at one address two places of residence of people who are not connected with each other. This also leads to house-meling and exploitation. So it's a cascade of fraud phenomena that are all linked together. Minister, do you have any plans to proactively detect this type of fraud? Will you work with local authorities and give them the legal means to carry out checks? How can we use the information of prevention workers, counselors or city guards? They know these problems all too often.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u51	Mr President, Mr Verreyt, in 2013 a letter was drawn up by the College of Attorneys General to deal with residence fraud. This letter makes dealing with residential fraud a priority for criminal policy. Its aim is to optimise the exchange of information and cooperation between the various actors and to step up the control of residence fraud. The employment auditors shall coordinate the fight against residence fraud. The letter from the College of Attorneys-General therefore provides for cooperation between the judicial authorities, the police, the social inspection services and the local authorities in the fight against residence fraud. Local authorities do indeed have an important signal function. They can always report possible residence fraud to the local police via the Contact Point for a Fair Competition of the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service, the SIOD, or possibly directly to the employment auditor. For example, their experiences and insights can be used to target residential fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u52	Minister, social security will only remain strong if we also tackle social fraud, preferably with a firm mind. I know that there are opportunities for reporting, but I believe that structural cooperation with local authorities is needed. After all, people who are on the ground on behalf of these local authorities, such as prevention workers and residential counsellors, are regularly addressed by citizens about problem premises. I know they can file a complaint with the police or go to the courthouse, but that's not the most obvious step to take. I believe that, with respect for privacy and everyone's powers, we must see how we can achieve more structural cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u53	Mr President, this question follows on from my previous question. A sound fraud policy can only succeed if we also have sufficient information from the inspection service. The law on privacy and the law on the police office are creating a dam for the exchange. There is no doubt that privacy must be guaranteed and maintained, but it is evidently a well-known fact among perpetrators of such fraud that inspection services are competing with unequal weapons. The SIOD Action Plan highlighted several issues concerning the exchange of information. In order to improve the effectiveness of fraud fighters, the exchange of information between inspection services and police services should be improved and reviewed or not. That is why I have a number of questions. In the context of the fight against fraud, do you consider the police officer's law of 5 August 1992 and the recent amendment of 22 May 2019 sufficient? Are you planning to consult with your Home Secretary to change the law if necessary? Do you think it would be useful to provide part-time training in the field of social fraud during police training? Will you contact your competent colleague for this? Could a regular exchange of information and phenomenon description between the inspection services and the police on the ground and the detectives not bring added value?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u54	Cooperation and exchange of information between services are very important in the Commission's anti-fraud action plan and SIOD's action plan. Currently, the exchange of information between police and social inspection services takes place mainly through the Public Prosecutor's Office. This is going well, although the inspection services are requesting parties to improve the exchange of information and to develop a formal framework for it. On the basis of Article 44/11/9, §2 of the Police Act, as amended by the Law of 22 May 2019, the police can directly exchange information with the social inspection services, provided that the procedures laid down in that Article are respected. The SIOD Action Plans and the Anti-Fraud College set out action points to further develop this formal and operational framework for the exchange of information between police and social inspection. For example, a list of organisations requesting access to police data should be drawn up. The Police Information and ICT Committee, which falls within the competence of Mr Verlinden, is developing this. This is, of course, done in consultation with the Justice Department and the social inspection services. Social fraud is already being addressed in police training. Cooperation with the Social Inspectorate will be discussed during the initial training as police inspector. Social infringements are then studied more extensively during basic training as police chief inspector. Specific continuing training on social fraud is also offered regularly to police officers in office. In addition, this training is regularly updated on the basis of the needs of the police zones and the units of the federal police. As I said, information is already being exchanged in concrete files under the leadership and authority of the Public Prosecutor's Office. In addition, there is also consultation at a district level between the police and the inspection services on the checks to be carried out. Also in the context of the MOTEMs, the multidisciplinary research teams, there is active cooperation on concrete dossiers. The cooperation, consultation and exchange of information outlined above brings added value in the fight against social fraud and should therefore be encouraged and strengthened on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u55	Mr Minister, there is already cooperation in very specific cases, and that is to be welcomed, but it is more about cooperation that is not yet in place. The SIOD cites that as one of the pain points and you also confirm that it is still a workpoint. I asked a similar question to Minister Verlinden and she replied that further training is the greatest pain. It is true that social fraud is being addressed in basic training, but for some inspectors it has been many years since they followed it. Phenomena such as social fraud also have the characteristic of adapting to inspection services and new areas. In particular, the exchange of the phenomenon description and the focus on the field, which can identify certain issues and note that they are a characteristic of some form of social fraud, are important. Minister Verlinden said she would discuss this with you in the coming weeks to work on it, and I hope that will also have an impact on the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u56	Mr Minister, in the presentation by the SIOD of the Action Plan on Combating Fraud 2021, there was talk of fraud involving volunteers in associations. However, there was no doubt about the way in which specific fraud phenomena, such as foreign students working as volunteers, were to be tackled and that information alone might not be enough. What figures do you have in connection with fraud involving foreign students who are wrongly volunteered? Do you think that merely more information will have any impact? In addition to the employer's punishment, should we not look at the students in question and make it clear to them when issuing a student visa that the visa can be withdrawn when they are guilty of such practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u57	Mr Verreyt, the Flemish regional inspection service has indeed identified abuses of the voluntary status by foreign students. The Flemish social inspection carried out a pilot check at 9 companies to identify how often foreigners come to work in Belgium as part of a tourist stay without an employment permit and "volunteers" were found in companies that also employed regular workers and engaged in activities similar to those carried out by employees or a job which gave the company an economic advantage. All 9 controlled companies found infringements of labour or social security legislation. The SIOD itself does not have any figures, but I can tell you that I have asked the SIOD to address the problem in the context of the operation of the district inspection cells. The inspection services can inform and coach, but can of course also control and banish. Depending on their assessment of the situation, they will record one of those two roles. In doing so, they investigate whether an undertaking is in good faith, does not know the law adequately or makes a mistake, or whether it is in bad faith and deliberately violates the rules. Of course, the approach of inspection services will be different depending on the case. As part of the review of the protocol of cooperation between the SIOD and the DVZ, I will look at the issue together with the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, Mr Mahdi. I would like to point out that the withdrawal of a student residence is provided for in the EU Directive 2016/801. The Member States therefore have little margin in this respect. The DVZ may refuse a student visa, for example, if the student pursues an illegal professional activity or if the student works more than 20 hours a week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You yourself said that control by the Flemish inspection services was an eye-opener, because the 9 checks identified several infringements. I think that the test project deserves to be followed up and that the best thing to do is to extend the controls. You also referred to the cooperation with the DVZ and your colleague Mahdi. I believe that we must use all the means to punish both employers who do malicious or ignorant things that cannot be done, and the offenders, the students who do voluntary work, within the limits of the legally permissible. I will put a follow-up question to your colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u59	Mr President, Mr Delizée, in the government agreement, we committed ourselves to monitoring the socio-economic impact of the pandemic and the impact of support measures at the level of workers, businesses and the economy. My colleague, Minister Dermagne, is responsible for monitoring and evaluating all of the above-mentioned support measures. The Monitoring Committee was asked to include in its reports an overview of the measures taken in the context of the crisis, with an estimate of their impact in ECC terms on revenue and expenditure, and of the measures taken by the current government since it took office, taking into account, in addition to the performance and cost originally planned, an updated estimate of the latter and the status of the measures or specific comments. The tables drawn up by the Monitoring Committee on the occasion of budgetary control are annexed to the Monitoring Committee's report of 11 March 2021 which is available on the Strategy and Support SPF website. In addition to the important efforts we have made to support the viability and therefore the employment of enterprises whose activity has been heavily affected by successive health measures, and for the recently decided recovery support measure, most of the support and therefore the additional cost has gone to employees and self-employed persons whose incomes were seriously threatened by the crisis, in the form of specific temporary unemployment benefits, a supplement to the basic incapacity for work benefits and, in the scheme for self-employed persons, a bridge right. We have supported not only the viability of businesses, but also the sustainability and budget of households and hundreds of thousands of families. Emergency measures taken during the crisis are still under way. It is therefore impossible to comment on the side effects of the measures taken on the financing of social security in the long term. Indeed, we do not yet know what the final effect of these measures will be. I would like to add that in each notification of a measure relating to a reduction in ONSS contributions with the aim of providing temporary support to companies whose activities have been heavily impacted and for the recently decided measure of support for the recovery, it is always expected that this will be compensated by the balance allocation. In addition, the actual cost of this measure will be monitored by the ONSS so that the resulting balance allocation is clearly visible and distinguishable. However, the two main social security schemes (the overall management of wage earners and the overall management of self-employed workers) have been able to resist, remain in balance and finance all the support measures that have been taken, thanks to the long-term allocation of balance after 2020. In the employee scheme, it was estimated for 2020 at EUR 2.9 billion before the crisis and was finally increased to EUR 10.6 billion. In the self-employed regime, no balance was needed for 2020 before the crisis. The significant cost of the measures taken in this scheme, mainly in the area of social security contributions and bridge law, led the government to grant a balance of €3.5 billion. In addition, in each budget conclave, the budget is updated and the consequences of particular circumstances such as the crisis are monitored. The last report dates back to the budgetary control in March. The report for the next budget conclave is currently being prepared and will be discussed at the Management Committee of the National Social Security Office on 2 July 2021. Each time, the descriptive part presents and comments on the evolution of the balance of the social security system for employed persons; more specifically, the evolution of the balance of the last period indicates how the additional costs following the crisis were financed. Finally, with regard to the effects of the measures on growth and employment, I refer you, on the one hand, to the press release of 10 June of the Federal Planning Office on the new economic budget and, on the other hand, to the economic projections of the National Bank published on its website on 14 June. It states that our economy has suffered less from this unprecedented crisis than that of neighbouring countries, but that it is precisely because of the support we have given both to businesses and to families and their purchasing power. We must therefore remain attentive to an overly abrupt suppression of this support, as the projected economic growth remains below the negative growth of last year. Some indicators such as net exports have not yet reached the required level and need to be carefully monitored. In a letter dated 21 October 2020, the Court of Auditors announces that it will carry out an audit of the aid measures granted to businesses and individuals. In the latter, she will try to find an answer to the following four main questions: - What economic support measures for businesses and individuals have been taken by governments (regional and federal) in response to the crisis of the Covid-19? - To what extent does the decision-making process, given the urgency, ensure the adoption of coherent and well-founded support measures? - Does the regulatory framework and the organisation of control provide guarantees as to the legality of the use of aid? - What are the procedures for monitoring and evaluating individual aid measures? My strategic cell and my administration will answer the questions of the Court of Auditors. This audit is likely to provide answers to questions about the effectiveness, collateral effects and cost-benefits of most covid-19 measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u60	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. There are, on the one hand, immediate responses and, on the other hand, this audit with a more detailed analysis. I am well aware that this assessment concerns the competences of several ministers: you, the Minister for Employment and the Minister for the Self-Employed. I think it is useful for the government and Parliament to have this comprehensive inventory, with budgetary impact and employment measures. I fully agree with you on the importance of financing social security in this context. I believe that our fellow citizens must measure as well the enormous efforts that the public authorities, the federal state in particular, have made to try to mitigate the negative effects of this health crisis, to support the purchasing power of workers and the self-employed. It is important to quantify all this. Social security, as in the financial and banking crisis of 2008 and 2009, played a role in dampening this crisis and mitigated many negative effects. It is necessary to be careful to have a phasing out of these measures that is reasoned and intelligent so as not to put people in trouble in the time still to come. I therefore thank you for the immediate answers. I will, of course, carefully follow the results of the more in-depth analyses that will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u61	Minister, in the course of their work, many workers have been exposed to the covid-19 virus. At the beginning of the pandemic, very few distancing measures were planned. The same was true for protective measures: there was no plexiglas at the counters and no masks, and wearing them was not even recommended. Several essential workers who have been infected with covid-19 call me, because Fedris does not recognize their workplace as presenting a risk. Occupational disease is therefore not recognised in this case. Among these patients, some also suffer from long covid. I am thinking of pharmacy staff, who are not considered to be at risk by Fedris for a variety of reasons, or of police officers and cashiers in the food sector. Minister, why are some places and actors in health care not recognized as having a risk of covid-19 contamination? How do you justify these refusals, given current knowledge of the virus? What is the number of files Fedris has recognized since the outbreak began and the number of files refused? Is long covid recognized as an occupational disease and, if so, in which sectors? Finally, in view of the evolution of scientific data, do you not consider it necessary to revise the criteria used?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u62	Mrs Fonck, covid-19 can be recognized as an occupational disease for workers in certain sectors of activity. The branches concerned include employees in health care who are at a significantly increased risk of being infected with the virus (Code of Occupational Disease 1.404.03), as well as employees in crucial sectors and essential services as determined in the annex to the Ministerial Decree of 3 April 2020 and who worked during the period from 18 March to 17 May 2020 inclusive (Code of Occupational Disease 1.404.04). There are several conditions: 1. that the working conditions or the nature of the work carried out make it regularly impossible to keep a distance of 1.5 metres in contact with other persons; 2. that no more than 14 days have elapsed between the occurrence of the disease and the date of the worker's last effective work benefit outside his or her home; 3. that the undertaking in which the worker was employed should be included in the list of enterprises in the critical sectors and essential services. A maximum of 14 days may elapse between the occurrence of the disease and the removal of the company from this list. Persons who do not work in the health care sector and who have been infected outside the containment period may be recognized through the open system. These persons must not only have been exposed to the occupational risk of the disease, but must also prove that the disease finds its direct and decisive cause in the exercise of the professional activity. With regard to the number of cases concerned, as at 15 June 2021, Fedris registered 16,800 claims for compensation for the health care sector, of which 6,482 have already been decided; 797 cases have been refused, for the following main reasons: - for 225 cases, the information requested by Fedris was not provided; - in 185 cases, the application was not relevant because the necessary documents were not submitted; - in 142 cases, the person concerned was not affected by the disease. - in 96 cases, the plaintiff did not fall within the scope of the laws on compensation for damage resulting from occupational diseases. Self-employed people, including general practitioners and independent physiotherapists, are unfortunately not eligible for compensation from Fedris. In critical areas and essential services, Fedris received 377 claims, 34 of which were rejected. For the open system, 239 applications were submitted and 145 were rejected. I have more details on the positive decisions and the consequences, but in order to save time, I propose to send you the full answer. The third question is whether long covid is recognized as an occupational disease and, if so, in which sectors. Once the professional character of the disease has been recognized, Fedris will take care of the various damage. As far as periods of temporary incapacity for work and health care are concerned, they can be cared for without limitation, as long as the victim provides evidence of medical evidence to objectify the symptoms mentioned and to attach them to the covid-19 recognized as an occupational disease. It is therefore important for the victim to send Fedris all medical reports relating to the follow-up examinations she is undergoing, as well as the certificates of prolongation of incapacity for work. These elements will be appreciated by Fedris physicians and, if the link is established with covid-19, health care and periods of incapacity for work will be taken care of. With regard to covid-19, in the case of a new disease, the Scientific Council of Fedris and its Medical Commission "biological agents" closely monitor scientific developments and refine, whenever necessary, the criteria to be taken into account. With regard to long covid more specifically, an internal working group of physicians is currently working on the issue in order to define guidelines. Fedris will not fail to communicate about this through its website, as soon as possible. I therefore propose that my adviser send you the full text of my written reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u63	Minister, thank you. I will examine the fullness of your answer when you address it to me. I have a number of comments to make, if you don't mind. I hear about working groups for long covid. That's a good thing. I hope that this can be done quickly and that we will then take into account the cases which have so far not been taken into account. However, let me draw your attention to the criteria that are being used in a comprehensive manner. On the part of the employees, consider a pharmacy assistant to whom Fedris refuses a file by considering that the pharmacy is not a place at risk. That's not right! They can also refuse because the date is March 11, when it was contaminated by the covid on that date, but it was before the lockdown. The lockdown criterion is not a logical criterion; as you know, there have been a lot of contamination outside the lockdown. It's the same when there's a refusal. Fedris does not offer the possibility of the open system but automatically returns to the court. Another criterion that challenges me is that we ask for absolute proof, while at the same time Fedris explains that it is very difficult to prove it. It's all the more difficult because the droplets are in the air. At the same time, Fedris uses the 1.5 metre criterion while, as we know today, from a scientific point of view, aerosolization exists. There are therefore many other types of contamination. I'd like to plead for two things. First, in relation to the refusal file, Fedris should at least allow for an open system rather than referring it automatically to the court. Secondly, there must be real adaptation and revision of the criteria. The example of the pharmacy is extremely enlightening, as well as the example of the 1.5 metre distance, which for me no longer stands on the road today, given the criterion of aerosolisation which must be retained in terms of contamination. In this regard, I would like to hope for flexibility on your part and an examination within Fedris to change the criteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u64	Mrs Fonck, I have also shown some flexibility in your reply and speaking time for the simple reason that Mrs Willaert wants to translate her last question on the agenda into a written question. This means that we have come to the end of our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u65	That is excellent, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic526x.u66	Mr President, thank you for your flexibility.
