ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u1	Mr President, why do we not continue the debate on the basis of the questions we have to ask, in connection with the debate that has just taken place?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u2	That's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u3	We continue in order of the importance of the groups, without referring to the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u4	Those who have questions that have not been formulated as part of the CRM and want to complete their questions can intervene. The minister replied, and then the replies took place.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u5	Madam Minister, a number of issues have not yet been addressed. A first part of my questions specifically concerned the option of nuclear life extension. I understand, however, that you are expected to submit a report to the government at the end of this month to discuss this further. The option of nuclear life extension is set out in the coalition agreement. This was discussed in the formation of the government. Questions have been raised in the European Parliament, including whether it is feasible or not. You have indicated to the European Commission for the Belgian State that an extension will be notified anyway and that a separate procedure will be followed for that purpose. How do you estimate the timeline itself? Has it ever been possible to reach that timeline with a decision in November? I would like to make an abstract statement of the fact that it seems that the government will not take a decision on this until the end of November. Secondly, I had tabled a general question about the CRM auction itself. On the basis of the answers given by, among other things, Mr Peeters, I find that in that T-1 auction more or less 6.4 gigawatts will be auctioned. Indeed, as Mr Peeters said, I assumed that 4.5 gigawatts had been allocated in the auction, whereas that is only 4.4 gigawatts. As a result, the figure is, in the end, slightly higher than the figure I have just mentioned. 6.449 megawatts will still have to be allocated, i.e. roughly 60% of what is considered necessary. Sounds like quite a lot to me. Mr Peeters did not address the question of the United Kingdom immediately either, but I think I am right that the United Kingdom itself will not be able to participate and that it is assumed that that volume is present on the market. Otherwise more than 7 gigawatts will have to be auctioned and then the numbers will change a bit. None of this is very reassuring, especially when I hear that if there is a problem with the permits for the new power stations, that volume should be added to the T-1 auctions. This means that 7 to 8 gigawatts still have to be allocated. So what have we learned about the capacity we have now allocated for 100%? Then it seems to be only part of the exercise. How can you rule on security of supply if you still have to take decisions in the government? The coalition agreement states that if there is an unexpected problem with security of supply, there must be other slopes, but the opposite is also true. Can you say today that there will be no unexpected problems with security of supply? If you have allocated only 40% or even less, I do not think it is so obvious to post that the supply is guaranteed. Will you follow that up in the government? What's the next move? Mr Peeters is not concerned about this. He does not expect the light to go out, because everything will be done to avoid it. I see other elements that feed my fear that the light will go out. By the way, large market players raise the same question in their communication and note that a large balance still needs to be filled in. I understand that all eyes are now on those who have made the bid, to keep their bid and to provide that capacity. Should I conclude from this that as long as the providers of that capacity do not say that there is a problem, the government will not take any further decisions on this? Or are you thinking about solutions? With Elijah I hear that there is no need to intervene, as long as they do not indicate that there is a problem. Nothing has changed for Elijah: they didn't have a license before and they still don't have one. Is that your opinion, too? Finally, I do not think it is a good idea if the turbojets, which are a very visible footnote throughout the story, were to emerge in future auctions. The opt-out volumes show that turbojets are waiting for the T-1 auction. Should we look forward to that from the point of view of sustainability, as far as you are concerned? The sustainability criteria you have now drawn up only apply to the large new capacities and not to existing capacities. Therefore, they do not apply to turbojets, except that those 350 kilograms per kilowatt hour may be combined on an annual basis with an average per kilowatt hour. The question is where you want to go with that story and what else you see in it. I am particularly looking forward to seeing how you will deal with matters or whether you, following Mr Peeter's slope, will not take action and wait for what happens next. However, the latter does not create much confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u6	Mr President, I am sorry to interrupt each time and to contradict your way of doing things every time. I'm sorry, but... so, here, we're going to go back and forth every time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u7	No. The impression was that a lot of questions were...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u8	Are you closing the second round? That's my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u9	I'm setting up the second round. Are there any other questions to the minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u10	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u11	And to the extent that a lot of questions have been tabled, I was asking if anyone wanted to complete the questions. I looked at the list. To the extent that Mr Verduyckt and Mr Ravyt have not yet asked their question, I ask them to ask it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u12	Mr President, Minister, what is your appreciation of the auction? I also agree with Mr Wollants' question. Do you agree with Elijah's approach to the concerns expressed and shared by my colleague? The operator brought in 1.6 MW of new capacity. What does this mean for the evaluation of market forces? I refer to the resolution in which you were one of the protagonists.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u13	Mr President, Minister, the market forces resolution was also one of our concerns. Could you clarify that more? The crucial question is, also because of the lack of clarity about the refusal of the gas plant for ENGIE, how to proceed? I would have liked to have seen more transparency and clear solutions in the form of legal arrangements. This is all happening behind closed doors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u14	Minister, I have not received many answers to the questions I have asked. Maybe that's because they had political implications. With regard to the grounds for withdrawing from the refusal of a permit in Vilvorde, you yourself referred to the existence of possible solutions. What are they? When will the report that will be submitted to the government within 15 days be presented and debated in Parliament? It will be of primary importance. You said that CO2 emissions will be limited since gas-fired power plants would not be intended to run permanently. Is there therefore an estimate of CO2 emissions per year and, if possible, for the next 15 years? This is an unsubstantiated argument that regularly pollutes the debate. Finally, there is one point that I believe is crucial for security of supply, it is the balance between T-1 and T-4, so the volumes that are allocated in T-4 and the volumes that would remain to be allocated in T-1. I cannot understand why abilities that were present in pre-qualification were not presented in T-4, except to put the state at the foot of the T-1 wall and have an impact on prices. Is this hypothesis plausible? Do you have any other explanation that would allow us to understand why so few capacities were deposited in T-4, doing T-1 something other than an adjustment auction, as originally planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u15	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, I have read the slides that have been communicated to all members. But we had already been informed by the press, which is a bit of a pity for Parliament. Indeed, it is important that the latter be able to have transparent and clear information on such crucial issues that span years, when decisions are made. These decisions have now been taken fifteen days ago. I note, moreover, that the slides presented to us are not those – it seems to me – that were presented to the government's reflection. These are slides of Elias and CREG. One question arises: has CREG seen the study of the University of Ghent that we have not yet received? I wrote to the chairman of this commission and to the minister who gave me a response from Normande. In other words, it has missed the question I asked and has refrained from answering it by referring to existing and already outdated studies or, in any case, far too broad to be able to underpin the focal point we are discussing today, that is, the point concerning the results of the T-4 auctions. In this regard, we find that we have new capacities on 4,447.7 MW of 36%, existing capacities of 56% and demand-side response at 7% with batteries of 1%. Thus, 8% (7+1) of 4,447.7 MW is not much more than what already existed. When we make a simple calculation, we find that there are risks in terms of security of supply, knowing that in T-1 we will be in November 2024 and that this government will have completed its task since May 2024, hence a legitimate concern. This is compounded by the fact that, for reasons related to regional legislation, the Vilvorde power plant may be responsible for which ENGIE has to take account in relation to the putting in order of its project, knowing that the two gas plants chosen are from a market in which only one operator ultimately dominates. I can still hear Mr Nollet talking about the necessary competition in the market and the fact that we could think of activating two nuclear power plants in Plan B of the government agreement, if competition or resources in the market were not sufficient. That's a question. The very central question today, to which we want a concrete, objective, documented and transparent answer, is the following. With an unenjoying picture that can give rise to legitimate fears about security of supply, what strategies does the minister put in place to compensate for this delay, in the least unfavourable case, or, in the most unfavourable case, for the absence of a power of more than 800 MW with the Vilvorde power plant which normally has to act in the new CCMT included in the Elia slides? What remedies, if any, would there be at any given time depending on the conditions of the public procurement? Even if the operator has to get in order, he can also bring appeals. Madam Minister, how do you envisage your new auction for next year? On what basis are you going to configure it, knowing that it has also introduced a new method, the European ACER method, which must make the selection criteria much more selective than today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u16	Mr President, I have written down a number of general, major topics that come back through the questions. I will then deal punctually with the various questions in order either to fall back on more general matters or to deal with specific points. I would like to begin with the many questions that have been put to Mr Peeters, but also to me, and which I would also like to answer. It concerns the T-1 and the transfer of the volume T-1. I have heard and understand the questions about security of capacity and peace of mind. The demand curve has shifted, as Mr Peeters has shown on the slides. At first glance, this can be very confusing or not reassuring. However, this also follows from the CRM design. Mr Ben Achor's question is pertinent. What could be the underlying reason why someone has decided to opt-out? Opt-out-in, people who do not want to participate in the auction, but are available, is a good thing for the price. Please excuse me for explaining it to you in Dutch. If the translation is a problem, let me know. The design is not so conceived that everyone who has capacity should participate in a contract. If that were the case, we would have to compensate everyone who has the capacity. The support of our mechanism could therefore be much greater. That's a theoretical consideration. You ask what will happen. It concerns existing capacity on the market. By definition, people with existing capacity in the market participate in a one-year contract. In the T-4 auction they do not participate in a one-year contract, because they know of course that the T-1 auction is still coming. There they can participate in a one-year contract. That is, in itself, normal market behaviour. They can, of course, make a better assessment to make a better offer. In any case, we know that the existing capabilities fall within the scope of the IPC. That IPC is set at 20 euros. The bidding behaviour of people with existing capacity is one of the aspects that we need to look at together. Mr Peeters said here that they would produce a technical report. The CREG should also be properly questioned about this. The CREG is also faced with the derogations. Under the obligation of the European Commission, we have had to register a derogation. The European Commission was of the opinion that everyone should always be able to bid their missing money at any time. Anyone who considers that he is insufficient with the IPC should be able to apply for a derogation and the CREG will assess it. There'll be a yes or no answer. The CREG does not have the ability to approve a little. I have established that there is a bid against the IPC. We have already discussed in committee that this possibility could exist, including for T-4. There this has not happened for the new capacities, i.e. the multi-annual contracts. On the contrary, the bids were far below the price cap. That's where the competition, the competition, so it did play, and we see an impact down on the price. That is not the case with the IPC. So before we establish the new IPC, what we need to do when we set the volume parameters, in February 2022, we need to have a thorough analysis of this, especially for the impact on the price, as Mr Ben Accour says. Also for the T-1 auction that still has to take place, the IPC is recorded by auction each time. A large-capacity provider has announced that it might participate, but we don't know for sure yet. We only know today that there may be availability by 2025, but we do not know whether an offer will be made in the T-1 auction. The parameters for the T-1 auction are still to be determined. A very big lesson from the last auction is for me the IPC and the bidding behavior around it. We should therefore also record the IPC. I will not anticipate that. The resolution provides for the Minister to consult Parliament if the Minister wishes to deviate from the IPC in the knowledge. During the consultation in Parliament on the auction parameters, Mr Wollants asked questions about this, among other things. I remind you that I had a report from Elijah, in which a range was proposed, 20 or 28 euros. My administration proposed 20 euros. Mr Wollants then asked if I had the intention to ask Parliament for a derogation from the IPC, to which I replied that I would not do so. In the resolution there was a deviation upwards, which makes sense. I believe that today we are finding that derogations are also possible downwards. In the facts we have seen that there is competition for the T-4, not against the price cap, but for the T-1 there is. For the T-1 auction we need to reset the parameters. In this way we can draw lessons today, to which Mr Ben Achor rightly refers, and take that into account, so that we do not get any upward pressure on prices due to strategic bidding behaviour. I hope it's clear to you. You are right if you are wondering if there can be an upward pressure on prices due to the large volume. After all, we see that there is an offer against the IPC. My conclusion is that, on the basis of what we know now, we need a more thorough analysis of the missing money on the market, in order to avoid over-recording the IPC, although it was fixed. We also know that we have a derogation. The CREG is likely to be dealt with here in relation to its policy paper. Maybe you should take a look at her face, because that means a lot of work for her. However, I am inclined to give the CREG a strong power to lower the ceiling and give it the possibility of a derogation, so that there is always a thorough consideration of whether there is an effective missing money. For me, that is one of the main points in the further evaluation of what happened in this auction. I would like to come back to the issue of transparency in various areas. This is more of a general consideration. Questions were raised about the transparency of the evaluation report and I am certainly prepared to have an exchange of views in Parliament on this. Of course, there has to be a government decision first. However, I am absolutely asking. Mr President, you probably know where that will fit into the agenda somewhere. We have, however, built up a good tradition here to discuss these different aspects each time. I'm prepared to do that. Mr Verduyckt, you also mentioned other aspects relating to the resolution of Vilvoorde. I don't know if I'm quoting you correctly and I don't mean pejoratively, but you said it shouldn't be a conversation between the minister and ENGIE. I agree with you 100%. Our energy policy has been ill for too long with bilateral agreements between one or more operators and the government. That's not the way I want to go. Apart from what the concrete solution will be, market transparency will benefit us. It must be clear to the market and to the market players how decisions are taken in our country. This must be accessible to everyone. There are still many energy players who are going to invest in this country. We now have a T-4 auction with which two gas plants are contracted, but we will still have auctions for a large capacity. Something might go wrong with that, too. However, the transparency that we need to show is indeed very important. Energy policy takes shape through a regulatory framework, royal decisions and laws. You are right to draw attention to this, Mr Verduyckt. That brings me to Vilvoorde. There were a lot of legitimate questions about that. Mr Ben Accour referred to my statement last week in plenary that different solutions are conceivable within and outside the CRM. During the follow-up questions were asked by Mr Wollants and Mr Ravyts, but perhaps they are also intuitively shared by other colleagues. Am I in there like Elijah and say we'll see? My answer is no. I don't think you expected anything else from me. However, this does not affect Elijah's position. Elijah is the network manager in this story and makes neither the laws nor the policy. This is without prejudice to what Mr Peeters has said here, namely that market rules are provided for. That's settled in there. I also think he has said that he will not anticipate how this is handled in policy terms. Let me start with the market rules themselves. In fact, the CRM design includes a risk management system, which evaluates at certain times whether the capacity is available or not. If not, the contract can be cancelled or shortened. The capacity holder must then assist in the secondary market. As noted here, there must be sufficient physical capacity. If we look at that today, that's a piste we won't leave. Of course, the first responsibility remains with the operator, who must ensure that he still obtains his licence. I can't anticipate that. Firstly, I am not the operator to apply for a permit, and secondly, I am not the licensing authority either. It is inappropriate to make far-reaching statements about this. I note, however, that there are statements in the public domain about this permit. In particular, it is argued that an authorisation cannot only be obtained by appealing against the decision. The competent Flemish minister has said that a new dossier can also be submitted, in which the operator will then have to explain how he will reduce ammonia emissions. So there are two ways of getting that permit. It should not necessarily be done by means of the appeal procedure, the time limits of which are known, and we can also follow the path of the new application for authorisation. The operator participated in the auction in full knowledge that he did not have a licence, knowing full well that his licence had already been refused and perhaps in full knowledge that his project had received a positive opinion. I would like to say that we must not leave this piste, subject to changes to the file. After all, it could still be an eligible file. This means that we must put sufficient pressure on the operator to obtain that permit. It does not mean, of course, that we should not look at other solutions. In this file, I don't assume that the permit will ever come. That does not create for us the certainty we all want. We want to keep the pressure on the operator high, because it is one of the cheapest projects. If there is to be another project in place, the price will go up anyway. However, if, on the other hand, we were to be faced with the fact that the project would not be eligible, we would also need a solution. I know that it is very unsatisfactory to say that I cannot anticipate this and I am clarifying the reason for this. We were confronted with this last week. It is not that we have not thought about this, but now we have to make these slopes concrete. There are a number of ways to find a solution, but I would like to come here when we have enough ground under our feet to avoid further speculation or ambiguity. I know that the experts and journalists are tripping over each other to say what is possible, but the market needs clarity as to what could be a possible solution. I'm not gonna slow down. We'll work around the clock to get to you as soon as possible and tell you how we'll do it. We're talking to the coalition partners, Elia and the actors to make that possible. These talks do not go on, as Mr Verduyckt suggests, as in a conversation with the operator. We can also see that in other auctions. Other capacities could be lost, so we need a robust solution that we can also use in the future. I have absolute confidence that we can work this out. Regardless of whether the permit is issued or not, we must also be able to get this solution going quickly. We'll probably start working on parallel slopes in the next few weeks. That's about Vilvoorde. In general, I would also like to comment on the aspect of CO2. That is, of course, a very fair question. Mr Ben Accour, you made the link to this morning's sitting, in which you spoke about the hours of work. Mr Peeters replied that in 2026 it was about 7 000 hours of work and about 4 000 hours of work in 2032. By then we will see this increase in renewable energy, with, among other things, a tripling of offshore winds in our country, but also in the direction of renewable energy targets in the Fit for 55. As a result, these hours of rotation go down, but there is also, of course, the demand for CO2. We need to look at this question for the energy sector as a whole and not just for those two gas plants. The first analysis that we need to make there is that industrial emissions from the energy sector are covered by the European ETS mechanism, of marketable emission allowances. This means that emissions at European level are regulated by a European mechanism, that there is a ceiling on these emissions and that this ceiling also goes down annually. In the context of the Fit for 55, the European Commission's proposals should reduce the ceiling by 61 %. So the CO2 isn't rising. We are playing in a European system here. Making abstraction of that is also violence to the truth. However, I have always indicated that we will also impose obligations at installation level and in terms of sustainability criteria. My administration has looked at the way in which it will assess the plans. This led to the inclusion of the sustainability criteria in the CRM after exchange with the European Commission, as this is not an explicit requirement in the context of state aid notification. However, we have deliberately wanted to include these criteria. A gas power plant, which we need in all scenarios, will not only reduce its rotation times, because renewable energy is increasing, but also has the possibility to run on another source, for example on green gas, synthetic gas or hydrogen. Such a plant may also have the possibility to collect CO2 in the future, and in other words, it can go hand in hand with climate neutrality. Not every industrial plant has that possibility today, but a power plant does. Nor should we forget that a gas plant also offers the necessary flexibility that we need in the system. Perhaps you will come back to me later with a reference to the MSR or Market Stability Reserve, which is not a complete zero, but remains a little above zero because of the technicality of the ETS. On this point, I would like to inform you that initiatives by the European Commission are also on the table for a one-off reduction within the ETS, the aim of which is to effectively eliminate existing large reserves and surpluses. In this country, however, there is no common position on the different entities as to how we relate to them. Certain entities are opposed to the one-off reduction of duties. Sometimes the CO2 debate is one with two sizes and two weights, but it is and remains a very important debate. We have to look at that, we have to answer that. However, we should not allow ourselves to be talked about complexes. The turbojets represent less than 0,5% of the total capacity and offered in this auction for a one-year contract. It is five turbojets of 17 megawatts, together 85 megawatts, which were offered aggregated for only 64 megawatts. They remain below the European CO2 threshold due to the low number of hours worked. They must, of course, continue to respect this standard in the future by keeping the number of hours of rotation low. The FPS Economy will check this out. Thanks to the CRM, turbojets will have to run even less or less. The CRM mechanism provides more stability and security, less peak moments of scarcity. The CRM is set up to compensate for the availability of capacity, i.e. not the energy supplied. It does this at the lowest possible cost. They get a fee to be available in extremely rare situations of scarcity. Investments will be made to improve their reliability. ENGIE stated that the turbojets would be withdrawn from the market as part of the adequacy and flexibility. The letter from ENGIE is also in the annex to the adequacy and flexibility and mentions end of lifetime and aging issues. What Mr Warmoes has said is certainly not correct. We set up a mechanism to contract capacity, showing new technology that we didn't expect and that's beyond expectations, like batteries, but we still have those jet engines. Of course, that's poignant. This is particularly an indication of the fact that in recent years there has been no or very little investment in energy in this country. We must seek refuge, and also resorted in the winter of 2018, to those ways of using that technology at peak moments of scarcity. Maybe that's right. It is a peak power station that can be switched on, which can deliver that energy at those moments. In today's world where we still have clean technologies, it's hard for me to accept those jet engines. In the meeting this morning, Mr Warmoes complained that I, as a minister, would always talk about investment, while he felt that the government would have to do it all by itself. Well, in this example we see the result of a lack of energy investment, of a lack of a regulatory framework to ensure that new investments are made. The point is just proved by, for example, the fact that we have adjusted the derating factors for batteries and storage in the context of the parameters laid down in the determination of the volume. We have set it down differently from what was proposed in the Elia report. For me, that is one of the reasons why these technologies can attract today. It is necessary that a government guides the market, and then the investments will follow. Of course, we must also look at how we can get rid of these polluting technologies as quickly as possible. I answered the questions about the IPC. Sustainability criteria, CO2 reduction plan. Mr Cogolati, my administration has also added that it will check this plan with DG Environment. Indeed, not only my administration but the Environment DG is responsible for all these tasks. A study is expected to be carried out in 2026 to present an emission reduction plan in 2027 in the light of objectives 2035, 2045 and 2050. Then why is this study coming so early? That's because the government itself needs to get a proper view of this. For example, if the operator chooses hydrogen, it will affect our hydrogen vision. We must then provide all the necessary infrastructure. We need to have a clear view of the plans in order to be able to provide the necessary regulatory frameworks. Moreover, we must also force operators to be faster so that they do not wait until one year before they have to achieve their objective. As far as T-1 is concerned, I answered. Mr Ben Accour, you had a question about the prices of gas and the prices of the CRM. High gas prices now have nothing to do with the prices of the CRM, which only starts in 2025. The publications, quotations and forward quotations no longer indicate such high peaks and the price is also clicked on. There is now a bid with the prices available, so that has no impact on the prices of the CRM. Mr Ravyts, I will give a nuanced answer to your question about dominant market players and market concentration. In accordance with the resolution, we have instructed the CREG to calculate HHI. We certainly need to discuss this in Parliament. The coalition agreement states that we are working on competition in the production market. At the same time, ENGIE's nuclear capacity comes out and other capacity is added. So it's a nuanced image. We must also remember that there are also surprising actors in the total of the projects selected. It is seen that security of supply in our country is no longer a matter for the traditional energy players and conventional energy producers alone. For example, we already know Zandvliet Power and ArcelorMittal, but there are also new players on the market. Sufficient competition will certainly be a constant concern. If you allow me a false observation, perhaps the operator will not thank me, then it can be seen that classical energy production remains in the hands of the classic energy players and that the flexibility we will need and which our energy market is constantly evolving towards will come into the hands of new players. In battery technology, projects of demand-side management and other projects we see a much more diverse picture emerge. In the past, in the central energy market, a strong supplier was an asset-backed supplier: a strong supplier had production assets and then almost nothing could happen to him. We have also seen this in the supplier markets: the suppliers who are in difficulty are often suppliers without production facilities. In the future, a strong supplier will have flexible storage or battery or load shifting at its disposal, which means that demand-side management, aggregation and digitization can eliminate a peak, e.g. for electric cars. In short, our security of supply in times of energy transition to more renewable energy also gets a more diverse picture. Mrs Dierick, you also referred to fines. The fines are not an end in themselves; the fine is mainly an incentive for the licence to be issued. That's my attitude. We're definitely more proactive. As far as the T-4 volume is concerned, I don't know if Elia answered. We are waiting for the calibration report, which will be published around this period, perhaps by the end of the week. Then the same procedure is started again: a calibration report from the system operator, a proposal of demand curve by the regulator, advice from the regulator on the auction parameters, advice from my administration, resulting in the fixing of the auction parameters. In between, there is an exchange of documents in Parliament, as we did last time. In the meantime, we have already learned lessons about a number of aspects, for example the intermediate price cap (IPC) as one of the auction parameters. I welcomed Mrs Dierick's question as to whether stakeholders are satisfied with the result. We do have to learn from the results. As I said this morning, there will also be a more comprehensive, more general evaluation to test the design. Mr Leysen, as far as the costs of the CRM are concerned, my administration has answered that question. That will indeed be part of the evaluation report. Today we know a part of the puzzle, namely the cost of the contracted capacity today. We'll have to expand that over the years, but we'll also have to make estimates for the T-1 auction. The first ballpark figures indicate that this cost does not differ from the latest estimates. I shall now turn to the supplementary questions. Mr Wollants asked about the option of nuclear extension and how I estimate that timeline. We have made a clear choice in the coalition agreement. The choice made in the coalition agreement is by definition no different from the choice of all governments for us since 2003, namely to confirm the law on the core exit. This happened in 2003, when the law was amended. Each government after that, 18 years, 10 governments, 6 ministers, have confirmed the same premise over and over again. In closing the Energy Pact, the starting point was not to return to the core exit and the core exit. However, in recent years too little has been done to start implementation. Mr Peeters called for this to start on time, a message which I am also taking with me for the T-1 auction. Remember the race against time, we then met here on a Friday to discuss the text in plenary on time, so that the law could be adopted in time, to be able to be on time with the royal decisions, to make the volume decision, to get the pre-qualifications started and to organize the auction. We didn't have a day of surplus. We didn't have a single day left. I don't want to see that again for the T-1 auction. I noticed this morning, bearing in mind the statements made by Mr Wollants and Mr Ben Accour, that the organisation of the T-1 auction is a major challenge in terms of foreign capacity, reserved capacity and transferred capacity. I will not repeat the mistake of my predecessors by waiting until the very last moment and will act at a time when there is still time. That's next year. You could see that on the timeline I showed this morning, which I have already shown several times. The preparation of the T-1 auction starts next year. The expectations are high. You made the essay earlier and spoke of 6.4 gigawatt, Mr Peeters replied. New capacity needs to be contracted in T-1 auction. That capacity will have to be realized in one year. So those will be batteries. That'll be demand-side management. That is gederate capacity; we must therefore double it to triple it. We can't just say:après nous le déluge, on verra. No, we have now learned with the T-4 auction that we have to take that into our hands and give it direction, and that is also what will happen with the T-1 auction. I have deviated a little from the question about the option of nuclear life extension. You asked me how I estimated that timeline myself. From the outset, we say that we will confirm the law on the core exit and implement the CRM. At different times the balance sheet was made to see how far we were with the CRM. I visited the European Commissioner, Mrs Vestager, three times to check where we were standing. Before we took the decision on the volume, I went to the Commissioner to see whether or not the CRM could be approved. At that time, I considered that the technical problems could be solved at that time. That was not a wrong estimate, because the CRM was also approved without conditions for August 2027. The results of the pre-qualification were not shared with us, but Elia indicated that there were enough projects pre-qualified to meet the volume. This has also been demonstrated in practice, because there has been an auction and the volume has been filled in. The fact that a certain volume has been transferred to the T-1 auction, including an opt-out, simply shows that the design, as we have established, is being followed. It can't be that surprising. We will now assess the impact on security of supply, what we need to refine further and what we need to strengthen. There is the licensing problem, which will be an integral part of the government's evaluation report. We will address this problem and examine its impact on cost. With the implementation of the 2003 law, we have never stood as far as today. The United Kingdom cannot participate at the moment, but it is a capacity that is available, i.e. free capacity. It can only participate on the basis of an agreement and subject to reciprocity. We have discussed the Brexit negotiations and the capacity of the United Kingdom on several occasions. The levers in this area are currently in the hands of the European Commission. I shall return to Professor Vandevelde's study at Ghent University. There was talk of peer review. We asked the CREG to submit its comments on the study of Ghent University. I have replied to Mrs Marghem that we will deliver the whole to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u17	You mentioned that lessons could be learned from the previous bids relating to the intermediate price limit. In fact, it is not surprising that they have offered just below the intermediate price limit. I also said it in the presentation of the Haulogy study: all the providers knew that there would be new capacity in the auction. All providers knew that at least one power station would be covered by the global price limit, not the intermediate price limit. As a result, it was possible to offer very securely against the intermediate price limit. That makes sense, and that is why we did not offer at the price limit of 75. In the meantime, it was realised that there might be more providers for a new plant than would be granted. If they wanted to align themselves with the price limit of 75, they knew in advance that it would be a difficult matter to still be selected. So I don't think it's a crazy story. Part of the story may return to the T-1 auction, because I am not convinced that all the capacity that will be auctioned in the T-1 auction will be covered by the intermediate price limit. If we look at what was above the intermediate price limit today, it was battery capacity as well. That is capacity that you probably expect in the T-1 auction and which you may think will be higher than 20 euros if it is retained. This means that the existing capacity is likely to again be close to the intermediate price limit. That is an assessment I am making today, without knowing at what level you will set the intermediate price limit. You said there might be room to lower that. This might be possible, given the possibility of derogation, although a number of existing plants will then find that they might have been better offered in T-4. That is the result: those who need less support, missing money lower than the intermediate price limit. If you then opt for a price limit of EUR 18, that also means that they will feel somewhat bought. That will be better than the missing money if they can't prove that they have to be above the intermediate price limit. In that sense, I understand the story, but it'll be a while. About the volumes that still have to be contracted, you say that this is part of the system and is not that amazing. If you look at the system, that is true, but that is not what you automatically assumed in advance and what you said in committee. The fact that 26 % went to T-1 was at that time a big difference with all other CRM mechanisms around the world. That was a lot more than what happened in all the other countries. Today we are not going to 26 %, but probably to 60 % or even more. Then the big question is: will there be capacity? I am not convinced today that all existing capacity will remain in the market, if problems with permits continue and if there are no longer extensions for fossil CHPs. Then it is possible that there are still some shifts and that it may be difficult to find that capacity. I agree with you that you shouldn't be as comfortable as Chris Peeters, but I think you should be even more worried than you are right now. What you know today about security of supply is just a puzzle piece. In the original picture, that T-1 auction was the last piece of the puzzle. Today we have a puzzle where, like everyone who makes a puzzle, you have first laid the edges, but there is no puzzle piece in the middle section. You can still see some of them in the box and hope they fit, but they will not necessarily be there anymore when you, your possible successor or you in ongoing cases, have to get that puzzle put in the auction of 2024. I am concerned about that and I do not see any guarantees for that today. With regard to this nuclear extension option, you have explained quite clearly that you are doing nothing else in this area than the previous governments, but how long have we been working on the fact that this nuclear extension could be a necessity? That is why it is included in the coalition agreement, because it could be a necessity. My real question is whether we can still do that. We have already put that question to the then future Prime Minister in the European Parliament and it was said that it was not a problem, that it would work perfectly. The Prime Minister even said at that time that it belonged to the operator's classic business risk. Where are we today? Anyone who signed the coalition agreement thought there was an emergency scenario, but actually there is no emergency scenario anymore. You have always indicated that it would be very difficult. On the basis of a decision by the European Commission, it even appears that you still need to carry out a new procedure in the field of notification. You say no, but one of the market players asked during that depth investigation what all that is here, that there might be a nuclear extension of 2 Gigawatt. The Belgian State's reply was, and I assume that if the Belgian State responds to the CRM that is your answer, there is no need, because we will notify an amended dossier when we decide on it in November 2021. This means that the European Commission must look again at the dossier. That procedure could take months or maybe even a year. When the Belgian State, whoever it may be, gave that answer, you already knew that your emergency scenario was no longer on the table. In the past, when there was still a government in current cases, I tried to take at least the first steps in this area and at least check the possibilities with the operator, not to decide already, but to at least know what it was like. The resolution has been on the banks here. The majority has not shown their willingness to approve them. She decided to drive to the finish line and indicated that if there was a wall there would be only one wall. Today you arrive at that wall and you must state that you have only one option. You need to go for a T-1 auction. Even if there is an unexpected problem with security of supply, you can no longer light that option. That is the situation we are in today. All government parties have signed the emergency brake scenario, which is not connected. That's the problem you're facing today. Madam Minister, you cannot tell me about CO2 emissions that if you opt for a technology that emits 40 times more than the nuclear power plants that it has to replace and which raises concerns about nitrogen emissions, the solution is the European system and that the European system will solve everything. Let's be honest. Today there is no absolute ceiling on CO2. That ceiling is buried with the market stability mechanism and the cancellation mechanism. There's no absolute ceiling. You say today that there is an absolute ceiling, that we should therefore not take account of these emissions and that it is all the fault of Flanders that does not want to work on surpluses. What are we saying today about coal and lignite plants in Germany? They also have no impact on the ETS system and have no effect on CO2 emissions in Europe. That's news to me. The fact that the Poles are still burning coal doesn't matter. This has no effect on the ETS system. Even more so, when it was announced here a few weeks ago that the federal government would save 25 million tonnes of CO2 extra, this included part of the expansion of the offshore sector in the North Sea. If I follow your logic, the expansion of the offshore in the North Sea will have no impact on CO2 emissions in Europe. You'll need less gas if you have more offshore wind and that's filled up nicely by someone else. If that's the reason, if that's the system, I'm really wondering why we end up putting these offshore windmills. I believe that they have an impact on CO2 emissions in Europe and that this will lead to a faster reduction in the ceiling. You say, however, that this is not true. Then my question to you is the following. What are we supposed to do that for in the end? You indicate that you are not a big fan of turbojets, but that there is actually far too little investment in recent years. Actually, nobody's a fan of those turbojets, you're not, we're not, nobody's a fan of them. I don't mean to say that you have to adjust that auction for delivery year 2025-2026 to get rid of it. That's not my intention. It's about legal certainty, I understand. However, I do think that we should tighten up the matter towards future auctions. That is why I put that question to Mr Peeters. Those turbojets are now the only form of capacity that has been derated at 100 %. They're supposed to be able to work anytime. That's the only technology that's gonna get that today. With regard to the ecological criteria, you impose them on the gas plants, albeit with restrictions, if they close the case by 2050, it is in fact largely resolved. However, you do not impose any restrictions on those turbojets. I suggest that we think carefully about how we deal with this and how we can ensure that we have different capacities. We all know that we want to look more closely at battery parks, for example. That is why I put that question to you in plenary. You did not want to answer at the time, nor did you want to answer in the coffee room, but perhaps you would like to answer one of the next sessions, because it is absolutely necessary that you take a number of steps forward there. They will be absolutely useful in the next steps to compensate the gas plants that may not be there. After all, neither is certain. I certainly expect you to take steps there. We'll see where you come from.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u18	Mr President, I feel like I'm listening to a striped disc that constantly returns to the same chorus: "we're going to replace nuclear with gas", "the cost is going to explode", "CO2 is going to explode". The minister has been available for Parliament since 10:00 this morning. We heard the SPF Economy, we heard the manager of Elia, we heard the CREG. It must be said in a frank and clear way: all the signals are now green! If there's one thing we can't blame the minister for, it's not being clear! The Minister of Energy clearly maintains the nodscenario, as we know from the beginning. It is also clear that the nuclear operator himself has been telling us for several months that ENGIE Electrabel has turned the page on nuclear power in Belgium. I mean, we're gonna replace nuclear with gas, but have you heard the numbers? I am truly impressed by the numerical and objective results of the various studies presented to us today by institutions whose impartiality cannot be doubted. 1.6 GW of gas for two units. The number of latest generation TGV gas power plants is divided by four in relation to the projections of some political party programmes that were in the former majority and compared to the Energy Pact adopted in 2018. The cost is supposed to explode. But in one year, I saw that the Minister of Energy instead divided the cost by four! When I got here, we were referring to this PWC study. We were talking about 600 million a year, which is huge. Here, we're talking about 140 million euros in T-4. The cost has clearly been reduced, and I am merely sharing figures that have been given to us by institutions whose impartiality cannot be questioned by Parliament. It's simple as hello! Yes, the energy transition is on the way in this country. I sincerely want to thank the work that has been done not only by the Minister of Energy but also by all these institutions and agencies, including the administration, that have provided incredible work. In one year, this government has succeeded in what no one has succeeded in the previous 18 years marked by inaction on energy transition. It was the stop and go. I want to say goodbye to these procrastinations and invest resolutely in the energy transition of tomorrow which will create jobs, which will make it possible to have a much more affordable cost of energy, of electricity in this country and will also enable us to achieve our renewable energy targets with a Belgium that is both 100% renewable and zero carbon by 2050. It is our course and it is this only course that must guide us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u19	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers and for the time you have devoted to this committee and to this Parliament. In terms of volume, on the T-1 auction, I heard everything you said. That's right, you're going to review the parameters and anticipate next year, etc. That's what we have to do. That's indisputable. In any event, a reality remains: by moving from a ratio of T-4 to T-1, 75/25 to 45/55 or 40/60, the vocation of the T-1 auction is de facto distorted. It will no longer be an adjustment bid. That's right! Therefore, there are legitimate concerns about the volume that should be contracted in T-1. We therefore run the risk of being back to the wall and that, with such a large volume in T-1, it comes back in a way to playing Russian roulette at that time. Concerns remain about security of supply. You have also acknowledged that the alternatives to Vilvorde - the lack of a permit is a hard blow - will have an impact on the price. You also acknowledged that the size of T-1 volumes will also have an impact on prices. You indicated that the price of gas would not have an impact on the cost of CRM. I admit that I have less understood your argument since the CRM depends on the missing money and the missing money depends on the price of gas and CO2. All right! The conclusion is as follows: for Vilvorde, volume T-1, at this stage, the cost is not yet stabilized. I agree with many of my colleague Cogolati's comments, but I do not think it can be said clearly and conclusively that the price will be definitively divided by four. What is certain is that my group fully supports you in the process of leaving nuclear power. There is no ambiguity on this point! We support you all the more since those who tried to make it appear that we could decide to prolong did so without ever asking the question whether we had an industrial partner, without ever asking in which position the State would be placed in the balance of power with Electrabel and the impact of this position of weakness on, for example, nuclear supplies, investments, etc. Let's recognize him, it was a swindle! Nuclear power cannot be extended so easily, in any case without answering the questions inherent in the hypothesis of an extension. We fully support you, but we must be particularly reassured about security of supply, given the volumes that will have to be contracted in T-1. The conditions were very clear for us from the start. We don't take anyone by surprise. We said security of supply and prices. There's still work to be done, but we'll have to wait for the report you're going to submit to the government. It is hoped that it will contain the necessary elements that will reassure us sufficiently that we are convinced that we will be able to take this absolutely necessary course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u20	I have listened very carefully to both Mr Wollants and Mr Ben Accour. The latter actually says two different things, as you will have noticed. He naturally supports his chairman, Paul Magnette, and covers himself by stating that the PS supports the nuclear exit. At the same time, he also expressed his deep concern about instability. However, he gives you the benefit of the doubt and assumes that you will solve the problem. So he gives two messages in one speech. I think that is a very curious attitude of the PS, but I do hope for them that Minister Van der Straeten will resolve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u21	My colleague, this is exactly the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u22	You say two things.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u23	I am sticking to the government agreement, which includes an appointment clause with two criteria to consider.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u24	We'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u25	Mr President, for the sake of efficiency which is dear to you, I will of course not repeat what others have said well, and which I very much appreciated for the correction and the precision, namely the intervention of Mr Wollants and the intervention of Mr Wollants. Ben Achour – with the mixed reading that has just been made by the previous speaker, Mr Ravyts. Mr Wollants says very well, using the image, that there is a stop brake, but that this brake is not connected. This is exactly the right image, and the situation we find ourselves in. We can hope, we can support, we can say that, in T-1, we will find all the solutions because we are going to work on it in a very proactive way, etc., forget that the previous government has installed more than 1,500 MW of wind turbines in the North Sea – we can forget it, but I say it anyway, as we recall the situation – and see if this government will install any megawatt in the North Sea before 2024. I think the answer is already no, since we are told that from 2028, or even a little later, 2032. I heard, "But no, we don't replace nuclear with gas." I would point out, however, that gas power plants will operate 7,000 hours a year out of 8,760 in 2026, and then 4,000 hours a year out of 8,760 in 2032, that is, in both cases, for years, much more than now. That's the first thing I mean. The second thing is about CO2. I agree with what Mr Wollants has explained perfectly. I would remind you that Europe is moving in a direction which, today, is to say that we are going to find a carbon tax that will include non-ETS. This is the case for all residential, mobility and agricultural activities, which will be added to the carbon market ETS, which, in any case, only increases the price of CRM. Indeed, our gas plants, which will operate at full speed, at full capacity, will obviously produce emissions that will become paid, and the price will increase to one tonne of CO2. This will have an impact on the final price, on the consumer or on the budget, depending on the situation. Today, Elia and CREG are relatively confident. I recall that Elia is a publicly traded commercial company. Independent point of view, we'll come back! One thing is certain: we have an operator (the TSO) who says to all the lines: "Finally, it is not we who are responsible for the situation in which Engie is in today's Vilvorde, nor for the situation of security of supply, since it is political decisions, for security of supply, and it is ENGIE's business with regard to this plant in Vilvorde." There is no simple, clear, clear answer on the replacement of this capacity, which is, for the time being, missing. So we're really in a situation of uncertainty right now. We need more than this monitoring which we look forward to and which must monitor not only the capacity to see if our security of supply holds the shock but also the price and CO2. I heard just a little bit about sustainability and therefore taxonomy. It is well known that Europe is discussing very hard whether we are going to put in taxonomy, in green investments, in gas, in nuclear energy or both. It is also known that this decision may not be taken until the end of the year. Within Europe, we see our neighbouring countries participating strongly in this debate on the basis of the JRC's report to advocate the sustainability of the nuclear power source. Others send messages talking about gas. It is mainly those who come out of coal and need to replace their perhaps aging assets that emit a lot of fine particles and CO2 (coal-fired plants) with a little less polluting plants, i.e. gas-fired plants. But whether you have a clear course or not, it is a transition in which you will, for years, emit a lot of CO2 while here you have assets that can continue to produce. It is as if you were telling an autoowner who can tax amortize his car in a few years, that after the tax amortization, he is obliged to buy a new car while he could still use his car – which obviously costs him less since it is amortized – almost for free for many more years. Here, it's the same thing. It is as if you were saying, when you have assets that are amortized and that we can enjoy economically, CO2 and others, that you are going to throw them away and buy new ones that you are not even sure today that you will have enough. It's still amazing! I therefore think that there is a well-documented matter for reflection. Madam Minister, we want to consult the documents you used with Elia and the University of Ghent, which you have, I suppose, ordered on the basis of a comparison between various development consultants who have submitted offers. We would like to consult with them to see on what basis the government documented itself to make the choice that was made two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u26	It is, of course, a very complex dossier in which the concept of a progressive understanding of all its forms is present, even to a degree that still surprises me as a young Member of Parliament. Less than a year and a half ago, a party chairman, who was then in the opposition and now in the majority, advocated keeping nuclear power stations open for five years. Certain parties who were in the majority about two years ago and who confirmed the core exit earlier now have questions. Of course, one is always in a very complex situation when the government sits at the table with large industrial players. They do not have to show their cards, while in politics it is part of the democratic game that the minister and Parliament must make known all options and all possible doubts. The coalition agreement states that the intention is to close the nuclear power stations according to the original planning, but that they are subject to conditions. On the other hand, we have gone quite far in that process. Perhaps with the wisdom we have today, three years ago, we would have programmed something different for the trip. I don't have a ready answer. In this important dossier, in view of the importance for businesses, citizens and the public authorities, I advocate continuing to negotiate soberly, in great openness and without blackmail. The policy to be pursued today is ultimately the result of the policy of the last 18 years, on which many parties have contributed. With regard to the parties that were not in the government then, I would not put my hand in the fire that they would have had the wisdom to do better automatically. The CRM is in fact a mechanism by which the public authorities intervene because it believes that the market cannot meet the needs of society and companies. Then the question must be asked as to whether this is the case and how we could have avoided it. Eventually, that's an extra charge. Capacity shall be paid for the provision of capacity. The market must function normally and will respond to this. Since we need to introduce a CRM, we, as policy makers, may not have been sufficiently clear to allow the market to adapt in time. A market adapts more quickly if there is a clear framework. In this sense, it is a good thing that the guidelines have been drawn up. Many of you share my concern about the cost. Such mechanisms are an additional cost because the market has not been able to adapt or adapt in time, or because we have not been clear enough. We have to be careful with that. We must not conclude too quickly that it will only be a fourth, on the basis of one figure. If we contract less capacity, it will also cost less compared to our plan. In addition, it is clear that there remains a high degree of variability.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u27	Mr Ben Accour, Mrs Marghem and all three of you belong to the majority. You say that you are complying with the government agreement, with a nuclear exit if a number of conditions are met. Mr Ben Accour outlined it. At the same time, a government partner says that the emergency brake is not connected and that you do not have enough data to ensure 100% compliance with the conditions. Mr Ben Accour also said that he is not sure that the conditions have been met. That is a very curious attitude. Politically, you have confidence, government policy in terms of climate and energy is at the mercy of the Green Group. You want to remain in power and not cause a government crisis. You're sure they'll solve it. That can be a credible attitude, and the future will prove it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u28	I have learned that predictions are very difficult, especially when they are about the future. We must also be honest, it is all too easy in this complex dossier to believe that everything is fixed and clear. The question of clarity, with the data we have, is justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u29	Mr President, I support the principle that Parliament has the last word, and you do not have to worry about that, but I would like to touch on a few technical issues. For the turbojets it may have just been rounded up, but in the facts there is a derating factor of officially 96 %. These turbojets were not offered as turbojet, but as SLA. It is cooked at five turbojets of 17 megawatts, together 85 megawatts, aggregated 64 megawatts. In the facts, this is a depreciation of 75% and officially 96 %. The fact that there are no restrictions in terms of CO2 is not entirely correct in itself, as they fall below the threshold laid down in the Electricity Regulation. I am prepared to consider whether we can tighten them up, but that is not what we are talking about here. It is not true that there are no restrictions in the facts; there are. I also do not accept the premise that only the edge of the puzzle has been laid and that there is nothing in the middle yet. That is a different matter from what Mr Ben Accour said. I don't accept that premise. It is true that the volume distribution over T-4, T-1 and the 26 %, distinguishes us from other CRM designs in Europe. The spread of volume was not so much a necessary adjustment as a guarantee of technology neutrality. In the facts, we want to ensure that we have a technology-neutral system. The ajustement does play for non-éligible capacity, but no one has said anything about it here. Yet that was also a great unknown, of which we had to wait and see how it would turn out. When we took the volume decision, many questions were asked, especially by Mr Wollants. What would we have done now? I put a big number on that. However, we have seen a limited adjustment of the demand curve for that aspect. For the aspect of non-éligible capacity we do have an ajustement, but not for the whole of the organization of the T-1 auction. I don't accept the premise, because the volume is an opt-out-opt-in volume. It is existing capacity that states that it will also be there by 2025. So it's not true that that capacity will not be there. They have only said that they will not offer on a one-year contract in the T-4 auction, but only at the T-1 auction, with all the consequences for the prices. We have already discussed this in detail. You say there's nothing there, and that's where you're wrong. There is something, in the middle of the puzzle, with that nuance that the price is not yet sufficiently known and that we will have to make assumptions. What Mr Ben Accour says is not a contradiction within the government. There will be an evaluation report on security of supply. Mr Ben Accour is right to make the point. It needs to be properly explained and framed. I don't have a problem with that. This is an integral part of the evaluation report. I have every confidence in this, too. With regard to the emergency scenario and the new notification, I would like to say to Mr Wollants that I did not make that notification of the CRM dossier. I did not stick the stamp on it and did not notify the file to the European Commission. This was done in December 2019. Afterwards, we unblocked the file here in committee to at least ensure that the European Commission could carry out an in-depth investigation. However, if the parameters have to change, they will. In this sense, this dossier, as approved today, as well as its notification, is a scenario based on a complete core exit. That's obvious. If those parameters change, then the file will also have to be modified. That is one of the consequences of the choices we have made. As Mr Ben Achour, Mr Cogolati and Mr Leysen have said, there must be an industrial partner. However, I hear an operator today saying that he is not interested. We need to take note of that. As far as CO2 emissions are concerned, we must remain a little serious. It's not right that the ceiling isn't being adjusted. The ETS system works by reducing the ceiling by 61 % by 2030. The system will work. Professor Jos Delbeke, the climate expert who set up the system, has also confirmed this. You are asking about the impact of the coal plants. Well, by lowering the ceiling, the most efficient technologies will remove the most polluting technologies from the whole. So that just makes CO2 emissions go down. We shouldn't make a game out of that. As you said, Mr President, the CRM is there because the market cannot respond to it, which is why the European Commission had to approve it. In any case, when a public authority grants subsidies, there is an intervention in the market and that is precisely why the European Commission's assessment of the compatibility of State aid with the internal market was carried out. The cost is, of course, a concern of all of us. With what we know now, we are still on track on the basis of the estimates made, but we cannot look into the future and should not crow victory in advance. However, we must also stick to the facts and learn from our experiences and thus further optimize the design.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u30	Madam Minister, I have made it clear that the turbojets have gone down to 100%. That's just a fact. Indeed, they did not offer turbojets, but they did offer a depreciation rate of 100 %. As far as the capacity that is not eligible is concerned, we raised the question at the time as to whether it was wise for you to add everything to it. Today we see in the figures that of what you added, 1 gigawatt is being adjusted. That's not very small. It's about a lot of capacity and it means that a total of almost 11 gigawatts will be auctioned over the two auctions together. That is a lot more than what you announced when we debated it. That certainly makes a difference. As far as the emergency scenario is concerned, I think the consultation was carried out during the in-depth review and at that time an answer was received from the Belgian State that it would notify again. You are right that the notification during the current business period has also taken place with a complete core trip, but you have all, in all conscience, registered in the government agreement an emergency scenario and you knew that the operator had to decide by the end of 2020. However, you have all said that this is not true and that it could be done later. This was confirmed in the hearing by the man who was then to become prime minister. Now you say it's the operator who made the decision. It has been said to the operator: we are not going to decide, even if you are late, even if you say that you will not have enough 11 months to get all this done, we are going to do it anyway. What happened? The operator says: I am indeed too late, I do not do it anymore. You knew that in advance. That's why I'm saying the government's emergency scenario was fake from the beginning. It always has been. You may have gotten some people into that story, but a lot of people at the table knew at the time it was fake. That's my point. As far as CO2 emissions are concerned, I have just said that there is no absolute ceiling. There is no absolute ceiling either, because if CO2 emissions fall faster, then the ceiling also falls faster. That's what this is about. You say that I claim that the ceiling on CO2 emissions does not fall. I never said that. I'm just saying there's a difference. If you reduce emissions, the ceiling will go down faster. The gas plants are not helping to bring down the ceiling faster. That's what I said. You can't argue with that here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u31	Minister, things need to be made very clear. I think we need to be even more reassured on several points. As I said to you in plenary, we are subject to an obligation of result for a very simple reason: there is no other solution. Over time, I have become convinced, beyond reasonable doubt, that the extension of nuclear power is no longer possible. Not only is it no longer so, but it is also not desirable, given the situation of extreme weakness in which the State would be placed. Financially, the consequences would be extraordinary. Again, if you wish, we can deepen the issue of nuclear supplies. After Engie repeated for months that she would not extend beyond the December 2020 deadline, her officials said it was not bluff. If we could even force them to extend, imagine what they would demand from the state in terms of provisions, investments, etc. It would cost billions. Technically, we have to listen to what Engie says - it's not possible - but if it were, it would be extremely expensive. I ask those who suggested that the extension was possible: who would pay the bill? [[(Brouhaha]] [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u32	Mr. Ben Achour, we'll finish. Closing time!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u33	Mr President, we have concerns and must be reassured about the points that are set out in the government agreement. We repeat that there is no other solution. So, minister, I'm sorry to put pressure on you, but there is an obligation of outcome: we must succeed in putting this CRM in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u34	Mr President, first of all, the purpose of an emergency clause is never to resort to it. If all the conditions are met in terms of security of supply and cost, it is logical not to use them. You can't blame the minister. I understand that activating this emergency clause would be similar to taking advantage of a car that has already been amortized in the past, etc. No! I would like to use the metaphor of the car, but extending the Belgian nuclear facilities would be like investing 1.2 billion euros to extend the life of a used car that is already 40 years old. I'm sorry, but that would be ridiculous! It would not be a good public choice, nor a political choice for the future. The truth - I allow myself to reply to Mr Wollants - is that the aim of the whole ETS system is a closed envelope. It is well known that not all economic and industrial sectors are included in the ETS sector, but this is the case in the energy sector. We know that with the Fit for 55 package, we have a goal: to reach -55% CO2 by 2030. But on the ETS envelope, we have -61% compared to 2005, and not 1990. This envelope decreases from year to year. I even think it's down 4.4% annually. The truth is that this envelope is falling and that the emissions of the future turbine-gas-vapour (TGV) plants of the latest generation will be counted in this envelope, the amount of which will decrease anyway in order to achieve the climate objectives of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u35	We need a little logic. According to Mr Cogolati, the emergency scenario was in the coalition agreement but it was known from the outset that it might never have to be used. Others, such as the PS, you and Mrs Marghem, took that emergency scenario seriously and thought we might need it. Now Mr Ben Accour says that as time progressed, it became clear that the emergency scenario was no longer possible. It's called a moving insight. Everyone knew as early as October that the emergency scenario was not credible. The N-VA and the Flemish Interest said the same at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u36	Mr Cogolati, as far as your example of the 40-year-old car is concerned, we still have to bring things back to their fair share. Comparisons are made on tax depreciation. You know that very well. You may own a car over 40 years old. But, most of the time, the citizen uses the same car for a maximum of five to ten years. On the other hand, there will never be agreement on the CO2 component. Many people are asked to buy an electric car when they feel that it is completely foolish to own an electric car powered mainly by gas production. This is a fundamental problem. As for CRM, it was said earlier that this was not notified until December 2019. However, I would like to point out that if I had not worked in the day-to-day business so that things could progress, we would be even less far away today. And we were in business because the N-VA left the government in December 2018. You have to tell the truth!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic626x.u37	A coalition agreement was reached, with a plan A and a plan B. That plan B was intended for an emergency, but of course no one wants that emergency to occur. The assessment will always be good. For the rest, I believe we have agreed that the enthusiasm for finalizing the end of life of nuclear power plants is not to varying degrees among the government's partners. That is also a reality. As the latest experience from Glasgow, I would like to point out that someone from the European Commission said with great enthusiasm that the ETS would solve everything. However, let us be realistic about what will or will not fall within the ETS will require some discussion. I noted at the time that there would be exceptions to the ETS. He laughed at the fact that an exception is the oxygen of politics, to which I implied that such a regime would rather be the CO2 of politics, as in our tax regime, where the exception regimes shattered the soup. I would like to conclude by thanking all of you for the vigorous debate that has been held in a proper manner. Madam Secretary, we are looking forward to the follow-up. We are hungry for more information .
