ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u1	Mr Minister, Infrabel uses a kind of poison train, as people call him, and has been allowed to use it on satsumas, although it has been prohibited for years for individuals. Infrabel has signed a contract with Bayer Crop Science. This agreement provided for the rental of a special train by Bayer Crop Science and had a duration of four years. Before that, there was a British company, Weed Free, that used a high-tech sprinkler train equipped with computer sensors and sprinklers. Weed Free contested Bayer's choice and has been transferred to the Council of State. Indeed, they claim that Bayer could not demonstrate that the irrigation of the train vegetation at a speed of 60km/h actually has an effect. It wouldn't have been tested either. In any case, the ruling of the Council of State states that this method must be stopped. For me, it is flagrant and hallucinating that the discussion is not about the substance of the matter. It is not about whether or not to use satsumas, which has been under discussion for a long time. Trade unions have also already intervened on this issue. There is also a report from the CPBW from 2018 that has already discussed possible alternatives to arthropods. The High Health Council in Belgium has been advising for some time that there should be a reduction in the use because it may be carcinogenic and that an alternative should be sought. This was actually about a contract concluded between Infrabel and Bayer Crop Science. Mr Minister, I have a few questions about that. Are you aware of the harmful effects of arthropods on public health, on the staff of Infrabel and the people who work in subcontracting? What is your position as Minister on the fact that, on the one hand, the private sector is banned from using arthropods, but, on the other hand, a public body such as Infrabel can continue to use it? Has Infrabel already been looking for alternatives to those products that contain fertilizers? If so, what are the conclusions of that investigation? How many liters of grapefruit-containing weedkiller does Infrabel use annually and who is their supplier? How many liters does Infrabel have of this in stock? In what way does Infrabel protect its own staff, the staff of the subcontractors and, of course, the neighbors with a garden in the immediate vicinity? How does Infrabel check the correct use of these products?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u2	Mrs Daems would join, but I don't see her in the room. That is why I give the floor to Mr De Spiegeleer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u3	Mr Minister, Infrabel's use of arthropods does indeed continue to raise questions. I will not read out my full introduction, but I will confine myself to repeating my questions as tabled. What is the state of play in the negotiations with the Walloon Region? This was the only region that had not yet granted a licence. Is there already a plan B ready in case the Walloon Region would not allow an exception? In other words, how will Infrabel keep the traces in that region weed-free? Is Infrabel researching alternatives to satsumas for the time when this product will be definitively prohibited? That day will come, of course. If so, what stage is this investigation process at? Are there any full alternatives? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u4	Mr Laaouej is not yet here either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u5	Madam President, Minister, I will move beyond the legal debates in relation to the Council of State. As far as the substance of the problem is concerned, weeding is a necessity on a network as dense as ours. But extending the use of glyphosate is not good news, either for health or for the environment. Glyphosate is a probable carcinogen, recognized by the World Health Organization. In our country, the Higher Council of Health recommends a gradual reduction and total release of glyphosate before the end of 2022. At European level, different countries are moving forward on alternatives for the maintenance of their railways. France opted for a product based on pelargonic acid. These are natural products but remain hard for vegetation. It is also based on Belgian detection systems for reductions in the quantity of applied products. It is known that the amounts of glyphosate used are reduced each year on the Belgian network. France is pursuing research. We're talking electromagnetic waves. Germany is ahead of electric weeding, Switzerland is ahead of water vapour weeding. This search for alternatives, given the dangers of glyphosate, is necessary and indispensable. Minister, what is Infrabel's schedule for the complete release of the use of glyphosate? In the context of Infrabel's new three-year plan, will use be further reduced? Does Infrabel contribute to the search for alternatives? Is an alternative scenario studied preferred at this stage? What are the safeguards for staff? Is manual weeding possible, even partially, to reduce pesticide application areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u6	Minister, the previous speakers have made a very broad statement on the issue. The essence has been said. Infrabel uses pesticides, in particular teratine, to keep the spores and railway berries weed-free. The product is dangerous and can damage health and the ecosystem. It must no longer be used by private individuals. Infrabel writes in his environmental policy plan to be looking for alternatives. Mr Minister, what is the state of play in the search for alternatives to satsumas? Do you think it's a good piste to use staff for the removal of weeds? Do you think that Infrabel's efforts to use more environmentally friendly alternatives are sufficient? Is risk analysis carried out on the impact of the use of arthropods? Can you tell what the cost is for the deployment of the Weedfree train in 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u7	I had also tabled a question on this subject myself, but Mr Laaouej is now present and will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u8	Mr Minister, the press recently referred to a decision of the Council of State which would suspend Infrabel's authorization to spray glyphosate, a powerful herbicide, along the railways in the Flemish and Brussels regions. Several workers' organisations have told you of the potential danger of this practice on the health of workers at Infrabel, but also on the health of the inhabitants living near the railways. As we know, glyphosate, this "broad spectrum" weed remover, was classified as "probable carcinogen" in 2015 by the International Cancer Research Centre (IARC), under the authority of the World Health Organization (WHO). It is our responsibility that Infrabel organizes twice a year a weeding campaign along the railway tracks. This year, the April and May campaign could not take place, as the market was suspended by the Council of State. Minister, this is not an easy subject and I know your sensitivity on this issue. However, I wonder about the political relevance of this authorisation granted by some regional ministers in both Flanders and Brussels. How can we justify the ban on the sale of this product to individuals, voted by Parliament, if our public companies do not set an example? More fundamentally, I wonder about the potential dangers of applying a herbicide - probably carcinogenic, let us repeat it - over hundreds of kilometres of tracks and in the immediate vicinity of dwellings when it comes to railways in our cities. I am thinking in particular of Brussels, where there are some roads adjacent to many houses, residential gardens, vegetable gardens and hives. I think, Mr Minister, that we can no longer content ourselves with doing the same thing as before and with continuing this practice that we know today to be dangerous for the environment and for the health of our citizens, even though I know that alternatives are complex and sometimes difficult to put in place. Minister, I will limit myself to one question. Based on the decision of the Council of State, do you intend to permanently prohibit Infrabel from using and spraying glyphosate on our railways? Some additional elements came to me between the tabling of my question and today. It is not the authorisation to use glyphosate that has been suspended, but the contract granted to Bayer to weed, for technical reasons, I am told. I am also told that alternatives are complicated because they would have to interrupt certain lines. That is not impossible, but I would like to hear from you on this technical aspect. There are also agreements between Infrabel and the Regions to reduce the use of glyphosate from year to year. What about it? These are the things I wanted to bring to the attention of the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u9	Mr Minister, I did not expect this debate on glyphosate in the Committee on Mobility. I know your sensibilities well. Some colleagues have already said so. I am the mayor of a commune along the Grand-Ducal border and you know that your ecologist colleagues in the Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg have been so active in this country that the Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg has completely banned the use of glyphosate, a decision also taken unanimously in my commune, including in the agricultural sector. Mr Minister, I really count on you and I insist that in the government you act so that we can come to the same situation in Belgium. I know that skills are shared. Rather, federal jurisdiction relates to commercialization and regional jurisdiction relates to use. But I can point out that the Walloon Region, as far as the agricultural world is concerned, has set up in several natural parks a management service which allows farmers to follow very closely and direct them towards solutions other than the use of glyphosate. Mr Minister, I really count on you - it is more a wish than a question - to act within the government to achieve, as in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, a new situation in Belgium. Indeed, as colleagues have said, and I am also convinced that health comes first. We must make every effort to live in a different world and that will use other weeding techniques than the glyphosate that followed atrazine, another total weed remover. I really insist that the government move in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I will put my question from the chair, if that's all right. Minister, this is not the first time I have questioned you about this. I've already questioned you in the past about Infrabel's use of fertilizers. I also asked your predecessor for figures on this, which showed that in 2015, 11,000 kilograms were used, whereas today it is about 3,000 kilograms. That is, of course, a serious reduction, but in a hurray mood I can't get out of it. We know that these substances are harmful to the environment. There are alternatives, but they require research. In a previous reply, you said that, according to Infrabel, the alternatives cannot always be implemented on a large scale, but that is the way forward. Infrabel now again asked for an exception from the Regions in order to be able to continue working with satsumas, but I hope that we can evolve and that it was the last time it had to apply for that exception. That is why I have the following questions which are in line with the questions put by my colleagues, Minister. How has the use of fertilizers and other pesticides been reduced in recent years? When does Infrabel foresee the end of the use of phenylalanine? What possible alternatives is Infrabel currently studying?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u11	Mr Roggeman, would you like to take the floor on the questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u12	Madam President, since it is a topical debate, there is a possibility, even if I had not tabled an oral question. I do not want to repeat myself, because colleagues and yourself have already said a great deal, but I would like to raise a point that has not yet been raised in the debate, in particular that in 2016, almost five years ago, the Chamber of Representatives adopted a resolution in which it opposes the use of arthropods and other herbicides by Infrabel and explicitly calls on Infrabel to provide for a different approach. In the meantime, we're five years later. The deadlines suggested at that time have long been exceeded. Mr Parent has already explained that technology has not stopped either and that many alternative control mechanisms have been invented. What is the state of play now, Minister? To what extent does Infrabel work on this? It is clear that, unfortunately, it has not been able to meet the requests in the 2016 resolution, but I hope to know that steps are still being taken in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u13	Does anyone wish to join the debate? [[No.]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for asking me about this vital issue. Reducing and, as soon as possible stopping the use of chemical herbicides is a priority for me, both in terms of my mobility skills and for society as a whole. It is not only about protecting the health of our citizens, workers and residents, but also about stopping the collapse of biodiversity. In addition, this objective should be a cross-cutting and ongoing priority at all levels of government and in all departments. I think it is essential that you recall it through your questions, which also bear witness to an evolution of the consciences that I am delighted with. Indeed, I am not sure that, a few years ago, we would have witnessed such unanimity in order to ask for action to limit or suppress glyphosate. In my very first contacts with the officials of the two railway undertakings, after my swearing-in on 1 October, I highlighted the need to move towards the elimination of chemical herbicides. I then referred to this in front of you when I presented my policy note last November. I stress again and again the interest of our railway undertakings to take a European leadership position in the development of innovations in this field, particularly in this difficult issue of weeding the tracks for all railway companies. This is a security issue, which they all face. Weeds are not for the pleasure of the eyes, but to protect the ballast and the way. Since 2019, Infrabel has embarked on the gradual elimination of these herbicides. I explicitly asked him to speed up the movement. You mustn't lie either: he's an ecologist talking to you. As I reminded you, weed removal is necessary for security issues. Finding new, efficient and practical solutions takes a little time – which I sincerely hope will be as short as possible. I've been a minister for less than a year. As in other areas, it is important to review long-established policies and habits. This is not possible in a few months, especially as it depends on a general framework that you have recalled: first, federal marketing powers and, secondly, regional authorisations for use. To the many technical questions I give the answers of Infrabel. Infrabel has so far found no alternative techniques that can be widely applied on railway domains without compromising the safety of the operation of the rail network. This is also the case for railway undertakings in other countries. Infrabel only uses authorised herbicides for the railway domain in accordance with the product authorisations of the FPS Public Health. This use also takes place on the basis of the authorisations given by the different regions. For Wallonia, discussions are under way with the cabinet of my excellent colleague, Mr Céline Tellier, in order to obtain an exemption. During the discussions that Infrabel had with Minister Tellier's cabinet in April, the safety criteria for rail operation, the pesticide reduction action plan, the availability of alternative techniques for the railway domain and innovation projects were discussed. Infrabel assures me that the necessary safety requirements for the use of the products are laid down and that all protective measures are applied. Measures have also been taken to prevent the spread to adjacent lots, in accordance with legal obligations. Herbicides are only used locally. The operating train is equipped with a system for the automatic detection of vegetation, in order to limit the amount of herbicides used to what is strictly necessary. The use of herbicides is in accordance with the conditions imposed by regional authorities. Since Infrabel is not itself responsible for the spraying activities, but contractors were entrusted with that task, it does not have a structural stock of the products concerned. It is also the contractors who determine the measures for their staff. The contractor's operational executive staff shall also have a phyto-licensing licence, in accordance with the legal obligations and as imposed in the maintenance decks. The activities of the contractors are coordinated and supervised by Infrabel staff. After each day's performance and after each campaign, contractors must notify the registration of the activities carried out. Beyond these precautionary measures and the strict limitation of the use of these substances, of their progressive reduction, beyond the technical, mechanical or thermal use where possible, there is the commitment made by Infrabel – before my arrival but also at my request – to dispense with this type of herbicide as soon as possible. Thus, Infrabel is actively seeking, in consultation with the international railway sector, with other companies, with entrepreneurs, with knowledge centres, based on the skills of its engineers, innovative alternatives for the maintenance of the railway network. These include electrical techniques, bio-herbicides, specific plantations, the technical, operational and financial feasibility of which is being analysed. I hope that this research will be completed quickly. I strongly encourage Infrabel. At each meeting with the CEO of Infrabel to take stock of the current cases, this question comes back. Finally, I stress that Infrabel has identified biodiversity protection as one of its priorities. I am working with her to make this commitment a reality in practice. Infrabel, as a network operator, has taken many initiatives in this regard and is involved in the management of ecological areas such as Natura 2000 areas or protected areas and water abstractions. She plants hedges, draws up ecological inventories, verdurizes the roof of some of her buildings, and uses animals to maintain lane approaches. I think it is really the management to take and I intend to put it structurally in its future performance contract, which we have begun to negotiate. The work is under way, as soon as possible, with the full support of the appropriate minister I am.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u15	Minister, it is all going very slowly. More fundamentally, I find the question of why these cases are now being carried out in subcontracting rather than again by Infrabel. Sufficient resources must then be provided. Insufficient resources to ensure that weed control can be done in a faster and ecological way are now a fairly essential problem for Infrabel. The trade unions also ask that this task be re-sourced with Infrabel staff themselves. Individuals and farmers are no longer allowed to use arthropods for a long time, but they are allowed to use a public service. That's a lot of trouble, isn't it? On Facebook people react that their garden is close, they wonder if there are any dangers for their health. People are asking themselves a lot of questions about their health. Progress needs to be made more quickly to curb this use and to ensure that there are alternatives. In 2018, Infrabel, together with the trade unions, also discussed possible alternatives. Maybe the cost is too high. I continue to stress the need to increase Infrabel's budget if we are to tackle the problems of the fight against weeds.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u16	Minister, your comprehensive answer has not entirely overcome my concerns. Of you as an ecologist, I had nothing but your sharing of concerns. However, it is noteworthy that negotiations with the Walloon Region on the delivery of these licences are still ongoing and that Infrabel admits that there is no plan B to apply it on a large scale. The rail network in Wallonia is large enough to have a problem if the Walloon Region says no. I am not here on behalf of environmental associations, but even less on behalf of the Mauritanian lobby. Mrs Vindevoghel, I am a hobby farmer myself, and a picture of how my garden is next to it is still the best proof that I certainly don't use pomegranates. Minister, the essence of the matter remains the same after your answers. I shall return to what Mr Roggeman said. Despite that 2016 resolution, the federal government dares to ask for another exception to be allowed to use dynamometer on the train tracks throughout the country. I cannot get rid of the impression that it even poses that question in a rather intrusive way, read in the context of security. How do we remember that? While the private individual has not been allowed to use pomace since 2017. The product name Roundup is widely known. The individual was pointed at, because it was dangerous for public health, his children and his neighbors. The farmer is also being pointed at and guilty. Mrs Vindevoghel, in some circumstances farmers may still be allowed to use satsumas, but the restrictions are not minor and they must also obtain and submit a phyto-licensing. That's not easy. I took a course myself once before. We all know that a farmer prefers to sit with his cows or his tractor rather than on the school banks or his computer. It is remarkable that, of course, a public company such as Infrabel, which belongs to a purple-green government, in which you are once again the dark green exponent, still dares to ask for that exception in 2021. I find that hallucinating. We find nothing of the good example and playing the good family father, but unfortunately that is not new either as far as Infrabel is concerned. To be continued, no doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u17	I take note of the statements and objectives made by the Minister. On the other hand, I would like to stress very strongly the dangers posed by the use of glyphosate for the residents of the areas that are sprayed, and for the workers. I am of course thinking of the railwaymen who are close to railway rails and sprayed sites or who, in one way or another, are in the immediate environment of the product. I'm thinking of those who need to repair or build the rails. I hope that you can quickly find the best solutions. I hear some of them are already being implemented. You mentioned a whole range of possibilities. There are also burners; I know that in some communes weed burning is done to clean up sidewalks. Maybe it's a lead too. I think we need to be able to inform us regularly about the progress of your efforts with Infrabel and the other regions, as well as with innovative sectors that could present us with solutions that are respectful of public health and the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u18	Minister, many wishes have been expressed today, including by you. You recalled Infrabel's commitment to get out of glyphosate as quickly as possible, and that's the minimum. A series of comparisons were made with the agricultural sector or with the municipalities. I believe that the most important comparison in the coming years must be made with the other European transport companies, which face the same logistical challenges. With regard to Infrabel's response, we have recalled the past and the fact that there have already been parliamentary commitments. I think we should be able to demand from Infrabel a clear strategy, a roadmap, a comparison between the different technologies, their advantages and disadvantages, the time they will take to be operational and their cost. Until then, there will be a transitional period during which information to citizens and staff must be strengthened, beyond accompanying measures, to limit risk and quantities, and to ensure better management of natural areas. It is important for health and the environment that we move forward on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Indeed, you cannot be held responsible for the choices made in the past. I have already heard you say that Infrabel is prepared to phase out the use of pesticides progressively. I can only hope that, in view of your ecological beliefs, that abolition will take place more quickly than planned. Minister, there is certainly a great deal of support here in the hemisphere to support you in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am, of course, pleased that you have set as your priority that use should be phased out in the future. I didn't expect anything else, either, because you mentioned in your policy paper that it's a matter you want to work on. However, I understand that it is not an easy balance. What strikes me in your answer as well as in the answer I received to a previous question on the same subject is that Infrabel describes many alternatives as difficult to achieve. That's right, of course. I agree. It will not be easy to find a cheaper and less time-intensive solution. The only question is in what areas we want to set the priorities. The alternatives must be carefully examined. Maybe we can also contact abroad. We discussed with UBB in 2020. I know that they too are looking for alternatives and had good hopes of finding an alternative. Collaboration can therefore be achieved. Finally, we must in the long term obtain an ambitious Infrabel. If necessary, we must impose strict rules on this in the new service contract. However, the file will undoubtedly be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I've heard a few engagements and a few promises for the future. Infrabel's promises on this matter have been heard here in Parliament for more than five years. The questions of politics have been with the current and the previous coalition for just as long. For years, there has been political consensus among almost everyone, except with Infrabel himself. I hear new promises today. I have to do my best to be optimistic rather than skeptical. If, for the sake of clarity, Infrabel believes that there can't be and that there are no alternatives, I would prefer it to come out straight ahead rather than claiming for years that there might be improvement in the future and suggesting that she is working on all kinds of things. There comes a time when you need to be transparent. If there's an adjustment, I don't think it's gonna come spontaneously because of Infrabel. I get that impression after five or six years of promises have been made in this connection. I sincerely believe that you, as the competent minister, see it differently. That is why I ask you to stand on your feet and stand firm. From the opposition, we will also support you in this. Finally, I would like to voice a negative vote after Mrs Vindevoghel called for the cessation of the outsourcing of weed control. She believes that Infrabel's employees should carry out this task themselves. We know that for ideological reasons the PVDA and the trade unions prefer government employment, but, let's face it, the weeds will not happen any other way if you entrust it to statutory officials. So I don't quite understand that plea.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u22	Minister, thank you for your different answers. I agree with you that we cannot change everything overnight. We are moving towards a very profound change, and this is getting ready. However, I insist that Belgium follow the example of this small neighbouring country, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, and thus achieve the total elimination of this really dangerous pesticide. Of course, it causes damage along the rails, but it can also damage groundwater. And these water tables are the water we drink every day. Caution must therefore be exercised. I note that every time there is an increase in nitrate levels in one of our groundwaters, there is also an increase in pesticide residues. I really insist, Mr Minister, that together with the government, you should come to a situation which is changing like that of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, in any case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u23	Mrs Thémont is not present in the Chamber for her question No. 55015399C. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Raskin's 55015616C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u24	Mrs Dierick is not here to ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u25	Mr Minister, since 2013, SNCB has been planning to tackle Dendermonde's station environment. The planned timing, with realization in 2016-2019, was certainly not achieved. Your predecessor, Minister Bellot, in response to an oral question from me on this issue at the end of 2019, gave a new full planning of the various phases of the infrastructure works. The implementation of all the phases, which he then went through, would begin in 2021. Next week is June 2021, we are almost halfway through the year, and nothing has happened on the ground. That is why I am asking you this question. Is there a reason for the new postponement, because these work are urgently needed? Can you give an overview, like your predecessor, with a new timing when which phases of the infrastructure work will start? In particular, I liked the timing of the realisation of the infrastructure on the platforms, the pedestrian bridge, the renewal of the bicycle sheds and the upgrading of the station parking. From when will the car park at the station be paid for the passengers? After all, your predecessor confirmed the SNCB's plans. Your predecessor had no problem with making the parking pay before upgrading it. Is this still the point? If so, do you consider that appropriate? I hope I am not too ambitious, because in addition to the starting date of the works, I would also like to hear the end date of all the works from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u26	Mr Minister, so far, the Dendermonde station is completely inaccessible to disabled people, to wheelchair users. They must literally cross the rails, accompanied by railway staff. That still exists, colleagues. I left platform 7 this morning in Dendermonde. I recommend you go there someday, Minister. There is a shelter out of concrete to protect the railway workers during the bombings of World War II. That gives you a bit of an idea of the station's state in 2021. In 2013, SNCB drew up a master plan for a complete renewal. The start of the works was then planned for 2016 and the end date was 2019. That was shifted over the years. Former Minister Bellot replied a few years ago that the work would start in 2021, with the end date 2026. It's 2021 now, but nothing's happened yet. Apparently, no steps have been taken yet. I would like you to give me a state of affairs and a timetable. Can we count on the dates we will get from you on the new timetable? I would also like to know which works are given priority. All kinds of plans are being planned, please have an overview of them. Please also provide an explanation of the budget available for the works to be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u27	Mrs Pas, Mr Roggeman, SNCB informs me that the master plan has a long-term perspective for this district of Dendermonde. It provides for the complete redesign of the station environment. SNCB is concentrating on its main activity in this area, modernising station infrastructure. That project applies in the master plan and allows to build the other components in a later phase. SNCB has provided me with the overall planning for the renewal of the Dendermonde station. The environmental permit was applied for in April of this year. The tender is scheduled for the third quarter of this year, until the second quarter of next year. The works themselves then take place between the third quarter of next year and the second quarter of 2028. It should also be noted that works with Infrabel need to be coordinated and also depend on available out-of-use facilities on the railway line. The amended safety rules must be taken into account. These bring with them the necessary limitations for carrying out the work and have an impact on phasing. Phasering also depends on the introduction of the ETS system. In the first phase, in the first two years, the passerelle is built, with the elevator chute and the fixed stairs on one side. This work starts from the side of Saint-Gilles, and there is always work in sub-phases by platform. The underpass will remain in the service of the public during this work. In the second phase, from 2024 until the end of the works, the platforms are renewed, the escalators and the stairs are placed on the other side of the passerelle and work is done on the canopies and the shelters. This work starts from platform 1. Work is carried out in sub-phases per platform. At this stage the underpass is out of service and the passerelle, with lift and fixed stairs, is put into use by the public. The phasering of the renewal of the bicycle sheds on platform 1, side Sint-Gillis, together with a piece of environmental construction, can be done in parallel with the other work. This is done by means of a separate tender. In the light of the call for tenders in preparation, no details of the available budget can be provided. We will need resources to implement this. I am always glad that Members in Parliament are asking for this. That's a support for me. Finally, the solutions to remove water pressure on the walls of the pedestrian tunnel are not sufficient. Because the cause could not be removed, it was considered how to conduct the water as much as possible and drain it by means of a drain pump. The last procedure is the installation of rubber mats on the stairs and in the underpass, to ensure that accesses to the platforms remain anhydrous and safe. For the time being, this solution, according to SNCB, is sufficient to ensure the safety of our passengers, and no further interventions are planned. The latter was an answer to Mrs Dierick's question, I believe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u28	Minister, you may have answered the questions of the absent colleague, but not all my questions. You say that there is a longer-term perspective, but so much was already clear to us. Time-limits are always on the move. The realization, announced for 2016-2019, moved to 2021-2026, and now we hear from you that it will be 2022, with the end of the works in 2028. The fact that the works on the bike sheds can happen in parallel does not reassure me. Especially I didn't get an answer about making the parking lot pay. I will put another question to you, because I would like to get an answer to that. When will the parking lot be handled? Will the parking, as your predecessor claimed, be paid and if so, from when? If you do not answer that question today, I shall put it again separately. I suggest that you take a look at my colleague's suggestion, so that you can make sure of the urgency. Mr Roggeman left this morning on platform 7. For me, the platform was 1, so I didn't have to use the pedestrian tunnel. Despite the interventions to which you referred, that pedestrian tunnel still gets to deal with water pollution every o'clock. A station that in 2021 is still not fully accessible to disabled people, that is heavenly. I hope it changes soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. We hear the plans are being postponed again. The start of the works is now foreseen in 2022. We live on hope. I can only hope that the data will not shift any further, so that the works can be effectively implemented next year. As far as timing is concerned, I note that you have given rise to different circumstances which can lead to further delays. That doesn't promise much good. I also notice that you indicate that there will be no solution to the water pollution. In your explanatory statement, I have heard you say that the budgets are not sufficient. I'm sorry about that. There's 20 years of planning ahead. The completion takes place at the earliest twenty-five years after the completion of the master plan, so a quarter of a century will have passed. Even so, we will not be able to solve the water pollution, the flooding of the underground passage. I am particularly sorry that the bar is not just set a little higher. In any case, I look forward to the start of the works in the second quarter of 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u30	Minister, in May 2020 I questioned your predecessor, former Minister Bellot, about the decaying and defective escalators that needed to be replaced at the Lokeren station. In January 2021, you replied to my question on the works that escalators and elevators would be broken out from December onwards and new escalators and lifts would then be installed. These work would be given the highest priority by SNCB. Shortly afterwards, I was informed by a awake citizen that he heard from a message from your cabinet that there would be no work planned on the escalators and lifts at the Lokeren station. That's very odd. My question is more than a month old and in the meantime we have effectively started to break out of the old escalators. So the message is ex post already a bit corrected. However, I would have liked you to clarify the precise state of play and the progress of the work. Where's the deviant communication coming from? What progress has been made with the installation of the facilities? The work on the escalators is now in progress, but the lifts are not very much in progress. What's the exact schedule? Here we are talking about the Lokeren station, but we are also talking about a broader framework contract for the renewal of lifts and escalators in all stations. Can you give us an update on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u31	Mr Roggeman, I can reassure you. SNCB informs me that the plans are still as previously communicated. The engagements are clear. It is not because the construction works are now less visible, that there is less activity. SNCB confirms to us that, at present, structural work is needed to replace escalators and lifts at the station. After the demolition of the escalators the measurements were made for the replacement of the escalators. For the construction work related to the lifts, SNCB depends on the out-of-service operation of the rail, by working in the safety zone. That's why they only work on weekends. The works are progressing well. The new escalators will be delivered in May 2021 and then placed. A specific end date is difficult to communicate, as it depends on the moment of delivery. So all elevators and escalators are replaced. Work is under way. SNCB expects most of the refurbished installations to be taken into service just before construction leave. For the accessibility of the platforms, Infrabel and SNCB have jointly developed a master plan for integrated accessibility by 2030. Lokering is included in that plan. It is mainly about the increase in platforms and the renewal of platform equipment. Negotiations on the financing of investments are currently underway after 2021. It is too early to talk about the precise commitment. I did receive several letters from concerned citizens about the station in Lokeren. Unfortunately, one of them received a wrong answer, for which I apologize. That was corrected in the meantime. It's always better to deliver good news directly than with a letter. I'm glad there's been progress for the Lokeren station. I hope you do, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u33	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Torasters withdrew his 55016210C because he had already received the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u34	Madam President, Mr Roggeman, as you know, the measure to which you refer was an exceptional and temporary measure taken by the Consultative Committee on 19 March in the context of the containment of the corona epidemic. This Consultative Committee brings together representatives of the various governments of our country, including the Flemish Government, represented by Mr Jambon. SNCB has made every effort to comply with the so-called framework rule during the Easter holiday and the weekend of 24 and 25 April. Passenger flows were continuously monitored and passengers were channeled into the main stations of connections to the coast. If necessary, the Stop & Go procedure was applied. The communication around the busy plan has also paid off. Probably the rather low temperatures have also played a role. It is clear that this so-called window rule was really very exceptional. The train must first and foremost be accessible to all as the backbone of public transport. We must also pay particular attention to the fact that a large part of our population is dependent on public transport for its journeys. It is therefore important not to create a structural barrier that can hinder the free movement of persons in our country. We must absolutely avoid discrimination against other modes of transport. The duration of the measure was therefore not extended. Therefore, from May, SNCB switched back to the existing protocol for the rail sector. All seats may be occupied, but trains with an occupancy of more than 100 %, including the pitches, must be avoided. The duty of masking continues to apply on the train and in the station. In good weather, additional security personnel are deployed in the stations to control the big crowds. In such cases, the hustle and bustle plan shall also be activated, with a specific focus on communication with passengers. The preparation of the summer vacation is currently under way, although it remains to be seen how the corona crisis will evolve, as is the vaccination campaign. Cooperation between SNCB and coastal partners, together with the federal and local police services, will remain paramount and will be crucial to making this approach a success. The consultation with the coastal mayors and the governor of the province is and remains structural and is coordinated by the National Crisis Centre. Future relaxations, such as the reopening of the catering industry outside and inside, will certainly have an impact on the movement behaviour of the population. These and other aspects will be discussed at the forthcoming consultations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We can agree that this was not the best measure taken in the context of the corona crisis. You yourself stressed that it was a very exceptional measure. I think we learned the lesson not to do this again. You know that N-VA has long been in favour of measures that focus on circulation in the stations. Maybe that's something that can come back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u36	Madam President, Minister, I do not understand why these two questions were merged. The financial data of SNCB published in recent months are far from encouraging. Operational losses amounted to half a billion euros in 2020. It is therefore striking that the railways have increased their offer in autumn 2020, as well as on lines where it is not certain that this will effectively cover costs. To what extent do you think this additional offer is cost-effective? Will this increase repay itself? What additional revenue is this estimated to generate? What additional costs are linked to this? Was this decision supported by the full board of directors? Do you think it is a wise idea to organise an additional loss-making offer in the event of a full corona crisis and in the event of questionable financial results from SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u37	Mr Roggeman, you can also ask your other question now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u38	My second question concerns the 2020 passenger count. That census took place in October in special circumstances. It had a lot of feet in the earth before it appeared online. After I submitted my question, the results were published. What conclusions do you draw from the passenger count? As a result of the corona crisis, she does, of course, give a distorted picture. The occupation of the train sets is currently much lower. On the basis of this census, how do you plan the future supply and future investments?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u39	Mr Roggeman, as far as your second question is concerned, the results of the 2020 census will be presented very shortly to the SNCB Management Committee. The numbers are only one of the criteria for determining possible investments in the supply of trains. A distinction should also be made between one-off elements, such as part-time education, full-time teleworking highly recommended, the closed catering and culture sector and the use of the famous Hello Belgium Railpass, and more structural long-term effects, such as the increase in the number of days of teleworking per week in a number of companies. It is certainly too early to draw definitive conclusions on the basis of the figures. The numbers that were recorded in October 2020, when we were at the beginning of the second wave of the health crisis, do not seem sufficiently representative to me, unlike the figures we will have when the entire population is vaccinated and there are no sectors in lockdown. In the context of the thinking exercise to move towards softer mobility, other factors that are becoming increasingly important also play a role in the choice of the train as a driving force for sustainable travel. I am thinking in particular of the modal shift to combat global warming, the evolution of traffic congestion, but also of the fact that fewer and fewer young people are buying cars, which means that they need to be able to make more use of public transport. This is clearly the direction the government has taken: defining a railway vision by 2040 and developing a supply-side policy that will gradually attract more people to the railways. SNCB has been making every effort, at the request of the government, since the beginning of the pandemic to offer a maximum number of trains so that passengers can spread more widely across the various carriages and throughout the day in order to significantly reduce the risk of contamination. In addition, the Governing Council of 20 December 2019 approved a series of supply extensions during the years 2021, 2022 and 2023 through the Transport Plan 12/020-2023. The latter was confirmed by the federal government in April 2020. The purpose of the transport plan is to offer a targeted supply based on potential demand, which also takes into account the new infrastructures put into operation by Infrabel. These include a third and fourth track between Denderleeuw and Brussels-Zuid by the end of 2020 or the new station in Anderlecht. Since December 2020, for example, there are two IC trains per hour on weekdays between Kortrijk, Oudenaarde, Zottegem and Brussels. At the same time the suburban offer was strengthened, including in Antwerp, where taking into account the elimination of Oosterweel two S-trains per hour drive between Sint-Niklaas and Antwerpen. The details of all these extensions that were approved by the Board of Directors and by the Government can be found on the SNCB website, before '21 and beyond. In the context in which SNCB prepares the return of its customers, after the health crisis, and in which it will be important for customers to be convinced by the train offer to actively shape the modal shift, the first phase of the transport offer was rolled out in December 2020. The financing, like the rest of SNCB's offer, is guaranteed. The costs of the 1% growth of the offer since December 2020 are thus covered in the same way by the Belgian State as the 99% of the offer already rolled out before December 2020 and are not specifically detailed as a cost item. The whole board has validated the deployment of the transport plan, with the exception of two drivers who abstained.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u40	Minister, I would have liked to have some more details on cost recovery. It's too bad I didn't get it. This is, of course, in line with the mystery which SNCB would like to preserve in this respect. The company is very reluctant to give access to financial details about individuals, railway lines or train connections. In your opinion, the details are online, but for the financial picture that is certainly not the case. I understand from your answer that the costs are covered by the government. This means that the additional offer that was made in December is not cost-effective. In other words, this results in an additional loss for SNCB. Is this a sensible measure to take now, in full corona crisis, with trains that travel largely empty rounds, a decision to offer additional supplies that will also deepen the debt well of half a billion euros on an annual basis? I have serious doubts about this. I am in favour of increasing the supply of trains if demand-driven and an additional supply can provide an answer to a transport demand identified after research on the ground. That didn't happen here. I do not think that this is a sensible financial choice, but it is what it is, and I can only hope that the finances will be looked at and that SNCB will accept its responsibility, together with you. It is, of course, easy to identify the corona crisis in the future as a cause of an adverse financial situation, when one actually contributes to this by making such decisions. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u41	Minister, I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u42	The regulation on speed pedals dates back to 21 July 2016 and entered into force on 1 October 2016. I'm not aware of any problems with the practical exam. Nor is it clear to me why a speed pedal should not be used in the practical exam. If that is the case, it is up to my regional colleagues to adjust a sleeve there. Since the latest state reform, federal competence has been limited to establishing the necessary knowledge and skills for determining the AM driving licence. As far as I can tell, there are no provisions in there that would stand in the way of a practical test with a speedpiece. There are no plans to introduce a new category of driving licence. The European category AM applies to those vehicles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, even though you are somewhat denying the problem. I take note of that. There were problems for some people who wanted to take an exam. We'll take a closer look.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u44	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns an incident that occurred on Wednesday 21 April 2021. A test with the new so-called LINDA departure procedure for passenger trains was then missed. The test failed, but fortunately the consequences were limited. For some time now this would be a mistake with the new system. Now a train left, while the doors of the train were still open. Only by the fast, alert response of the train guide could the train be stopped via emergency braking, without any actual injury. It is clear, however, that things could have turned out differently, with deaths or, in any case, serious injuries. Mr. Secretary, can you confirm the facts? Have you been informed of the facts? Why does SNCB want to develop new departure procedures? Why is she working on that? What would be the benefits of the new Linda system, which apparently works with apps and internet connections? What went wrong? What was the cause of the incident? The next question is very important. Why are such tests, which are apparently not harmless, carried out on trains with ignorant passengers? Why can't that happen to empty trains first? Who made the decision? Was the board aware of that decision? I have another technical question. Why not opt for an already existing system with lamp doors? A simple lamp shows the driver that the doors are closed. What is the cost of the entire LINDA project? Will it continue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u45	Madam President, Minister, I will simply ask my questions, because the introduction has already been made. My questions are similar. What exactly happened during the incident on 21 April 2021? How could the train leave with open doors? What exactly happened? Has the exit procedure been definitively terminated? Why is SNCB currently looking for a new departure procedure? What is wrong with the current procedure? Does SNCB still have the DICE departure procedure? That was an idea from the old days with the One Man Car System. Is there any mention of that or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, SNCB has informed me of the following elements. The above incident indeed took place on the date you mentioned at noon in the Brussels-North station. It happened during a test for the next stage of LINDA, the new departure procedure for the trains. The new procedure comes after a serious accident on departure in the past. Due to a technical problem with the driver's tablet, the train moved when the doors were still open. However, the train guide made sure that the train came to a halt immediately, by pulling the emergency brake. I would therefore like to thank the train attendant in question for his vigilance. The train guides are trained for these tests and know that they need to be extra attentive during these test journeys. SNCB stresses that there has never been a problem with the safety of passengers or employees during these tests. The tests with LINDA have been temporarily discontinued and are only restarted after a thorough analysis and when SNCB has a solution to the technical problem in question. Tests in real conditions, with passengers, take place on this scale since November 2019. For some time now, tests have been carried out without passengers. SNCB informs me that hundreds of departures have already been made with passengers and that Linda has been successfully completed. LINDA uses 4G, which is necessary for communication between the driver's tablet and the train driver's smartwatch or smartphone. However, in some places there is weak coverage. SNCB is currently mapping these sites together with telecom operator Orange. Additional antennas will have to be placed. If there is a weaker signal in practice, the train supervisor can still tell the train driver to leave the train via the interphone. Staff representatives have long argued in favour of a departure procedure without the risks of the old departure procedure. Of course, they are also requesting the provisional termination of the tests, which have now been announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. A thank you to the train attendant in question is of course the least. The fact that SNCB stressed that there was never a problem for the safety of rail passengers is particularly strange to me. It therefore seems particularly logical to me that the tests should be stopped in view of what has happened. I understand that's a provisional measure. I did not receive an answer to my questions about the reasons and benefits of the new procedure. I understand from the people on the ground that they are in favour of the LAN-door system. Hence my question about that. I didn't really get an answer to that, just as I didn't get an answer about the cost picture of the LINDA project. I will perhaps ask those questions in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I still have a few questions to ask, especially the question: what now? The previous departure procedure, DICE, had already failed. Now LINDA is stopped for strange sounding reasons. I read about difficulties with the coverage of 4G, while SNCB has been expanding its GSM-R network for years. We know what capacity that can carry, don't we? I'll probably put in a follow-up question. After all, it is the second time in a row that the use of a particular departure procedure is stopped. Is everything gonna be okay? Or will a third attempt be made? What measures will be taken to avoid a third failure? I'm curious about the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u49	I thought the cost was 11 million euros. I also have a number of questions, including whether systems in other countries should not be looked at. I haven't gotten an answer yet. The train is one of the safest means of transport in our country anyway. But when things go wrong, it often goes badly wrong, with serious consequences. Safety on the track is very important. We have worked very hard on this in our committee. It therefore seems logical to me that there should be an in-depth investigation into where things have gone wrong, with a feedback to Parliament. We will follow up on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u50	I didn't get an answer to a number of questions. I find it strange that DICE's exit procedure, which cost millions of euros, has failed and that a new procedure has since been purchased, which allegedly costs as much as EUR 11 million. You must learn lessons from the past, mustn't you? How is it that such procedures are being put in place and that so much is going wrong? You mentioned the role of 4G, but you should have known that. How does the choice of such a procedure take place? How do we begin to do that? What history precedes it? Those procedures cost a lot of money. If such mistakes are made twice in a row and things go wrong, then we need to look at the way in which a new procedure is put in place. Is that gonna happen the right way? It is also very important for trade union organisations to be involved, because they are familiar with the field of work and can provide the necessary input.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u51	Minister, this question also dates back a few weeks ago. In plenary, you have already answered a similar question from Mr Toventors. I kept my question on the agenda, since I also asked Minister Verlinden this question. A few weeks ago social media showed up images of physical aggression towards a train attendant, and that is not an isolated case. I kept my question because Minister Verlinden's figures show that 271 employees of public transport companies experienced physical aggression in 2019. Although the figures are falling, the Minister was able to give me an answer, but at least one remains too much. Minister, in any investigation of violence against the police, Minister Verlinden will set himself a bourgeois party. Is that what you're considering doing in investigations into violence against railroad workers? If not, why not? In her answer to my question, Minister Verlinden indicated that the federal police, together with SNCB, are investigating the reform of the railway police. What elements are being investigated? What principles are at the forefront of a possible reform? What other measures do you think are needed to tackle this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u52	Mrs Buyst, allow me first to stress that I strongly condemn any act of violence, verbally or physically, against the staff of the Belgian Railways. I was informed of the intention you mentioned by SNCB at the beginning of December. Then I received a copy of a letter sent by Mrs Dutordoir to my excellent colleagues Verlinden and Van Quickenborne and to the President of the College of Attorneys General. I can confirm that both SNCB and HR Rail will be a bourgeois party as soon as a judicial investigation into violence against railway staff is brought before the criminal court. In addition, SNCB may also claim compensation if there is sufficient evidence to charge the offender, but the court decided to dismiss the case, and that can be done in an amicable manner as well as in civil courts. The Criminal Code considers physical violence against persons engaged in public service tasks, such as with regard to public transport staff, to be an aggravating circumstance. A circular letter from the College of Attorneys General on such violence recommends that both the police and the public prosecutor pay particular attention to those facts of aggression. However, SNCB has informed us that these recommendations have not always been properly followed in practice, not in terms of the reception of victims and taking into account their complaints, nor in terms of the effective prosecution of the perpetrators. In response to SNCB's letter, the Minister of Justice indicated that he had contacted the College of Attorneys General to evaluate and, if necessary, adapt the letter in question, as he did for the police. I therefore hope that in future the Justice Department will respond appropriately to this problem. Like SNCB and my predecessor, I am in favour of involving SNCB in the work on the reform of the federal railway police. Moreover, I have recently rewritten the Minister responsible on this subject and I can only be satisfied that this request is now being answered. I therefore hope that the federal police will get in touch with SNCB quickly, because this reform needs to be implemented as a matter of urgency. In the meantime, I can only remind you that the letter from Minister Duquesne of 2002 remains legally applicable. This means, among other things, that the railway police ensure safety in ten risk stations, which also means providing a reception point for passengers and railway staff. Unfortunately, however, this has not been the case for many months. As far as future reform is concerned, I asked for the safety approach of SNCB's Corporate Security Services, and in particular of Securail, to be taken into account. Safety is also part of SNCB's public service contracts. Securail is responsible for enforcing the law on the police of the railways, as is the police. Synergies must be established between federal and local police and Securail. The division of tasks between federal and local police is less important. What matters is that not only the entire network of stations, trains and tracks are covered, but also that all possible phenomena are adequately addressed within a reasonable period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. Indeed, you have already condemned any form of aggression and we have already regularly expressed our support for the railway staff in this committee. This provides important work and allows us to make nice and relaxing train rides to work or our family. Hopefully we'll be able to go a little more on weekends. Over the past year, staff have worked in extremely difficult circumstances. Violence against railway workers is therefore unacceptable. I have listened very carefully to your reply and noted that the situation is actually not optimal at the moment. A number of things certainly need to be improved. I am pleased that you are working on this together with the Minister of Justice and will also examine what is further possible to make the safety of SNCB staff a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u54	We come to Mr Sigrid Goethals' question about the SNCB stations in the Flemish Brabant, question No. 55016948C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u55	Mr Minister, this is a question that I originally tabled as a written question, but which was converted into an oral question, since I did not receive an answer on time. I am very aware that I am asking for a list of dates and figures, and I do not think it is very interesting for the members of the committee or the interpreters that you read them. If you can get them to me in writing, that's certainly enough for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u56	I will give you the answer in writing. I apologise for the absence of an answer to your written question. We are trying to avoid that as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u57	Madam President, Minister, the press has told us that an initial framework has already been proposed for the new management contracts of SNCB and Infrabel. In that first framework we find among other things an increase in the early and late offer, as well as the number of trains at the weekend. It also contains requirements for the reception at the stations. This surprised me for several reasons. Firstly, it seems strange to me that you did not involve the Committee on Mobility, which made a great many suggestions in relation to these contracts, in the drafting of them. Why didn't you? Why did you think it was appropriate to let the press know that first? Secondly, in the past several resolutions were adopted by the plenary. I am therefore surprised that there is no trace of this in these management contracts. I refer, for example, to the resolution on the implementation of the cycle motorways, which was adopted in June last year. However, it was strongly called for this to be included in the management contracts. There were also resolutions on the establishment of train points and on open dates for SNCB. Those are things that have been going on for a long time and have received broad support in the Chamber. So it seems very strange to me that there was no mention of this at all in the first version of the text. At the beginning of this legislature, you also expressed the commitment to achieving a strong increase in supply in the long term. In each station there should be a train leaving at least every half hour and in the larger stations even every fifteen minutes. We do not find that point here either. How are we supposed to interpret that? Is that a promise you're letting go of, or are you still holding on to it? The financial side of the matter is not insignificant either. What's that all about? I come to the KPIs, the performance indicators for future management. You said that additional requirements were imposed, but they are rather vaguely defined. Can you give us any further explanation? With these text proposals, you have already formulated a number of policy ideas, but additional supply will, of course, also require additional resources. In this context, I wonder why no financial framework is agreed on in the margins of these management contracts, unless you wish to remain fully within the contours of the budget. But then I wonder how you intend to finance the additional supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u58	Madam President, Mr Roggeman, the De Morgen newspaper is of course an excellent source of information. However, more detailed information on this dossier could also be consulted on the same date on the public digital platform explaining the decisions of the Council of Ministers, as well as on the website of the FPS Mobility, including the full documents in question. I can't be more open. This concerns the prior specifications of the objectives, subject matter and scope of the future concession for the public service contract for rail passenger services in Belgium, and the performance contract to be concluded between the Belgian State and Infrabel. Allow me to clarify a few things. This concerns the so-called specifications. These marks the start of the formal negotiations which will allow the federal government to conclude new ambitious contracts with SNCB and Infrabel. These specifications were approved by the Council of Ministers on my proposal. They contain the government's objectives, the main features of future contracts and the content table of the themes negotiated with both public enterprises. These specifications, approved by the Council of Ministers on Friday 2 April 2021, were drawn up to clarify the government's mobility objectives, as required by Articles 162i and 200 of the Law of 21 March 1991. They make it possible to start and direct negotiations with the two public companies with a view to concluding new contracts in accordance with Belgian and European legal requirements. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is the first time in Belgian history that such specifications were published in all transparency at the beginning of the negotiation process. This is done in full compliance with European legislation. The publication of these specifications not only informs Parliament, but also all interested and interested parties about our functioning. The negotiation process will, of course, take into account all the valuable input, including, of course, this Parliament's resolution, as well as the input of stakeholders and civil society. I therefore intend to organise a stakeholder survey with a view to negotiating future contracts. The aim is to achieve a coherent, ambitious and realistic path for rail in this country over the next ten years, both in terms of increasing supply and use of trains, quality of service and efficiency and efficiency in the use of public money. All these aspects are also related elements of the necessary modal shift. As far as your third question is concerned, the specifications do indeed set as an objective, inter alia, to increase the use of the train at any time of the day, during the week and during the weekend, to continuously improve the provision of services to passengers in the area of rail supply and to improve the quality and quantity of service. As regards your fifth question on the KPIs, I would like to refer you to the public texts for a brief overview of the approach, in particular page 5 of the texts available on the website of the FPS Mobility. The phase of negotiations that is now under way focuses on specific working groups that work in different performance domains. The aspects you raise in your question such as a train every half hour in each station service are not a promise, but an objective: the financial framework which is certainly important, the financing of the supply increases, the objectives to be included in the contracts, the critical performance indicators, etc., will be shaped and developed in detail in these working groups, so that we can conclude two very good management contracts between the federal state, the SNCB and Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, I've read the documents. They excel in vagueness. Your answer this afternoon does not reassure me. In the texts, nor in your explanatory statement here today, you clarify the future offer, not even your own promises in this respect. You do not clarify the financing of the future offer. You do not clarify the content of the KPIs. Parliament's questions are simply ignored and not addressed in the text. In difficult negotiations, the outcome of the compromise is rarely or never clearer than the starting point. When I look at what is ahead today and if this is the starting point for your negotiations, I fear the result.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u60	Minister, in June last year the Court adopted a resolution on the maintenance of investment funds for the rail link 204 between Ghent and Terneuzen. In that resolution, the proposers stated that the potential and feasibility study on line 204 should be launched as soon as possible. What is the state of play with regard to the implementation of this resolution? Has a feasibility study been launched in the meantime? Are there any intermediate results available yet? Has consultation already taken place with the Flemish Government, as requested in this resolution? What is the outcome of this consultation? Has the Dutch government already been consulted on a common vision of the cross-border rail network for goods and persons in the canal area between Ghent and Terneuzen?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u61	I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u62	I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u63	I note that Mr Briers is not here. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u64	The PUC204 is a project-related implementation contract implementing the specific project L204, as included in the Executive Cooperation Agreement between the Federal State and the Flemish Region under the SMIP 2017-2031. In the consultation organised by Infrabel and TUC RAIL on the approach and follow-up of the studies identified as a Flemish priority in the SMIP, the approach regarding the extension of the scope of line 204 as described in the Memorandum of Understanding Rail Gent-Terneuzen was also addressed. Participants in this consultation include the Flemish government, the Working Company, Infrabel, TUC RAIL and, for line 204, also North Sea Port. It was agreed that Infrabel and TUC RAIL would make a proposal for a sheet as annexed to the PUC. It will describe the scope, as well as a proposal of study timing. The scope description sheet is an essential element, after which the updated project implementation agreement can be resubmitted to the signatory parties. Indeed, given the evolution of certain projects, additional implementing cooperation agreements must be concluded in order to formalise certain changes. This is the case for the project Line 204, whose scope of the study should be adapted and where additional funding should be allocated. On 24 February 2021, the same day as the official signing of the Memorandum of Understanding, my cabinet organised a meeting with my administration, the Flemish Region, Infrabel and SNCB. The aim was to give an overview of all Flemish projects in the SMIP. During this discussion, the evolution of the various projects and the necessary cooperation agreements were discussed. On 23 March 2021 a new consultation took place between my cabinet and the cabinet of my Flemish colleague. The aim was to find a political agreement on the necessary adjustments. Some technical questions emerged in relation to the various projects. We are therefore in dialogue with Infrabel in order to obtain the necessary clarifications so that the necessary changes can be formalised in an additional implementing cooperation agreement. A similar process has started with the other Regions of our country. The new forecast and reporting on the SMIP were approved by the Infrabel Board in January, after which it was presented to the federal and regional Cabinets. Once the Additional Cooperation Agreements have been drawn up, they may be signed by stakeholders and validated in respective governments. We'll make sure this happens as soon as possible. Mr Roggeman, for your questions I refer to the answer I gave in this committee on 23 February 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I am glad that the project is getting shape, because it has been widely supported by the public and industry. It was also included in the Flemish railway priorities. The suspicion of transport demand is very high there. I am glad to hear that the investment sheets are being prepared. I look forward to the cooperation agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u66	Minister, I understand that on the day of the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding on Rail Gent-Terneuzen, you took an initiative to update the cooperation agreements. I understand that there are still chips to be made and steps taken, but can I assume that this is something for the next few months? Is this a process that will take place in the coming months, so that the declaration of intent on the Rail Gent-Terneuzen project, which has a particularly strong support base in the East-Flemish region and in the Netherlands, will have a smooth start?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u67	Minister, we have been arguing in committee for cross-border connections in general for a long time, but unfortunately we still clash too often on national borders when we travel by rail. The electrification works on the Kempense line are now in the final phase, both to Hasselt, which is still under way, and to Hamant, which should normally be completed by the end of next month. This brings the cross-border connection to Weert one step closer. With the realization of electrification, a second cross-border connection is also targeted. By transferring resources to the project Rail Gent-Terneuzen you hit two birds with one stone. I look forward to the continuation of the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u68	The Brussels-Capital Region is particularly densely populated, which means that there are a lot of considerations, ground grounded, but above all uneven grounded, in the form of tunnels and bridges. Infrabel would plan the completion of three tunnels in Ganshoren and Jette, among others, in 2021. This is based on an impact study that is already more than ten years old. What infrastructure projects does Infrabel plan in the Brussels-Capital Region for the coming years? In Sint-Agatha-Berchem, Infrabel plans the construction of a number of tunnels, but the building permits would not yet have been obtained. What's the status? Will Infrabel's outdated impact study be reviewed in the light of today's standards and situation, or will it remain the basis for the project?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u69	I apologise for the delay in answering your written question. The information requested on the works planned by Infrabel on railway crossings, bridges and tunnels is quite detailed. I'm also waiting for additional information from Infrabel. I can provide you with the requested information in writing. Infrabel is currently finalizing the project for the removal of three considerations on the line 50-60 in Jette and Ganshoren, which will be replaced by lanes under the tracks for cyclists and pedestrians. The infrastructure manager is also carrying out a project to remove the last two railway crossings in Brussels. They need to be replaced by tunnels. The procedure for issuing the licence is under consideration in urban.brussels. Pending a clear vision of the licences, work is not yet planned and resources are not yet available. Your question about the Infrabel impact study on Brussels, which may need to be revised, is not clear to me. If the impact study related to the application for a permit to consider lifting indeed dates from ten years ago, it is useful to review it in the light of the new mobility challenges in Brussels, as described in the Good Move Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u70	I thank the Minister for his reply and, of course, I look forward to the written reply with the detailed information. Do you have that information with you, or can I get it through your cabinet?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u71	My associate will send it to you by e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u72	Madam President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u73	Madam President, Mr Roggeman, Infrabel tells me to cooperate with all the stakeholders, with the Brugse seaport company as road manager and with the ICO company as the main user of the road. Between the penultimate accident at the beginning of March 2021 and the last accident mentioned in your written question, a number of measures have already been implemented. I will come back to that in a moment. The Investigation Body for Accidents and Incidents on the Track has already requested information and may initiate an investigation. On the date of the accident, no technical defects were detected by Infrabel on the road. Both the new red traffic light and the traffic lights were ignored. Each day, around 800 foreign trucks often take the route to the company ICO. Most of the time, they come from the gravel road. Before the accident in question, the port authority of Bruges placed a traffic light for the right-hand turn towards ICO. ICO itself placed a bubble tree with blue LED light at the height of the traffic light. On the terrain between the railway and the port edge on the side of the Margaretha Van Austroestraat there are many large road signs indicating the roads in the port that hinder the view of the presence of a road crossing. In addition to these signs, there are indications of the presence of a road crossing, as well as signs and poles indicating the danger to cyclists. Infrabel asks the port authority to move those large road signs. ICO uses the crossing as an entry and exit. The exit along the road is dangerous, since many other road traffic must then be given priority, with the vehicle possibly remaining on the road. ICO will ban the exit and develop another circulation plan. Infrabel will mount a black cloth behind the road lights, to obtain a better contrast and visibility of the lights, and also install a flash, which will make our signaling stand out even more. Finally, there will also be a dynamic signboard to announce the way forward from a distance. It is too early to have a clear picture of the financial impact of the accident. It is expected that the amount of EUR 5,000 will not be exceeded. In the event of an accident between a train and a road user on the way, Infrabel recovers the damage to the mandatory car insurance covering civil liability. Since 2016, Infrabel has counted 217 accidents on consideration between a train and a vehicle for which the liability of a third party was claimed. In five years' time, the loss for Infrabel amounts to about 1.5 million euros. Infrabel has so far recovered nearly EUR 1 million. The other files are still being processed. These figures reflect the state of play at the end of April 2021. These amounts do not take into account the damage suffered by SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u74	Mr De Spiegeleer tells me that his question No. 55017106C on the same subject. Can this question be linked to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u75	Mr De Spiegeleer, I think I have already said a great deal about your question. I suggest I give him the written answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u76	In the meantime, the company International Car Operators has placed a barrier itself. That is, of course, a striking precedent. That's what my question is about. The company thus assumes its responsibility for the hundreds of drivers, port workers and its staff, who use them on the road. The gate building at the Bastenaken terminal is indeed mentioned. It is close to the dangerous road, where the accident that was mentioned took place. The point of view of my question is the fact that it is quite striking that a company itself takes the initiative to get around...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u77	If you say that the approach is different, we should deal with the question separately.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u78	Otherwise, I'm gonna set them up later, but I noticed that it's about the same company and the same accident.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u79	Mr De Spiegeleer, just ask your question, the Minister will answer them now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u80	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your flexibility. ICO decided not to wait any longer and to secure the transition itself structurally. In consultation with the road manager, the port administration MBZ invests itself in a barrier. That barrier does not get on the Infrabel road itself but on a pre-sorting strip that leads the traffic from the A11 motorway to the crossing. A maneuver has been organized to bypass Infrabel. Did you know about this initiative of the company itself? Is it true that the company has knocked on Infrabel several times to take measures in the form of barriers? Was Infrabel willing to answer that question? If not, why not? If so, what was the reason why the act was not yet added to the word?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u81	Infrabel tells me that safety is always his absolute priority. Together with those involved, it tries to actively consider possible additional improvements in the port area, for example in Zeebrugge. The placing of a barrier on the pre-sorting strip was discussed at the end of March, together with the port administration and the company in question. Infrabel regularly consults with the port administration and the company about measures to increase safety in the surroundings of the crossing. Additional road lights have already been placed by Infrabel and additional measures have been taken to improve the visibility of these road lights, such as the installation of extended sun shades. In the event of such collisions, Infrabel always talks with the parties concerned, in this case MBZ and ICO, to look at the traffic situation, including the signalling. As the previous collisions always occurred with traffic off the parallel road that turned right without looking to the crossing road, classical barriers on the track instead of on the parallel road would not be a solution. There is only a short distance between the intersection with the parallel road and the crossing signage on the crossing road. As a result, the observation time for work traffic is too short. Consequently, placing barriers on the road would not guarantee fewer collisions. However, a correctly placed barrier on the pre-sorting strip of the parallel road, as has now been done, can be a very effective solution. However, this cannot be part of Infrabel's overroad signature because it was carried out on a parallel road and not on the road crossing the road. Furthermore, experience has shown that the barriers are driven off at least once a week when crossing the port with a similar traffic load. This in itself creates new dangerous situations every week, with chaos on the road as well as on the track. If a barrier, part of a signaling device, would be driven off on the relevant road, then all neighboring consider closing for long, until repair, and train traffic should run step foot. Of course, that's to be avoided. Infrabel, in consultation with ICO and the road manager MBZ, has used a red light with an arrow to the right, an active announcement board and the barrier of ICO in the short term. Infrabel will also place flashlights on the road lights so that road traffic draws particular attention to this. It is also in Infrabel's intentions to organise a new awareness campaign in the port of Zeebrugge if the corona situation allows it. Finally, Infrabel calls on everyone to always be careful around considering and always and everywhere respecting the traffic rules. I can fully endorse that call.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u82	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The mentioned place has been a sensitive location for a long time, because unfortunately there have been repeated problems there. I find it striking that the company concerned itself had to take the flight ahead for adjustments to that dangerous point. I understand, of course, that Infrabel cannot be everywhere at once for intervention or to adapt situations on the ground, but I do hope that those involved will learn lessons for the future in order to deal with potentially dangerous situations more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u83	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Indeed, it is true that the company in question had to show creativity, as Infrabel does not always seem to be creative in dealing with such matters. So the company has migrated to the parallel road to solve the problem. In the well-known cross-border issue, on which we have often shared concerns by consensus, this particular dossier is a symbolic dossier. A private company has taken its own initiative and has also incurred the costs of guaranteeing safety on the roads, as Infrabel does not succeed at all or at least in time. Surely that is a powerful signal, which I hope has come to Infrabel well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the market consultation for commercial concessions in SNCB stations is awarded on the basis of different criteria. One of them is the compensation. The candidate shall propose a fee on the basis of his business plan. That element is confidential to allow the market to play. The 42 stations where a bank machine is currently present were chosen and required to be included by SNCB. The other stations were proposed by Batopin in his bid following the market consultation. In view of the nature and value of such agreements, the Board of Directors of SNCB does not have to approve them. Mr Parent, I do not yet have the answer to your specific question concerning Batopin. You can rest it in writing or I will communicate the answer directly to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u85	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u86	Mr Minister, I can only confirm that this has already been regularly discussed in committee. We also have a sub-municipality where unfortunately there is no ATM. That creates a lot of frustration among the inhabitants. I am therefore pleased that SNCB is focusing on this story and also providing locations. I'm curious about the additional locations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u87	Minister, I welcome the role played by SNCB in doubling the supply of distributors. This is part of the response to the problem of banking desertification in the municipalities. This is good news for commuters and shops in railway stations, but also for the districts and stations concerned. The fact that localisation is the responsibility of Batopin and that public authorities are not specifically involved in the dynamics is not the responsibility of this committee; this has already been discussed in the Finance Committee and in the Economy Committee. Minister, this is not your concern, nor is it the NBSC. In any case, I welcome the positive role that the railway operator can play in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u88	I would like to explain the important file of the Arsenaalsite in Gentbrugge, a project site of almost 13 hectares with enormous potential, which the SNCB on its website calls the Thurn & Taxiswijk of Ghent. This site, where formerly the oldest Flemish railway workshop for the repairs of steam locomotives and freight wagons was located and is located in the popular area of Moscou, is for sale. Due to its strategic location in the Ghent city edge, the site could certainly become an important urban hub. The site is easily accessible by public transport. Gentbrugge railway station is a 10-minute walk away. Bus and tram almost stop at the door. The access of the site is also 150 metres from the entrance and exit of the E17 Gentbrugge. The huge area of 13 hectares is surrounded by residential and commercial areas. In collaboration with SNCB, the city of Ghent commissioned a concept study, as a vision for the future of the Arsenal site. The main lines of the study have already been approved by the city administration. According to the estimation report, the value of the site is estimated at EUR 25 million. The price was negotiable for Ghent, but SNCB did not like it and chose to sell the site per bid and proposed a price of 30.6 million euros. So there is a good chance that this huge terrain will be in the hands of private investors. Their concern will in the first place not be to build houses for the modal Gentenaar, but expensive homes that are priceless for him or her. The estimate report set the asking price at EUR 25 million. Then why does SNCB set the bid price at EUR 30.6 million? On what basis does SNCB base itself on the high asking price? Is it true that the city of Ghent wanted to buy the Arsenal site for 25 million euros in order to develop it itself according to the needs of the Gentenaars? If so, why didn't the sale take place? Is it SNCB's strategy to render its land, which is still public, and its buildings to the maximum? Or does she choose the most socially responsible way? Has SNCB received any bids for the Arsenal site? If so, how many? Why does the NBMS first cooperate with the city of Ghent for a concept study, then sell the site per bid, while the city of Ghent wanted to buy it for 25 million euros? Who made the decision to raise the price?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u89	Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u90	Mrs Vindevoghel, Mr Vandenbroucke, in reply to your questions, SNCB informs me of the following. SNCB has not received an official request or offer from the city of Ghent. If that had been the case, SNCB would not have been able to go into that. Direct action with the city would be contrary to the principles of good governance. They guarantee transparency and equality. For this reason, SNCB always launches an open call for tenders, with equal opportunities for all, on the basis of development criteria established by the municipalities, cities and regions. SNCB informs me that, as a public authority, it is obliged to make its valorisation through market consultation in accordance with the principles of equality, non-discrimination and transparency. Direct sales, including between public authorities, are therefore impossible for it on the basis of the current rules. The market consultation is widely published for four months to reach as many potential buyers as possible. As regards SNCB's strategy on the sale of land and buildings, I can tell you that it depends on the possibilities of each site and building. In any case, it always goes through public spending and the SNCB should not sell at a loss. If SNCB offers a plot of land or a building for sale, it shall contact the municipality concerned systematically to inform it of the valorisation. As regards the number of bids, SNCB indicates that all bids will be opened on the same day following the closing date of the procedure. It is therefore not possible to know the number of tenders received before the jury opens the tenders. As far as the concept study of the city of Ghent is concerned, SNCB informs me that it has worked with the city of Ghent to enable the city to determine its vision of the development of the site. SNCB has postponed the sale of the site in order to complete the draft study and to add to the purchase file to indicate in all transparency potential candidates the conditions for the development of the site. The concept study of the city of Ghent determines the residual market value of the site at 25 million euros. To know the market value, three estimates were requested by SNCB. On the basis of these estimates, SNCB has published a valuation of EUR 30.6 million as a minimum price. SNCB considers the documents of the estimate to be confidential. In order to prevent the site's emptiness and further degradation, it is necessary to use a temporary occupation of the site until the sale. Since the site requires a master plan and a new regional spatial implementation plan for development, this is also an added value for the future owner. This is how the site is kept alive until it is developed. SNCB will organise the temporary occupation in cooperation with the city of Ghent. SNCB hopes to be able to appoint an administrator after the summer. The temporary implementation should reflect, as far as possible, the future vision of the site. It could therefore be a combination of economic activity, education, community provision and culture. SNCB, through its cooperation with the city, has actively contributed to a positive future for the site within its potential. By postponing the sale procedure by SNCB, the city of Ghent has now been able to develop that vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u91	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive reply. I hear there will be a lot more conversations and the city of Ghent will be involved. I can tell you that residents from the area have also started a petition campaign in the meantime. They are very concerned that this might happen as with Tour & Taxis. For the Tour & Taxis site for 25 years, there was a citizens' initiative against buying up by real estate agencies. Those concerned citizens have partly made their move home, because a park has come. But the houses themselves have come into the hands of real estate offices, so no social housing was built. So I really hope that there will be participation and that the city of Ghent, which has developed a vision on this subject, will take account of local residents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u92	Minister, two elements are very important. Firstly, you say that SNCB is obliged to enter the market with the site. My group in the Ghent City Council and I are convinced that if the government itself owns the land, in whole or in part, it is better to direct a new district with a mix of living, working and urban functions. What about land that is sometimes sold with a view to, among other things, the construction of bike motorways? Should the market always be questioned? I really didn't know that. On the positive side, SNCB has suspended the procedure for a while in order to allow the strategic vision developed by the city to be added to the sales file. This does not, of course, give a firm guarantee that the development will take place perfectly according to the capacity and needs of the neighbourhood and the city, but it still offers an important foot between the door. I will certainly continue to follow the dossier closely, because in Ghent, not least in the neighborhood concerned, we have great expectations about the development of the site as a new district.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u93	Minister, I refer to the question that has been put. I asked a question about this before, and this dossier is very close to our heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u94	Mrs. Vindevoghel, I'm working hard on this file, just like any file. At the end of March, there was a preliminary court ruling from the Brussels appeal court. On the one hand, the Court has referred a question to the Court of Justice of the European Union for a preliminary ruling because it is unclear to the Court whether or not the demolition of the railway in question is contrary to Union law, in particular Article 15 of the Regulation on guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network. On the other hand, the Court of Appeal forbade Infrabel to dismantle the traces until the Court of Justice of the European Union gave a reply to the question referred for a preliminary ruling. So the dismantling of the tracks has been postponed, which is good news. As a federal minister for Mobility, I do not play an official role in this dossier, but as a mediator I try to get and keep the various parties around the table and to make progress. At the moment, the talks are progressing constructively. As I said in previous answers, I attach great importance to the objective of doubling the modal share of rail freight transport. To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u95	Minister, I believe that this dossier is very important in order to achieve this ambition. I hope that we will soon be able to welcome a resolution which we have tabled together with Green on the transport of goods by Schaerbeek-Vorming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u96	Madam President, Mr Arens, thank you for allowing me to also answer a question in French. It's important so I can get my breath back. It's obviously not a reproach to anyone. I don't want to say anything politically wrong. Mr Arens, as early as 2016, a framework to promote pilot projects in the field of automated vehicles was developed in collaboration with the Regions. This framework of good practice provides a series of recommendations to organisations wishing to test assisted driving technologies or automated vehicles on the public road or in other public places in Belgium. Then, in 2018, the Road Traffic Code was adapted to allow the expansion of tests with automated vehicles. My administration, in collaboration with Vias Institute and the Regions, has embarked on several initiatives of the European Union, such as Cooperative, Connected, Automated and Autonomous Mobility Single Platform – I now reply in English – in which the various aspects of automated vehicles are exposed. Given that some aspects also fall within regional competence, coordination between the Federal State and the Regions has been established. My administration, the Mobility FPS, is also active in this field at international level, at the level of the UNECE in Switzerland. In this connection, several tests of autonomous vehicles have already taken place on the public road in Belgium. It is true, Mr Arens, that UNECE Regulation No 157 laying down the requirements for the automated lane-keeping system has been adopted. This is a system that ensures that the vehicle fits properly into traffic jams without the intervention of the driver. But we are still far from a technical regulation for fully autonomous vehicles. Since the amendment of the International Convention on Road Traffic to allow countries to derogate from the obligation to have a driver is not yet in force, I do not know exactly on what legal basis the United Kingdom already relies on to allow, outside the testing framework, autonomous vehicles on the public road. But we know that the UK is very creative. In order to allow the driving of vehicles without drivers, the International Convention on Road Traffic ratified by Belgium must first be adapted. My administration is indeed co-sponsor of a proposal for an amendment to this Convention which aims to allow countries to allow the movement of vehicles without drivers on their territory, provided that their use is regulated and that technical requirements are laid down. However, this amendment will not enter into force until around 15 June 2022. Therefore, an amendment to the Highway Traffic Code cannot enter into force before that date. As with any other amendments to the Road Traffic Code, the Regions will be involved in this work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u97	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, I would have liked you to answer me in Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u98	Mr Arens, I can tell you Moien in Luxembourg. After that, I'm stuck.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u99	Minister, this question could not come on a better day because today we have received the Nightjet back from Vienna. About a year ago we adopted a resolution here for more international rail traffic. It's all coming together. It's like it had to be. One of the elements of our resolution was the call for an investigation into the substitution of air transport by rail. This study has already been ordered by FPS Mobility and I hope you will be able to give an update today. In connection with this, last week the annual report of Ombudsrail, in which they stressed the lack of a regulation on consequential damage, was noted. People who miss their flight because their train was delayed do not receive compensation by default. That is so laid down in the conditions of operation of SNCB. Ombudsrail claims that this exoneration clause is unlawful and refers to a judgment of the Court of Cassation, namely the judgment of 6 May 2014 in which it was held that the provisions on unlawful terms apply to agreements between SNCB and rail passengers. Therefore, according to Ombudsrail, Article 83 of the Code of Economic Law applies, so that SNCB may not include a clause exempting it from its liability for not performing an obligation which constitutes one of the main performances of the Agreement. In other words, is it not true that the passenger is entitled to a refund of his ticket if the train is delayed? What is the state of the investigation into the substitution of air transport by rail? What specific elements are being studied? When are the results of this study expected? How do you judge the theorem of Ombudsrail? Do you also consider that SNCB has unlawfully invoked the exoneration clause? What initiatives will you take in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u100	Mrs Buyst, as I said in my policy statement, I intend to encourage the use of the train for longer distances rather than other more polluting means of transport. The train, in particular the night train which I would like to rebuild in cooperation with foreign railway companies, can be an alternative to short-distance air traffic. This is all the more true because Belgium has invested in a high-speed network from border to border and Brussels is a natural hub on the European railway map. This must be sufficiently promoted, especially in a liberalised and commercial open sector. Through the study you are talking about, it will be possible to identify the promising connections for a modal shift to the train. This study was launched in September 2020 and is still ongoing. The aim is to explore the possibilities of replacing certain short-haul flights with international trains for traffic to and from Brussels airport, but also from regional airports. So far, an analysis has been made of the current supply and demand situation for both air and rail transport. In addition, a list has been drawn up of 15 international connections via city pairs for which an alternative rail service could replace air transport in whole or in part. In a second phase, the study will examine, on the basis of hypotheses on the evolution of supply between Belgium and other European countries, what concrete measures the different actors could take to encourage this modal shift. The final results are expected by September 2021. As regards your second question, SNCB informs me that it does not share the legal analysis of Ombudsrail. SNCB acknowledges that the Economic Law Code applies to it and is convinced that it complies with it. However, SNCB considers that the question of the railway undertaking's contractual liability to its passengers is separate from this. The subject is specifically and explicitly dealt with in the European regulation on the rights and obligations of rail passengers. SNCB is convinced that it fully complies with its obligations under this regulation and the obligations imposed on it in the management contract. In addition, SNCB is convinced that it would not be feasible to impose a systematic obligation on railway undertakings to compensate for all the damage suffered by rail passengers as a result.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u101	Thank you for your answers, Minister. It is clear that we agree that the train is a logical choice for distances less than 1,000 kilometres. In order to encourage the choice for the train, it is important to make the train easier to connect to the plane. I am therefore very pleased to hear that in the first part of the study fifteen connections have already been viewed as potentially positive in order to replace a short flight with a train. At present 64% of intercontinental flights are occupied by a passenger who took a transit flight within Europe either in advance or subsequently. Then it is quite clear that further steps can be taken there. Ombudsrail's claim that SNCB does not comply with its obligations to passengers must be considered further. We must make it as pleasant as possible for the customers to take the transfer from a train to a plane. So we also need to look at how we can accommodate their flight if, for example, their flight is delayed. In other words, I see a partner in you to look for ways in which we can make it easier to switch from the plane to the train and vice versa, so that we can work on more trains and fewer flights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u102	Madam President, Minister, the Central Station in Antwerp is a gem. It is one of the most beautiful stations in the world and has been protected since 1975. In the station the counters are still central. So the counters have a place of honor. It would therefore be a shame to move the counters. That is what we have heard. There would be a master plan coming through which the station would be classified in a different way. Our questions are therefore the following. Who owns the Central Station in Antwerp? Is it true that Infrabel has already left the rented premises in the Central Station? Why is a master plan or other plan planned in the Central Station? Can you explain the plan? How many commercial cases are already being run in the Central Station today? Can you guarantee us that SNCB's counters will not have to move in the short term or in the long term? Is it true that private investors have dropped their eye on the acquisition of the station? How do you feel about that idea?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u103	Madam President, Mrs Vindevoghel, the owner of the Central Station in Antwerp is the SNCB, who informs me that I have no intention of selling the station. That's a weird idea. As part of the further optimisation of the completion of its buildings and the departure of a large tenant in Antwerp-Central in 2021, a masterplan study is under way at SNCB. The aim of the study is to develop different scenarios, in which, on the one hand, the SNCB staff who are housed in Antwerp are housed as optimally as possible according to SNCB's vision and according to the principle of the new way of working and the possibilities of teleworking and, on the other hand, to optimise and maximise the space available with maximum respect for the important historical framework of the building. Today, SNCB counts 38 commercial matters that are being run at the Antwerp Central station. The ATMs of Belfius and BNP Paribas Fortis, pack lockers, plumbing and the temporary testing centre are included. In the context of a reorganisation of its staff, Infrabel has indeed found another location. The counters will eventually move to a more central location in the station. The sale of tickets for SNCB and De Lijn will thus be close to each other and thus the journey is also shorter for all customers, regardless of which side they come from. The move is planned in mid 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u104	Madam President, Minister, it has become clearer. If I understand correctly, the counters will move, but they will remain within the building itself. I hope it all happens in consultation with the staff. We find the current location of the counters a nice place, very accessible and well visible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u105	Mr Minister, the Dender's gabarit increase is a dossier that has been on the table for years. This increase would be an economic incentive for the region, strengthened by an ecological dimension in the context of modal shift to inland waterway transport. It is true that the part of the Dender between Dendermonde and Aalst is now navigable only by the ship type 'de Kempenaar'. That ship type can carry up to 600 tons. A gabarit increase would allow ships with a volume of up to 1,350 tons. This is therefore an unlikely increase and positive for the development of economic opportunities for the region. In the context of this dossier, it is necessary to increase the railway bridge in Oudegem along line 53. Infrabel is therefore an important if not the most important party if we want to get rid of this bottleneck. As part of the modal shift, the Flemish recovery plan will release 1.6 billion euros out of 4.3 billion euros for infrastructure works and investments in sustainable projects that deliver the modal shift. Similarly, EUR 21 million will be invested in the upgrading of the Dender. Infrabel was already willing to cooperate on the file, but the time is now ripe to get to work. Minister, how far does Infrabel's commitment to this, both in terms of initiative and even taking a leading role, as well as in terms of finance, extend? I am referring in the latter case to the possible distribution key. With which parties was Infrabel already around the table in the context of this dossier? I mean parties at Flemish level, such as the Flemish Waterweg and the Agency for Roads and Traffic (AWV), at local level with the cities of Aalst and Dendermonde, but also companies or civil society organisations such as VOKA? There are many possible partners involved that can contribute to this. What were the results of these possible consultations and are there any further consultations scheduled that have not yet taken place?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u106	Mr De Spiegeleer, as regards your first question, Infrabel tells me that this will have to be demonstrated by a preliminary investigation. After that, the respective governments will have to make the necessary budgets available. As regards your second question, I can tell you that this issue will be discussed at the regular meeting between Infrabel, the AWV and the Flemish Waterweg. There were also informal contacts with the city of Dendermonde. Infrabel has not yet received any relevant questions from companies and/or civil society organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u107	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. They're not very reassuring. I note that we are still at a stage where there is talk of willingness to cooperate, and I fear that a lot of water will still have to flow through the Dender. I also note that there have been no talks with the city of Aalst, which is an important industrial player. Anyway, that may have been up to those responsible in the city of Aalst. The Mobility Ships there are Jean-Jacques De Gucht, so I wouldn't be surprised. In any case, I hope you appreciate the importance of this dossier with regard to modal shift. To say it with Mr Arens' words: you composed sur vous. Not only the Flemish Interest Group, but the entire Dender region is counting on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u108	Madam President, Mr Vice Prime Minister, last December I asked you a question about AeroLogic's low-noise and environmentally friendly Boeing 777, run by DHL. The problem was that some of these aircraft were allowed to land at Brussels Airport, while others, exactly the same aircraft of that company, were not allowed to land here. Your answer was very clear: the files of those devices are not blocked. The aircraft can be operated at Brussels Airport, like other aircraft of other airlines, within the regulations and their sound certification. You also said that DGLV is not competent to take a decision on this matter. With that clear answer DHL started to work and in the weeks thereafter several 777 pcs of AeroLogic-DHL landed within the noise restrictions that Brussels Airport controls. In fact, there have been no incidents in this respect. Apparently, this has also stirred up the DGLV. It now appears that DGLV is nevertheless taking initiatives to look at the files of the aircraft. DHL was asked not to land the non-certified aircraft here at the moment. DGLV would also give you an opinion on this or have already delivered it. Minister, what happened between your reply of December 2020 and now, which means that DGLV is involved and apparently decided on this dossier? What technical or administrative matters are blocking these files? Do you support DHL's initiative to invest in modern, low-noise and more environmentally friendly devices? Do you also support DHL to continue its deployment at Brussels Airport?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u109	Madam President, Mr Vandenput, we have indeed already had the opportunity to discuss this issue at the committee meeting of 2 December 2020. It is not correct to say that DGLV has requested DHL to stop landing on Brussels Airpot with the aircraft concerned. There is a list of Boeing 777 aircraft allowed to land and take off at night at Brussels Airport. If DHL adheres, the company still has the opportunity to fly those aircraft. I am working on a legal framework to encourage companies to draw up a plan to replace their aircraft fleet with quieter and less polluting aircraft that emit less CO2. We can see today that some companies are farther than others in this respect. It is time for all commercial players in this sector to realise that investing in sustainable and more environmentally friendly solutions is crucial for the future of their business and of aviation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u110	Madam President, Minister, we must indeed encourage airlines to invest in the most recent devices that are environmentally friendly and low-noise. However, a regulatory framework must be put in place to allow this to happen. I do notice a difference with your response of December when you said that DGLV does not decide and that all aircraft are allowed to land. Now you say that only aircraft on that list of eight aircraft that were made up can land here and the rest can't. I'll pass it on to DHL. I think DHL should get in touch with DGLV to solve that problem. I think there really is an administrative problem, because it cannot be that a device with the same technical characteristics should not land here and another should. I will ask them to contact DGLV to resolve the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u111	In an article by Le Soir we read that SNCB is preparing a strategy to increase the capacity for bicycles on the trains. The number of passengers taking the train by bike has doubled in ten years. In the short term, therefore, SNCB wants to increase the number of places for bicycles on popular connections, such as to the coast and the Ardennes. In the coming summer more vehicles of the type Desiro and M6 double-deck vehicles will be used on the trains to the coast. These are carriages in which taking the bike is a bit easier. In the longer term, new M7 double deck carriages will have to replace more carriages that are not yet adapted to cyclists. The number of seats per train should start from 2024 from 12 to 24 bikes. The number of low-speed trains would also increase from 29 to 47 % in the same period. In addition, SNCB wants to increase the number of sites in bicycle parking facilities from 108,000 to 150,000 by 2028. The transport company also wants to enter into partnerships to develop the use of bikes in the stations. I have already advocated, through a resolution adopted in the meantime, greater accessibility for cyclists on the train. The ambitious strategy is therefore certainly a good thing. What financial resources does SNCB make available to implement the ambitious plan? There is still a lot of old equipment on the railway lines where access by bike is hardly possible. The old equipment will still not be gone by 2025. How will access for cyclists on the old train sets be improved? Does the ambition of 24 bikes per train also apply to the detachable train sets? Is there also a prioritization of stations where bicycle storage will be expanded? What is SNCB's priority strategy? Is there also any thought to increase the safety of bicycle storage? What concrete measures are being implemented in this respect? What is the status of SNCB in relation to guarded bicycle sheds? There the strategy would also be changed. The fare to take the bike on the train is flat today. Are you working with SNCB on a new, fairer pricing for the bicycle supplement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u112	Mrs Verhaert, the combination of train and bicycle is an excellent example of a healthy, sustainable and cheap method of movement. We must encourage them with real structural solutions. So everyone can really choose how they want to move. I have been working very hard on this since my arrival with SNCB. Of course, I am also satisfied with the attention that SNCB wants to give to the bicycle. The strategy in question is in preparation but has not yet been validated by the new Board of Directors of SNCB. She'll be on the agenda for the next few days. It is therefore premature to go into the content at the moment. From the moment the strategy is validated, I will, of course, inform Parliament in detail. You may be a little disappointed with my answer, but I hope you will not be disappointed with the cycling plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u113	Minister, I am indeed a little disappointed. We have to work on the modal shift, but it is striking how often passengers still travel by car to the train station, which is obviously a disadvantage for mobility in our municipalities. In our municipality we are also working on an extension of the car park and bicycle storage. Unfortunately we have 437 places and so we do not meet the requirement of 500 places for a secure bicycle storage. The reason why residents of our municipality do not choose the bike is because they cannot leave their bike safely. Also electric bikes cannot be safely left behind. So I hope that the strategy will change very quickly and there will also be secure bicycle storage in the smaller municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u114	Madam President, Minister, railway line 58 Gent-Eeklo has largely not been electrified. There is this recent famous study by TML on the dedieselization of our rail network. It concludes that the route between Eeklo and Ghent can be electrified more quickly and that this is also the most dangerous part of the entire rail network to dedieselate. There are a number of stakeholders such as the city of Ghent and North Sea Port who ask that this be done quickly. Previous parliamentary questions have shown that Infrabel would have launched a study on the upgrading of this line in 2020. I was wondering if that study had been completed by now. Does Infrabel also come to similar conclusions as TML regarding the electrification of this line? Are adaptation works now being prepared in practice? What about any similar works and upgrades on the railway line 86 De Pinte-Oudenaarde-Ronse, which is on the same route and is often understood together with railway line 58. Has there been contact with local stakeholders about possible hydrogen pilot projects in the port area? I understand North Sea Port was interested in setting up a pilot project with Infrabel and the partners. But they didn't get a clear answer about the opportunity. I hope you will be able to clarify that today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u115	Madam President, Mr Roggeman, several feasibility studies are being launched in the context of the SMEP. One concerns the upgrading of line 58 Gent-Eeklo-Maldigem. An invitation to tender has been made for this purpose and an external agency has been selected. As soon as the potential analysis of the Flemish Department of Mobility and Public Works is received, the assignment can begin. This analysis is expected in the near future. The study concerns the improvement of public transport in the region on the Ghent-Eeklo-Maldegem link. For this purpose, the infrastructure measures should be examined from two options. Whether the upgrading of the rail infrastructure of the Eeklo-Maldigem connection by the reactivation of the rail connection for a regular train service or by the construction of another high-quality public transport connection by a bus, express bus or tram bus. The study also includes the construction of the possible stops AZ Alma, Balgerhoeke, Adegem, Maldegem, as well as the electrification of the course and the abolition of the consideration. The choice for electrification will be made on line 58 because, as the study commissioned by the FOD showed, the hydrogen train in the Belgian context is not now the appropriate option. The possible implementation will be taken into account when drawing up the next multi-annual investment plan, taking into account the technical and financial feasibility, as always. This also applies to line 86. Finally, it should be noted that electrification of the above lines can only be carried out after electrification of line 122.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u116	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is, of course, a process that requires long policy preparation. I'm glad things are getting started. You say that implementation is only for the next multi-annual investment plan. Of course it remains a long story, but well, the first steps have been taken and that is already positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u117	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Raskin's 55017232C and 55017824C were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u118	Mr Minister, today there was the restart of the night train Brussels-Vienna. That is not the end of the matter, because all over Europe it is moving in the market segment of night trains for international passenger transport. Many young companies want to develop an offer of night train connections. This is quite a capital-intensive matter, because rolling stock must also be provided for. Mr Minister, has Infrabel already received lane requests for the introduction of night train connections? We know that ÖBB has been active for a long time and that all procedures have already been completed. Perhaps there are other companies who wish to join us? I was also surprised to learn that Infrabel expects it to be difficult to reserve lanes for that purpose. Can you confirm that, Minister? What's the reason for this? The financial picture is, of course, a challenge, especially for start-ups. Are there any ideas to provide subsidies for this? What is your position on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u119	Minister, every week we see the announcement of a new liaison project for night trains. In addition to the existing Brussels-Vienna link, a Brussels-Liège-Berlin and Brussels-Perpignan link, Ostend-Brussels-Berlin-Prague-Varsovie and Brussels-Pragues link are mentioned via Amsterdam, Ostend-Vienne and even more recently, Brussels-Bourg-St-Maurice in France, a project of the French government. Several challenges arise in the context of this development, which begins, if these projects are carried out, to offer a serious and ecological alternative to air transport or road transport. How can we support these initiatives, which must respond to a series of logistical challenges? How can we play a proactive role at national level to stimulate the return of night trains? Mr Minister, what support are envisaged at Belgian level with regard to traction, staff and the promotion and ticketing of the private initiatives I have mentioned? Has the subject of night trains been discussed with your colleague, Mr Djebbari, whom you recently met? Given the central role of Brussels in the development of this series of projects, are collaborations with neighbouring countries to which such links are envisaged or possible? Does Belgium intend to take the lead in coordinating this matter? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u120	Madam President, this is a very important and interesting question. I was at the South Station this morning to welcome the Nightjet to Brussels. It is a very good thing that this night train is driving again. The revival of the night trains is a topic close to my heart. I am therefore very pleased with the initiatives that have been launched in recent months. Belgium is actively participating in the Platform on International Rail Passenger Transport with a view to constructive cooperation with the various European Member States, including Spain, to develop an international train network. Efforts are being made to identify ways of achieving better conditions for international connections. As regards possible cooperation for traction on the Belgian railways, SNCB is currently engaged in discussions with various parties interested in the organisation of night trains and is examining how cooperation can be organised. Cooperation may include, for example, the provision of personnel and locomotives or participation in the distribution of tickets. With regard to Mrs Buyst's third and fourth questions, difficult competition with aviation is essentially a European problem. At this level, possible slopes are discussed in, among others, the IRP platform. In addition, my administration is currently conducting a study on the conditions for a modal shift of short-haul flights in favour of international rail links. We have talked about this before and we can base ourselves on the conclusions of that work when the time comes. I can add, Mr Parent, that exploratory discussions are under way between SNCB and the initiators of night trains such as Moonlight Express and European Sleeper. We will return to that when the time comes. During my meeting last week with my French counterpart Djebbari, we shared our common objectives and projects for better international rail links in general. In this way, with several European counterparts, we will be able to defend this priority in future meetings with the Commission, especially next week. As you know, I support the strengthening of the Brussels position on the map of international rail links. Cooperation with our neighbours and other EU Member States is progressing within the framework of the work of the international railway platform, for which a progress report is expected in June. Our country actively participates in the discussions and this work and will continue its engagement in the coming months through me or through the Mobility FPS. Mr Roggeman, Infrabel has regular contact with the new players on the market. They are also best supported by the FPS Mobility in their initiatives where necessary. Infrabel has indeed received path requests from European Sleeper, Moonlight Express and OVOE. For more specific information, please refer to the applicants themselves. Infrabel has received all the lane requests for the annual service 2022 and is now in the conception phase of the transport plan. She's looking for the best solution for all her clients. As I was able to point out on a previous occasion, the grants for this type of train link should be based on the specific economic model of these links. Different parameters should be taken into account. The strong international dimension of these rail links means that this issue should be dealt with primarily at this level. In this context, the International Rail Passenger Platform looks at funding opportunities at European level. Possible measures at Belgian level may be identified by the results of the above mentioned study, on which the FPS Mobility is working.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u121	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation. I understand from your answer that nothing has yet been knocked off about the creation of subsidy systems or the establishment of new public funding channels. I'm also a little cautious about setting it up. This can be justified to some extent when there is an effective demand for transport. It is true that the question can then be asked whether this should be taken into account in the public service. This is, of course, in a liberalised context. We see that the liberalisation of international passenger transport is starting to bear fruit, and that is very positive. That will, of course, also have to prove itself commercially. It will have to be said that these initiatives will also have to be cost-effective in their own right. In addition to the extensive funding already in place for Infrabel and SNCB today, we cannot be expected to create additional funding mechanisms for private channels that provide an offer that is not yet fully sure whether it actually meets a transport demand.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u122	Minister, I welcome the voluntarism shown by SNCB and the Mobility FPS. It is very important that these various initiatives be supported. We need night trains to meet our climate goals. Compared to the environmental weight of the air sector, it is important that there are alternatives. Belgium must also play its part. I was recently at Train World in Schaerbeek where I saw the railway history of our country. It also recalls Belgium's pioneering role in relation to European transport. With regard to night trains, it is very important that Belgium regains this leadership. I welcome the proactivity to lead to concrete measures in the coming weeks or months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u123	I also welcome the fact that you are taking steps to restart the night train circuit in Europe and I am pleased with your answer to one of my questions about a study and possibly interesting connections. I do not entirely agree with Mr Roggeman's reply, but you may not be surprised. I do not know whether we should simply work demand-driven or whether it can also be a way for passengers to make the transition from the car to the train for longer distances. I believe in that. If we can roll out that offer and offer a lot of comfort, I think travellers are inclined to make a more sustainable choice for their longer distances.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u124	Madam President, Minister, every year Ombudsrail does very useful work on contact and mediation for SNCB customers. According to the annual report, Ombudsrail delivered 71 opinions in 2020. However, 83.6 % of this was rejected by SNCB. That's striking. Ombudsrail also mediates between passengers and SNCB and in the same year they also formulated 93 reconciliation proposals. However, two thirds of them were also rejected by SNCB. I find it strange that a public authority that is open to criticism and improvement proposals and public services seems to be so little open to the Ombudsman's proposals. So I have a few questions. Minister, does SNCB really take its own ombud service seriously? How do you explain the high percentage of rejected opinions and rejected conciliation proposals? In fact, the number of opinions rejected has been increasing for six years. How do you explain that? How do you evaluate the cooperation between SNCB and Ombudsrail?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u125	Madam President, Mr Roggeman, SNCB informs me that it carefully analyses every dossier delivered by the ombudsmen. The cooperation between the ombudsdienst and SNCB is professional and respectful. There are regular contacts with a view to a constructive exchange of views on the different positions and a positive evolution of certain particular issues. The compromise phase precedes that of the opinion. If SNCB does not wish to give a favourable response to the file, its reply does not change through the successive stages of the mediation. In other words, the answer to the opinion remains the same as at the compromise stage. A large part of the opinions to which SNCB does not wish to give a favourable result have the same objective, namely to have the general transport conditions adjusted in order to introduce a legal regime which goes beyond the rules on passenger rights and also beyond the sectoral standards at European level, which are followed by all railway operators operating in the sector. On the one hand, SNCB consistently gives the same answer in this respect. Ombudsrail, on the other hand, continues to forward files of this kind. That explains the high number of cases with an adverse effect. Those dossiers represent the majority of the dossiers dealt with through reconciliation and advice. Finally, I would like to point out that the number of conciliation files has fallen in recent years, while the number of travellers has only increased because of corona. This shows that SNCB's efforts to become increasingly customer-friendly are paying off.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u126	Mr Minister, it is strange to note that SNCB continues to reject the complaints concerning transport conditions in a structural manner, while Ombudsrail continues to make the same complaints. However, they too are very well aware of the processing by SNCB. I am very curious about the position and the vision of Ombudsrail. That service does not, of course, take its task any less seriously than the SNCB itself. I don't doubt that. However, if they know that SNCB will in any case reject their complaints, just like their conciliation proposals, in which they also spend their time and energy, then I am curious to see why Ombudsrail itself is holding on to these complaints for the time being. I guess that service won't do that either, to fill its time. I am therefore very interested in his position. I will therefore connect myself with Ombudsrail in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u127	Mr Raskin is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u128	Minister, I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u129	Mr Minister, as from 2025 electric cars could be cheaper in purchase and maintenance than cars with internal combustion engines. This already predicts Test Purchase based on European data from the vehicle sector in recent years. The price of electricity, better batteries and greater production are key elements in this respect. According to Test Purchase, for smaller cars this will be the case even by 2023. More and more car manufacturers are imposing an end date for the production of cars with internal combustion engines only. Smart is already fully switched, Jaguar by 2025 and Volvo, Ford and Mini plan that by 2030. But more and more countries are also imposing a deadline. Norway bans new diesel and petrol cars from 2025, the United Kingdom and Denmark from 2030. Such a deadline can accelerate the production of electric cars and further reduce the price; it also stimulates investment in charging stations. The government has already decided to opt for a shift to electric cars in the company car category. But we also need to think about the next step to green the entire fleet. Belgium, together with ten countries in the European Union, has already taken the initiative to introduce a ban at European level. First, how do you analyse the study of Test Purchase? Do you think his prophecy will be fulfilled? Secondly, how will the discussion on a possible deadline for cars with combustion engines be conducted in the European Commission? Thirdly, if the Commission does not agree to impose the deadline by 2030, is the government prepared to take an initiative in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u130	Mrs Verhaert, firstly, the measure on parking for electric vehicles will allow better rotation of these vehicles and thus ensure a more balanced distribution of the parking spaces where loading infrastructure is available. Secondly, a draft RB is currently being prepared to amend the traffic rules. It complements the definition of parked vehicle, so that it also refers to electric vehicles whose battery is charged. As a result, the parking time limit applies to it and an electric vehicle charging is no longer considered to be a stationary vehicle. Loading electricity is not the same as loading bags. A new underboard that reserves a parking space for an electric or hybrid electric vehicle during the time necessary for charging the battery, and no longer, is also added. In addition to the possibility to limit the reserved places for electric vehicles in time, the new order board offers road managers the additional possibility to ensure more rotation in places where loading infrastructure is available. Then I come to your third question. An electric vehicle can be identified by the fuel registered for the vehicle in the Crossroads bench of the Vehicles. The police have that information at their disposal. At present, that information is also made available to the entities with which a protocol agreement has been concluded and which receive data under the general authorisation for GAS fines. The parking companies with which a protocol agreement has been concluded and which receive data under the general authorisation for parking companies shall not receive information on the fuel of the vehicle. It is intended that there will be a review so that they too will now have that information. Then I come to your fourth question. I support almost every proposal that encourages the use of electric vehicles. However, parking management and development of such systems fall within the competence of the Regions. Mrs Buyst, the study of Test Purchase is not the only one who puts 2025 first as the date when electric cars would become as affordable as conventional drive cars. BloombergNEF estimates that this will be the case between 2025 and 2027 depending on the segment. However, it seems too early to me to have certainty on this, although it can reasonably be assumed that the costs will be uniform before the end of the decade. Moreover, the total cost of ownership of certain electric vehicles or for certain purposes is already competitive with those of vehicles with an internal combustion engine. It is expected that the European Commission will address the abolition of internal combustion engine cars in the context of the review of CO2 emission standards for cars and light commercial vehicles and present the proposal in June 2021, after which the discussion will start in the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament. With that in mind, in March 2021, on behalf of Belgium, with my colleagues Khattabi, Minister for Climate Change, and Van der Straeten, Minister for Energy, I signed a call, together with eight other Member States, to ban the sale of petrol and diesel cars. In the forthcoming negotiations, I will continue to argue, together with the Minister for Climate Change, for a prohibition date to be taken into account at European level. If the Commission fails to reach an agreement on this, a solution at Belgian level could be envisaged. However, it is necessary to ensure that electrical models are available on the market and that both fast and normal charging infrastructure are developed and accessible. Account must also be taken of the free movement of goods in the common market and the legal basis for such a measure taken at national level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u131	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Technology is evolving rapidly. A few years ago, electric cars were an exception. Now it is clear that more and more manufacturers are also switching to electric cars. The need for loading posts and infrastructure is therefore crucial, but legislation can and must evolve to support this sustainable transition. I am therefore pleased to hear that there are a lot of initiatives to go along with that. It is important that we do not lag behind in this changing technology.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u132	I hear you are in favour of any initiative that encourages the use and sale of electric cars. The aim must be to reduce CO2 emissions and one of the sectors in which we need to do so is the transport sector. We need to make sure that the most sustainable choice is the most logical choice. In addition, we must continue to work on the modal shift by investing in public transport, but you are working on it every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u133	Madam President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u134	Mrs Vindevoghel, the Internet access of SNCB does not use Belnet as a supplier of internet services. As I said in my reply to Mr Roggeman on his written question No. 191, it is logical for obvious security reasons that SNCB does not publicly communicate the precise circumstances of cyber attacks that it is facing, nor the measures it is taking to protect, but they are very effective. SNCB has several sales channels: counters, vending machines, on-board sales and the digital channels web and app. In the event of a cyber attack on the digital channels, customers are asked to obtain their ticket via a different channel, according to a defined resilience plan. In the event of a general failure of all channels, which is highly unlikely, customers will be able to buy a ticket on board the train, without the surcharge for the on-board fare. Infrabel is a customer of Belnet, but has not encountered any inconvenience. As operators of essential services, Infrabel and SNCB are subject to the obligations of the Law of 7 April 2019. This law is the transposition of the European Directive on measures to ensure a common high level of security of networks and information systems in the European Union. This law imposes a number of obligations on operators of essential services, including the adoption and implementation of technical and organisational measures to secure the networks and information systems associated with the essential services of Infrabel. Skeyes is not a customer of Belnet and has not encountered any interference from the cyber attack.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u135	I thank the Minister for the answer and have no reply to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u136	Madam President, Minister, I have already asked you about the reimbursement of annual train subscriptions during the covid period. SNCB did not refund the commuters' subscriptions, which were forced to telework on the pretext that the trains were not teleworking. In fact, in general, SNCB's policy on the reimbursement of annual subscriptions is subject to numerous criticisms and recurring complaints. In this regard, the 2020 report of the rail passenger mediation service is available. As a reminder, annual subscriptions are only refunded in their entirety if the application is submitted before the start of their validity or the day of purchase and within 30 minutes of purchase at the counter or at a machine. In all other cases, the customer will be reimbursed only partially. An annual subscription loses 30% of its value from its first day of use. The more the months pass, the less the subscriber is reimbursed. From the eighth month onwards, the customer will no longer receive a euro in return. The same principle applies to quarterly subscriptions: the customer loses 40% in the first month and the SNCB does not reimburse the third month. The cancellation of an annual subscription and its repayment for no reason is possible in other countries, such as Austria. This is important when you want to make the train attractive to travellers. While these conditions of SNCB are already critical in normal times, they are all the more critical in times of pandemics. The national paralysis resulting from confinement was a reason of general interest. In the event of a pandemic and therefore of public reason, it is absolutely incomprehensible that SNCB, a public company, does not make a gesture participating in the general solidarity and does not relieve the people forced to remain confined by reimbursing their subscription. Minister, are you aware of this situation? What are you going to do, as the appropriate minister, to change these terms and conditions for the refund of subscriptions? Will you require SNCB to propose new repayment terms, at least in the event of force majeure, as is the case during a pandemic?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u137	Minister, Mr Arens has already given a perfect explanation, so I will stick to my questions. I would just like to add that SNCB is stricter in terms of repayment conditions than, for example, the TEC or STIB. I have the following questions. How many applications for refund of subscriptions do SNCB receive on average per year? Why does SNCB charge administrative costs for the termination of a subscription? Does SNCB therefore charge administrative costs when preparing a new train subscription? If so, how many? Can the partner or parent request a refund of a SNCB subscription, for example in case of death? What is your position as Minister of Mobility on these strict reimbursement conditions? Are you or the new Board of Directors of SNCB going to steer a new refund system for subscriptions? I would like to refer to the examples of the ombud service for rail passengers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u138	Mr Arens, mevrouw Vindevoghel, I hope above all that we will not have to live a pandemic again in the near future. I hope that both will admit that we have had an exceptional time and that, during this exceptional period, the SNCB continued to run the trains, which I have already stressed by thanking them. Covid has accelerated the introduction of telework in many companies. I think some elements of this telework will stay. Telework will undoubtedly continue to exist after this pandemic. It is important that SNCB adapt the offer of subscriptions to commuters to this new reality. I must note - this is something we have built together - the adaptability of SNCB, which, with the Flex subscription pilot project, meets the growing demand of many train passengers and businesses. Thanks to this flexible subscription for employees, commuters who regularly carry out telework will eventually be able to rely on even more attractive rates and, in any case, adapted to their needs. The launch of the Flex subscription, after this pilot project, will lead even more people to discover the train and use it regularly. I look forward to it. As far as the future framework for transport tickets is concerned, I confirm that on Friday, 2 April, on my proposal, the Council of Ministers launched negotiations which will allow the federal government to conclude new ambitious management contracts with SNCB and Infrabel, which will now, as you know, bear the name "public service contract" and "performance contract". After lengthy negotiations, the new contracts will be concluded by the end of 2022 and will be valid for a period of ten years. In any case, SNCB's new contract will contain obligations regarding pricing and accessibility of sales channels. In any case, the tariff formulas agreed on relate to the standard second class ticket, the home-work and home-school subscription formulas, as well as to the reduction and benefit formulas which are subject to specific rules for social reasons as well as for particular target audiences, such as young people. As you know, the previous management contracts date back to 2008 and have been extended several times, but they no longer provide a good framework for the challenges facing the railways in the future. Any changes to the terms of repayment will have to be assessed on the basis of the overall balance of these future contracts. Today, I do not have the best levers in this area. Mrs Vindevoghel, for the last four years there have been 781, 924, 1,072 and 7,520 applications for reimbursement respectively. As for your question about administrative costs, the refund of a subscription involves a lot of work, both in the front office and in the back office, and thus also costs for the NBMS. The creation of new mother cards for paper subscriptions or the creation of a MOBIB card also entail costs. These amounts are 5 euros. However, for the creation of a new subscription or for the renewal of a subscription of customers who already have a valid, personalized MOBIB card, no fees will be charged. Upon death of the holder of a subscription, a relative or the partner may request the refund of the subscription on presentation of a death certificate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u139	Minister, thank you for your very long answer, but please excuse me for pointing out that you have not answered my question. I asked you about the repayment conditions and the weakness of the refund, for example in the event of a pandemic. Do you find it normal that after a single day and almost a single use, these customers' subscription loses more than 30% of its value? The same applies to a three-month subscription; after the third month, nothing remains at all. I would therefore very much like you to act with the SNCB. This is indeed an exceptional situation, I agree with you. I hope that we will no longer experience a pandemic similar to the one we have known for a year and a half. However, honestly, there is a real problem with respect to the reimbursement of subscriptions by SNCB. In the past, I was counting on Isabelle Durant, who had followed me with regard to the transport tickets for the students. Today, therefore, I am counting on you, Minister, to ensure that SNCB changes its shoulder rifle and correctly reimburses its subscriptions. This is indeed the attractive nature of this means of transport, which, both for you and for me, is extremely important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic492x.u140	Minister, it is about what is reasonable for people and for many of them, and it is also a serious cost. If the subscription is cancelled, but the subscribed party gets only a small part refunded, then that's not minus. I would therefore like to ask that there be solutions for the many people who, for whatever reason, ask for a refund of their subscription. Those applicants are now suffering a great loss. For example, STIB and TEC are more flexible. I am also asking for a solution, because we have to do everything we can to keep people on the train and not to stop.
