ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u2	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] [[:]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on 6 January Veurne Cyriel Marchand, honorary member of the Chamber, died. He was 94. Cyriel Marchand has been active in the General Christian Trade Union since his childhood. He soon played a leading role in the Veurns department of the Christian People's Party through the General Christian Workers' Union. On January 1, 1959, Cyriel Marchand became CVP's municipal councillor at Furnes, a term he would continuously serve for no less than 42 years until December 31, 2000. From 1965 to 1976 and from 1983 to 1986, he was also alderman at Furnes and from 1968 to 1980 was a member of the provincial council of West Flanders. In May 1980 Cyriel Marchand took the step towards national politics. As a member of the CVP for the district of Veurne-Diksmuide-Oostende, he became a conscientious Member of Parliament for eleven years, and was particularly commendable in the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Health. Meanwhile, Cyriel Marchand had become mayor of Veurne. During his mayorship, from October 1986 to November 1998, he provided the city with a modern sports infrastructure and computerized public services, so that Veurne was prepared for the digital future at an early stage. In keeping with his Christian-inspired social commitment, Cyriel Marchand is also tirelessly investing in social housing. From 1970 to 2004, he was president of the Finnish Housing Society. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, with Cyriel Marchand, we are losing an honest politician, but also a gentle and dedicated man, who was always ready with advice and advice, and who was ready to be of service at any time. On behalf of the Chamber, I have expressed our sincere condolences to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u3	We have seen with great sadness the death of Mr Cyriel Marchand, former representative of the People's Party in the Federal Parliament. Mr Marchand was 94 years old and had a seat in the Chamber from 1980 to 1991 as a member of the then CVP Group. The president was just discussing the committees of which he was a member. His choice in this area was well-considered: social affairs, health and home affairs were subjects close to the people. Cyriel Marchand was also a self-made man. He didn't have university degrees, but he didn't need them either. His motto was: my school is the university of life. He was a man who liked to come among people. His commitment and drive at the service of the citizen were great. His social emotion could count as an example for many. He found the right balance between focusing on the big things and paying attention to the little things. His parliamentary work was therefore marked on the one hand by his social emotion, and on the other by his great love and hometown of Veurne, where he spent nearly forty years in local politics. The President is more than right when she calls Cyriel Marchand an innovator. He led as ships from 1965 to 1976 the merger of what is now Veurne, in good jobs. Even as mayor, he continued to prepare his city for the future. In the early 1990s, Veurne was already the precursor to ICT by using computers in the administration as one of the first cities. Also in the field of social housing, he made Veurne an example for the whole country. That suited to his great social emotion. We are particularly grateful to Mr Marchand for his decades of commitment to our country and his city. He was a reconciliationist, an innovator, a man of the people, a Christian Democrat in heart and soul. The government expresses its deepest condolences to the family and relatives of the deceased.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u4	Let's watch a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u5	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, there is no secret: if we want to avoid an English-language scenario and if much more contagious mutant strains of covid-19 do not dominate in Belgium within six weeks, we must put the turbo, and put it on vaccination in the first place. Of course, Pfizer's attitude is not correct. You have been complaining for several days because 40,000 less than expected doses were delivered while, on 18 January, when you announced that 100,000 citizens had been vaccinated, 250,000 doses out of the 350,000 delivered were stored in freezers. When are you finally going to measure the urgency of vaccination by applying the principle that a vaccine delivered must correspond to an injected vaccine, as is the case in a number of other countries? When are you going to seriously examine the ways to protect as many fragile people as possible as quickly as possible? I have the impression that from now on you accept the idea that the second dose could be injected within 42 days rather than strictly after 21 days. The government seemed to consider my proposal stupid a week ago. Today I have the feeling that things are moving, which I welcome. But, in this case, let us move forward because this way of doing so would indeed allow the faster protection of many fragile people. Using turbo also means tracking the virus in every corner: systematically and regularly performing salivary tests in schools and companies; conducting systematic tests in municipalities where clusters exist, in nursing homes or in schools; and strengthening the tracking and assistance of people who have to isolate themselves. These are strong measures which are still insufficient in Belgium. In addition, we must continue to stress the importance of barrier actions, the importance of having as few close contacts as possible. Everyone must respect these recommendations, including policies and ministers. You're not, we're not above the rules. We are in the same mess and it is together that we will win the war against this virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u6	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, after vaccination in the rest homes, this week was the turn of the hospital staff, especially those who have been on the front line for a year in the rush, the covid departments and intensive concerns. On the eve of the vaccination, however, they were told that Pfizer is adjusting deliveries, which, of course, causes great disappointment. These people are trying to get the best out of the can by using each drop to speed up vaccination. With the adjustment of deliveries, Pfizer is unfortunately destroying their hope. We shouldn't be naive, because we're talking about a commercial company here. This shows how vulnerable we are. A delay in deliveries has already been announced because the factory is being adapted and there are once again delays because the number of doses delivered is being adjusted. It can't be that a pharmaceutical company is going to ping-pong week after week with the number of doses for our country. That creates a lot of uncertainty and just that uncertainty will break people up. You are quite right to say that we cannot set a deadline for vaccinations. Something can always come up and the emergence of the variants is a good example of this. No one is to blame for that, but it does, of course, increase the challenge. We may hope that the pharmaceutical companies will not make that challenge even bigger, but that is unfortunately what Pfizer is doing at the moment. Mr Minister, first of all, Italy is considering legal action against Pfizer. Is the government investigating them, too? Secondly, if others do not accept their responsibilities, then we must do so ourselves. A ban on non-essential travel seems essential to me, even if it is not regulated at European level. I would have liked to have heard from you what we can expect in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u7	Madam President, Prime Minister, "I drove home yesterday crying with the feeling that this is no longer possible. This is unreal and incomprehensible." These are the words of Natalie Coenen, chief nurse of the COVID-19 department at the Jessa Hospital in Hasselt. She's been on the frontline against this virus for 11 months now. She heard she won't be vaccinated this week. I understand her disappointment, Prime Minister. I think we all understand it, because we can at least call that Pfizer announcement about the deliveries of vaccines this week disheartening. In the spring, we voted in this Chamber for a resolution which called for us to join the World Health Organisation patent pool. I remember my own words: cooperation as the new normal, also for pharmaceutical companies. Apparently, Pfizer is counting that financial profit again. For us today, profit is expressed in human lives, in the social profits of young people who can go back to class and meet their friends again, of mental profit from all of us if we can go back to the bar together. That companies want to maximize their profits, we know. We also know that pharmaceutical companies do that, regardless of the immense impact on the population. Because of Pfizer's practices, they set their profits directly against our social profits and fall back into those old patterns, instead of seeing cooperation as the new normal. Prime Minister, I expect a very strong signal from you against Pfizer. What will you do to make that company bear that crushing social responsibility? Will you join the train that sets Italy on course to take steps? Will you lift that to a higher European level? But also, how will you ensure that communication about vaccines does not always lead to great disappointments?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u8	Madam President, Prime Minister, after the mouth mask saga, the vaccination vaudeville. Despite all the bets of your health minister, the vaccination campaign is extremely tough. We are faced with a serious shortage of vaccines and appropriate vaccination syringes. What a mess! There are contracts for the number of doses, not for the number of vials, but both are constantly mixed up in communication. And then there's Xavier De Cuyper, in dioxin-time Deputy Cabinet Chief of then Agriculture Minister Karel Pinxten, today's FAGG Chairman, who forgot to sign his signature, causing Belgium to miss 2.5 million vaccines. The vaccinations in the Flemish hospitals were not yet well started, or they had to be stopped. It's hallucinating. Margot Cloet, the top woman of Zorgnet-Icuro. She said, clearly emotionally: "I wonder how the ministers will be explaining this to the people who have been on the front line for almost a year. This really shows very little respect, you feel the anger so increasing." Meanwhile, the government is trying to imagine the results of its vaccination campaign even more rosy than they really are. After all, we are not at 1.38 % as Sciensano suggests, but at the even lower 1.1 % if the total population is taken into account and not just the total number of adults, as the government does. You have experience with creative counts. Last year, the Belgian Government also adjusted the count of the number of coronados, in an attempt to enhance its image. I wouldn't be surprised if you would count differently in the forthcoming election result if you didn't like it. Prime Minister, first of all, how will you rectify the situation? Secondly, is your liberal hug contact from the FAGG being called on for his forgotten signature? Thirdly, will you from now on, as Zorgnet-Icuro asks, communicate more carefully and realistically, rather than on the basis of promises?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u9	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, last week, like many here, we were delighted to discover that it was possible to use not 5 but 6 doses of vaccine per vial delivered by Pfizer. This was a discovery that increased the number of vaccines delivered to Belgium by 20%, contributing to the welcome acceleration of vaccination of healthcare workers. And yesterday, patatras, the daily Le Soir reveals that Belgium was going to see itself punished by the company. Colleagues, it was too simple. Pfizer charges us doses and not bottles. As a result, Pfizer reduces the number of vials attributed to our country. As a result, the supply of vaccines to our country is affected and our calendar is slowed down, even as we are in the middle of a race against the clock against the different forms of variants. Are you going to let this scandal go because, honestly, I can't find another word? Like you, Prime Minister, I feel liberal on the human level, on the level of freedoms, on the economic level. I believe in a market economy. But how can we condone such behaviors that are like financial predation and which, in my opinion, will eventually dig the tomb of capitalism? How can we tolerate such predation and selfish behaviour in times of pandemics, when, as you have reminded us in this House, vaccines are being developed in part through research and public funds? How is it possible for the market to take precedence over public health at this point? My questions are dramatically simple. Was the government aware of the contractual terms of delivery per dose and not per vial, at the time when it was decided to use six doses instead of five and thus adapt its vaccination plan? If so, have we not taken a risk here with the vaccination strategy? Do you hear, as Italy does, react with Pfizer and fight for our country to retain the number of vials, not doses, initially planned? Finally, I am bouncing on the debate we have already had here on the confidentiality clauses. Would it not be high time to share the contractual clauses between our country and the companies manufacturing vaccines? It seems to me that today it is a real democratic necessity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u10	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, in West Flanders, a number of residential care centres have been closed to the people in the last week. In my congregation yesterday I had to close four rest houses. These are 353 elderly people who are to be re-incarcerated after six months in the next month. Minister, the reason is simple. The only reason is that there were no vaccines enough to administer to those elderly, let alone to the care staff. We're ready now. I repeat, there are not even enough vaccines to give to the elderly. We must also read in the newspaper that between 130,000 and 185,000 vaccines are stored in the freezer. We must learn that you almost forgot to order 2.5 million extra vaccines from Pfizer. We must even read that 8 million injection needles have not been ordered. The worst thing of all is that I am involved as a local mandatarian in finding that the vaccination centres are motivated by political motives rather than to serve the population. Mr. Secretary, that hurts. I will talk about Pfizer later, but that will be the reply for my minute. Pfizer vaccines are produced in our country. The needles are produced in our country. So, Minister, explain why we are last in Europe for vaccination. There are 5,700 vaccinations a day. In Israel, 177 000 vaccinations per day are involved. By the time we start, whether in mid-February or 1 March, 15 million vaccines will have been administered in Britain. Minister, I only have one question. When are we finally turning over the last page of the blunder book?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u11	Mr Prime Minister, Minister, at the beginning of this year we started the vaccination campaign, first in the residential care centres. The intention was to start soon with the staff in the hospitals. In fact, we cannot deny that the course has so far been quite bumpy with deliveries of vaccines that would come sooner and then not. These kinds of setbacks, hopefully, there will also be windfalls in the coming months. Let's take a look back. One year later, the vaccines were developed, tested, placed on the market and distributed. It's been a hell of a job. At the moment vaccination centers are sprouting all over our country. We must not forget that the start-up of these vaccination centres is very rapid and that the efforts of many people are enormous. Despite these strubblings and course the route we still see a light point at the end of the tunnel. If we stick to all the preventive measures for a few months, so that we can control the level of contamination, we will finally get out of this crisis. I'm very hopeful about that. It's international hug day today. It'll be a hug-free day for a lot of people. A lot of people get impatient. That's perfectly right. That is why it is important that the government communicates very clearly but also fairly. If certain people are promised that they will be vaccinated, I hope that they will actually do so in the future and that we will not be confronted with such matters anymore. I would have liked to hear from you how the government will adapt its communication, so that in the future it will be clear to people when they are next and they will not get false promises. My next question is about the timing for the volunteers. Many volunteers want to work in the vaccination centres in the coming months. Will they also be a priority for vaccination?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u12	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, this government has something to do with figures, but not in the good sense of the word. During the first corona wave, the phrase "We count differently" was constantly used to hide the fact that our country did much worse about the number of coronados than most of the world, but apparently we don't only count our dead differently, we also count our vaccinees differently from other countries. Should we count our vaccinees like the other countries, it would soon appear that we count a quarter less vaccinees per 100 inhabitants than we now make appear. And as if all that weren't enough, apparently the federal level is different from the regional level. According to the Flemish Agency for Health and Health there were about 31,500 vaccinees last Wednesday, while the Federal Coronac says there are only 15,093. Prime Minister, Minister, it is a mystery to me that your well-known clear and uniform communication is going to. I would therefore like you to give me that promise of clear and uniform communication on the promised clear coronateller. In the meantime, have you been in contact with your regional colleagues and what steps have you taken to obtain that corona counter? Why is it not possible to work on the basis of the same data and to communicate the same figures to the population on this basis? How hard can that be?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u13	Madam President, Ministers, it is quite a lot, the covid vaccine saga. I remember announcing it here. You were angry at the time. Today I'm a little pissed off. On 7 January I asked in this plenary about the proportionality of delivery, the quantities and timing. At that time, you did not answer me, neither. You were trying to solve a wretched mess. You forgot to sign a delivery order. In the following week, I specifically asked in committee: what about the proportionality of delivery in terms of time and quantity? There was no answer to that either. You didn't mention your flattering. Do you really think that people at home and in Parliament should not be aware of such an important information? I'll ask you again today. I would very much like a specific answer. What happened? How did you supposedly fix it? And how can you indicate to me that there will be no difference as to proportionality, time and quantity? Who do you think is responsible for this deception? Can you explain that to me exactly? As far as proportionality is concerned, I have asked you a few times how the Netherlands has received more doses per inhabitant in the first three weeks of the vaccination strategy? Finally, there is another problem this week: does one take five doses or six doses out of a vial? You found out this week that you bought doses instead of vials. However, you had included a sixth dose in your accelerated vaccination strategy. I don't hear that from other countries. Was it an error of assessment? Or was it naivety?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u14	Minister, did you read the disappointment on the nurse's face when she finally found out that she will not receive a vaccine this week? Have you seen the disappointment? Our heroes of care, after months in the front line, would finally get their shot, but then this happens. That is, on the one hand, because of Big Pharma's hunger for profit and, on the other hand, because of the government's wrangling. A while ago we learned that six instead of five doses could be removed from a vial of the Pfizer vaccine, which was announced as good news. Mr De Croo, you called that a game changer. Mr Vandenbroucke, you said that the realm of freedom had accelerated. However, this was not included in the profit appetite of Pfizer's shareholders. They have reread the contract, especially the fine print. This shows that we bought doses, not vials or bottles. In the coming years, thanks to the vaccine, shareholders will receive some EUR 30 billion, but why not add 20%? That's what they went for. Gentlemen, I wonder if you haven't read that contract. How come you didn't know that? Now it appears that we can get six doses instead of five from the same Pfizer vial, do you think it is normal for Pfizer to decide to deliver fewer vials and therefore to make more profit? I don't think that's normal. I think Pfizer should deliver the quantities of vials contained in the contract. That company owes us that much. Mr Vandenbroucke, I have not been able to speak to you very often in recent days, but you are reacting with words like 'it is just like that'. I'm sorry, but actually that's not common at all, it's not normal, it's pharmaceutical banditism. Minister, will you demand that the number of bottles promised be delivered effectively? Are you, like Italy, considering taking legal action?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u15	Prime Minister, you have the floor for five minutes. Mr Vandenbroucke, you will then have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u16	Colleagues, over the past few weeks there has been a lot of information about the vaccination. Sometimes there was positive news, sometimes less positive news. I will answer the questions on vaccination together with the Minister for Health, who will answer in more detail a number of questions about the figures. I must be clear: the communication between producers and the Member States is via the European Commission, which then communicates the information to the authorities in the different Member States. With us, that's about the FAGG. The first message I would like to give is that we must avoid dramatisation and panic-mongering. Yes, some producers have announced that they will deliver much less, but they have also indicated why this is necessary. This is necessary because the quantities that will be produced in the coming months and the rest of the year will be significantly higher. Initially Pfizer talked about 300 million doses, now it's about 600 million doses in 2021. That's a significant increase. In the meantime, you have no doubt understood that the production of a vaccine is a particularly complex process. To scale that production up to double, one doesn't just do it without having any impact. If we know how necessary cooperation between the private sector and the public authorities is in the coming months to bring that marathon to a successful conclusion, the last thing we need to do now is to stand against each other with drawn knives. Yeah, it makes sense for a government to want clarity. It is logical that, if there is insufficient transparency, we demand transparency, but we will only get out of this if we work together and see how we can make the process as efficient as possible. I am not convinced that the start of a legal battle today would be the solution, which would make everything much easier. There must be transparency and clarity, there must be accountability from one to the other, but I am not convinced that the solution is to stand against each other now with drawn knives. Indeed, I hear a lot of people talking about speed: things have to happen faster! But I've also heard of caution. I give you an example that illustrates the value of prudence. When you inject a first dose of vaccine to a person, you know that between the third and sixth weeks, you will have to give it the second dose. To be careful is to keep a certain safety stock to be sure that this person, who was lucky enough to be vaccinated for the first time, is certain to benefit from the second dose of vaccine within the specified time frame. He should not be told that there are changes in production and that there is a shortage of stocks. Yes, in Belgium, the Regions have chosen prudence to guarantee the second stage of vaccination. However, as I have said many times, it is not because we are careful and careful that we cannot be quick either. We have talked very often with the Länder about how the federal government and the Länder can better coordinate matters so that vaccination can be carried out sufficiently quickly. There have been questions about the epidemiological situation and the forthcoming Consultation Committee, one of which on the agenda is the analysis of the situation. Some of the speakers spoke about the figures. I would like to draw attention to one figure, namely the epidemiological situation we have been in for weeks. According to the latest ECDC figures, two countries are epidemiologically better off than we are, namely Bulgaria and Finland. Belgium is an international hub, but we have been able to keep the numbers so low for weeks. That is the merit of all of us. The rules are clear and stable, which also ensures that the conditions in which we organise our lives and organise the distribution of vaccines are stable. It is clear that travel and certainly leisure travel represent a certain risk. That is why I will defend Belgium's point of view at this evening's European Council. I have also consulted with other countries and I see that more and more of them are in our direction. I will plead, not for the closure of borders because cross-border traffic must continue, but for the need to distinguish between essential and non-essential tourism. We have asked the people at Christmas with urgency but very kindly not to travel. Very many have kept to it, but 160,000 others have not. We have noticed in recent weeks that people who travel bring the virus in their luggage here and we can no longer take that risk. We will do everything we can to maintain the favourable position we find ourselves in. I've come to travel internationally. If we in the Consultative Committee come to the conclusion that travel with a tourist purpose is temporarily stopped, then I would like to draw attention to what is happening in our country. If we ban travel, that doesn't mean we can rest on our laurels when following the rules here. For example, it will be an absolute priority to continue to respect the rules on teleworking. After all, we know that there are infections in the professional and private environment. Respecting the rules to get in touch as little as possible remains the best defense against any variant of the virus. Minister Dermagne has greatly increased the controls over the past few weeks and more than 1,200 companies have been audited. The vast majority followed the rules. Colleagues, these are turbulent times and new elements emerge every week. Every week there are problems that need to be solved. However, we will not solve it by standing against each other with drawn knives or by blowing up certain facts and creating panic. We get out of here by working together, staying calm and seeing how we can solve the problems. I assume that this is also the institution in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u17	Madam President, I will begin with the facts to end with a story of hope, and then very understandable disappointment and frustration, which must once again be a story of hope. First of all, the facts. Belgium doesn't miss a single vaccine. In December, the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products (FAGG) did not make it known quickly enough in the European meetings that we wished to register on an additional disc from Pfizer. That was a mistake. This will be evaluated and not without effect. We also announced, at the end of December, that we wanted to participate fully on the European train. We also succeeded in these negotiations. That was completely normal. Mrs Depoorter, when you asked me on 7 January whether Belgium would get its fair share, I replied in the affirmative. We do not miss a single vaccine, not the amount and not the speed. I told you on 7 January that was our commitment and I kept saying that. What does that mean? In the hospitals that are the hubs for distribution, 285,775 doses have so far been received. Some of it's already gone. Since the beginning of this week there is an additional delivery of 86,580 doses. It's likely to have arrived to a large extent. Together it means that what has become available to date, including what is on its way from Pfizer to the hubs, is 372.355 doses. Last night, according to the official count, which you can follow on the website of Sciensano, more than 142,000 people have been registered as vaccinated. You will argue that there are still a lot of doses in the freezer. That's right. We have also started very carefully. The task force explains to us, in my opinion, correctly, that there is about no dead stock anymore. There are no more doses in the freezer that are not programmed to be delivered. You will notice that there is a huge program in the freezer. That's right, of course, because we'll start with the second shot next week. Next week, the actual pricking of people has to accelerate enormously, because we have to put the second shot. So we are in a situation where, according to the task force, there is about no dead stock at our request, which is an important fact. With regard to the number of vaccinees, we are all in the European platoon. You can check that out. This means, indeed, that if there is a change in deliveries, because of caution and because there is almost no dead stock, we must immediately look at what is being programmed. We asked the task force to be flexible and agile. Colleagues, it's two things one. You have to choose what you want. It's two things one. Either you say, with us, no dead stock, vaccinate what is due and available, so there will always be uncertainties in the program. That depends on the deliveries. We will not then be able to indicate with great certainty in advance who exactly when will be vaccinated. That's the first position. The second position is that you drop that and say that we need to record weeks and months in advance when people are vaccinated. In that case, we will build a large dead stock and then we will get tons of criticism from you. You need to know what you want. If we say flexible, agile, not dead stock, then the programming must be constantly reviewed. Where's the frustration with us, too? The frustration is that Pfizer's communication has indeed been very difficult, so even a limited change gives rise to revisions and much frustration and disappointment in a number of hospitals. That is perfectly understandable. You quoted me from the committee meeting on 8 January, namely that freedom is in sight. I'll stick with that. That's right. Look at the programme we presented then, and that is the last time I have officially communicated anything about it. The hospital staff were vaccinated in that program at the end of January and everyone thought that was very good. We have also said 'vaccine, vaccinate, vaccinate' and the task force and colleagues in the Communities and the Regions have done so. They have speeded up and now they have to slow down a bit, but yet the hospital staff are already being vaccinated and there is frustration among the staff in those few hospitals, who have not received what it expected this week. That is very regrettable and hard, but these are the facts and I would like to see people stick to the facts. You were talking about Italy. In fact, Italy is considering a legal procedure because it is unable to put the second injection. That won't be our situation. The number of doses in the vials is legally inadmissible. Unfortunately, this has been knocked off in the package leaflet by the European Medicines Agency. You may regret that, but whatever we think about it, there is no legal procedure. You're right about the needles and the syringes, Mrs. Depoorter. You know it well. I said in committee in all transparency that we had a problem. Of course I had to say that. I've said it. I didn't hesitate. In the meantime, we have placed an additional order of 6 million by the beginning of February, closing the gap. If we get those deliveries, we will have no problem with needles and syringes. The volunteers, Mr De Caluwe, are programmed for the residential care centers. As far as the other collective bodies are concerned, I cannot say anything today because the task force has not yet taken a decision on this matter. I decide. We're vaccinating. We have come at speed, and because we have come at speed, we are also sensitive to the speed of delivery. You need to know what criticism you want to express. You may criticize the fact that there is unpredictability because we do not want a dead stock. Or you may criticise the fact that we do not want dead stock and therefore there is unpredictability. You really need to know what criticism you want to express. In the meantime, is it a difficult story for the people on the premises? Oh, yes, I do. Is it sad? Yes, it is sad for those who expected the liberation to be for today and yet have to wait. Yeah, that's bad. But we will do this together. That is our commitment, in very good and close cooperation with colleagues in the Länder. In the meantime, we will also protect our country from the import of viruses from abroad. That's our goddamn duty to our own residents who follow the rules and the measures. We shall indeed do so, Mrs Depraetere. You can count on us for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u18	Prime Minister, Minister, allow me first of all a small point on travel. You always talk about carnival leave. However, students in higher education complete their session. As a result, they will be on leave this Friday. For this reason, I would like to encourage you to clarify your message on travel, particularly for these students. Why am I shaking so much by asking you to put the turbo on the vaccination? The reason is this: no, Minister, we are not in the European lead. Belgium is able to do much better. Many other countries are vaccinating much faster, yet they have the same amounts of vaccine as we do. And then, it's vaccination that will allow us to protect the most fragile people before mutant viruses take over. Vaccination is obviously equivalent to saving lives. Similarly, this action will provide clear opportunities for youth and seniors to debunk. That must remain our common goal. I hope, therefore, that the lines will move in this area!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr De Roover is quite right to make a comment about the conduct of talks. I'm hearing at least two calls right now. I'm asking for a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u20	Prime Minister, Minister, it is true that we do not need to panic today, because at the end of the journey, if production is increased, it may not make such a big difference. However, we must also understand the disappointment that lives. I too have heard it clearly. We, and certainly patients at risk and health workers and other sectors that have been on the front line for months, all hope that it will be even faster. Even if it happens as quickly as possible, the hope of a greater speed will always exist. In this respect, I think we should expect a little humanity from the big pharmaceutical companies that are clearly making a profit. A little humanity is the least we can expect. Prime Minister, you say that we are certainly not doing badly in comparison with other countries, which is certainly true, but for the people who are on the front line, it has of course been going on for a very long time. Fortunately, we took some measures in the autumn, but that too was a few months ago. We're actually asking a lot of questions. I therefore welcome the clear response to my call for some clear measures to be taken on non-essential travel. I hope that it will not end with a plea this evening, but that it will be carried out as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u21	Prime Minister, you say that there is no point in facing each other with drawn swords. You are in favour of constructive cooperation, accountable to each other. However, we now have the feeling that Pfizer will not give it to us. I think we can expect to get the doses we ordered. Pfizer enjoys a tax favor regime and has already received billions of euros from the European Union for research. Prime Minister, I believe that you can be friendly and I expect communication to go through Europe and to prepare a European response with your fellow Members this evening. I believe you if you say you have to slow down for now and then speed up. The clock is ticking however. Currently, 48 deaths a day are still reported, still far too much. Just because we have switched so quickly in this crisis, we are well on the current point. I fully understand that the most recent reports are discouraging. We need more hopeful messages.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u22	Prime Minister, you are making a habit of not answering my questions. Contrary to Minister Vandenbroucke, who admitted the FAGG error, I did not hear you say a word about the fallout, which means that we missed an order of 2.5 million vaccines. I didn't get an answer to my question about responsibility. You say you're happy with the epidemiological figures. You may be very grateful to the people for that. Unfortunately, the number of coronadods and the number of vaccinees is much less cause for joy: 1.1 % vaccinees, more than three weeks after Jos from Puurs first received his vaccination, which is a very sad result. I'm not reassured about improvement. I wonder what the next step will be, because every week there will be a bunch of flatters. I hope that, following the call for everyone to sew their mouth masks, we will not get a call to craft their own syringe and bring it to the vaccination centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u23	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. Prime Minister, in general, I admire your flair and calmness. But lately, I'm worried about your calmness. Last week, when it comes to travel, we had the same conversation. You explained that "advising travel" was still a clear message and I replied that in my opinion it was not going to be. Since then, you've been evolving on this issue, but it's been seven days and we know that in seven days, this virus is causing a lot of damage. As for the doses that go from five to six, without any real reaction, despite Pfizer putting us in front of the fait accompli, I do not ask that we go to justice. There were lots of other things to do. Mrs. von der Leyen, in front of the reduction problem, took her phone to call Pfizer's CEO. I find that we are facing a state of affairs of a private company that does not take into account its societal responsibility, which would at least deserve a little more indignation on your part.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u24	Prime Minister, you are gradually becoming the Comical Ali of the Corona War. Every week you say that Belgium is the best in the classroom and that we are at one of the best places in Europe. However, we are world champions in the number of coronados per population, including the excess mortality. We are world champions, with that policy you've been involved in for about 11 months. Minister Vandenbroucke, you say dead stock wouldn't be necessary. It is your virologists, epidemiologists and the task force who said a few weeks ago that there would be no need to save vaccines for the second vaccination, as the supplies provided by Pfizer would be sufficient for the second vaccination. However, that was not my question. I asked why there is still no first vaccination in certain retirement homes. In fact, I think it is totally wrong that you should point to the producer to mask his own incompetence. You do, because there are 185,000 doses in the freezer, while people die every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u25	Prime Minister, Minister, I remember a number of things from your two messages. First of all, you pointed out that the government must cooperate with the private sector. That also paid off, because who would have dared to think that we would be vaccinations today six months ago? I remember the statements that this might not be possible before March 2021. So we're in favour of the schedule. Secondly, it is right that there should be a certain degree of caution and that a stock should be kept in order to be able to carry out the second vaccination. You quoted the example of Italy, which has a higher vaccination rate than Belgium, but which now has problems with the second vaccination. Thirdly, we must stop panicking. It's confusing the population. A lot of numbers are not good, but other figures are good. The epidemiological situation in our country is positive. Also in the area of vaccinations, because we are being tricked with figures here, Mr Minister, we are in the peloton of Europe with a figure of 1.09 %, as you said. Countries such as the Netherlands have awarded 0.58% of the population a first vaccine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u26	Prime Minister, Minister, I do not know if you are both a fan of the Planckaert family, but your answer reminded me of a statement from them: 'We are doing well, even if they say not.' In short, that was your answer. Whether that was a clear and unambiguous answer is another question. However, that form of unambiguous, simple and very straight forward answers is one of your government's stickhorses. I remember, for example, that some members of this majority, not least in the Green Group, the former Minister of Health, dear colleague De Block, took rather heavy fire and accused her that her information and communication would have been incomplete and sometimes even incorrect. This government is sick in the same bed, let's face it. What we see now is no longer a matter of counting differently or calculating a little differently, it's just magic with numbers. Magic with figures to hide reality, magic with figures to hide the truth a little bit and, above all, magic with figures to hide that you are failing in tackling this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u27	Gentlemen, you are forgetting something essential in your discourse, in your good news: any vaccine that is not there can cost a life, may cost several lives. The counter's at 20,000. You have not given me any facts about the 60,000 vaccines that the Netherlands has received in the first three weeks. You have not been able to rebut that there was no difference in delivery time. You only give half the answers. Your flatterer dismisses you as a failure diverse: it is not so important. Not only do you forget to read a contract, but you also forget to sign it. Imagine that! Where is your respect for the people of care? They didn't have mouth masks in March. Then you forgot to mention they were gone. Today you forget to sign a contract that is vital for all those people who are waiting for the vaccine, who want to move forward and who want to return to the realm of freedom, as you advocate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u28	Minister, you are talking about speeding up and slowing down, but you did tell the nurses that they would get their shot this week. However, that has not happened and I think you underestimate the disappointment on the ground. You referred to the opposition, but we did not draw up the planning, you did. You said that we have to take our criticism and I will be very clear here, I am suing Big Pharma's profit appetite and the fact that we are the toy of their deliveries. You say it's what, you're being cheated, but we certainly shouldn't be facing each other with drawn knives. It even goes so far that you keep one in the freezer for each dose injected. Are you not at all sure about the next deliveries? That's unbelievable. We need to ask ourselves about the importance of health and that of profit in this society. Is it normal for us to depend on these firms to get out of the pandemic, not just here, but all over the world? Shouldn't we be asking ourselves about Big Pharma's patent laws and pricing? That is the real debate we have to have here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u29	Madam President, Minister, the Internet revolution and digitization have given rise to a multitude of activities and new professions. Digital platforms are intermediaries that connect, via digital tools (telephone, tablet, computer) and through the Internet, providers and users. In 2018, there were 33 approved platforms in Belgium. In 2020, there were 68, an increase of 200 per cent. Their extremely rapid development seems to have taken somewhat short notice of the legislator. The precariousness awaits these false independent collaborators in two ways. They have low incomes and low social protection. Moreover, this status is a source of unfair competition and social dumping in the sectors concerned. The programme law of 1 July 2016 on the collaborative economy only partially addresses the issue of status. It does not in any way ensure respect for working conditions and the use of false self-employed persons. Some digital platforms are defined only as intermediaries and not as employers. A Uber driver is not a self-employed worker according to the Social Security FPS. The working conditions and rules imposed by Uber are incompatible with the qualification of an independent employment relationship, the Administrative Commission for the Settlement of the Labour Relations of the SPF Social Security, in a recent opinion. Minister, what initiatives do you intend to take into account the opinion of the SPF Social Security and give workers platforms a status with a qualification consistent with the employment relationship?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u30	Mr President, thank you for your question. As you know, the government has decided to give these workers special attention to what is known as the platform economy, in order to be able to offer them and guarantee them good working conditions and better social protection. For me, this is not an accessory but an essential question. I think we cannot cross these workers on our roads or at our doorstep every day by closing our eyes to the precariousness that is theirs. Their work and income are precarious. Nor can we ignore the unfair competition that this form of work brings to our businesses, entrepreneurs and self-employed, and you have mentioned it. As you also said, the Administrative Commission for the Settlement of the Labour Relations (CRT) concluded that this employment relationship was incompatible with qualification and self-employment. The result is that the worker must have a genuine contract of employment. This decision is in line with the decision already made by the Commission in 2018, which, as you know, has been appealed. This appeal, for the time being, has not yet been finally decided and is still pending. I think, as you mentioned, that this particular case and the decision taken reinforce the need to evolve and adapt the law on labour relations in order to better combat these phenomena of false self-employment, which are both a source of precariousness and a source of unfair competition for our real self-employed and for our companies. I will therefore shortly submit to the Central Economic Council certain proposals and this question, so that the social partners can make concrete proposals on this subject. I am also particularly attentive to what is happening abroad and it will not have escaped you that in California itself, homeland and cradle of this new form of economy, a law has recently been ratified to give an employee status to drivers of the platform economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answer. Uber demonstrates the extent to which we are confronted with unbridled capitalism, which does not refuse any of the possible exploitations of the workers. It is therefore important to legislate. If one is recognized as independent - i.e. one is not bound by a subordination bond - one sets one's own remuneration, one can work without being subject to the management of a company and one can carry out other activities in the same sector. In the absence of this status, it must be considered as an employed person, with all the conditions of work and wages associated with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u32	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is incomprehension and anger. It's really with the belly ball that I'm thinking today about these workers at FedEx who, tomorrow, will see their jobs removed, who will see 700 of their colleagues find themselves unemployed. That is unacceptable, Minister! The freight sector is one of the few sectors today that has not been nailed by the covid. It's a growing sector. How do you want to explain today to these women and men what is happening to them in Liège with an airport that has not stopped touring? Do I have to point out here, ladies and gentlemen, that Liège airport was the European hub for the arrival of masks? Should I remind you of the explosion of online commerce? FedEx, this American giant who, boosted by the increase in freight transport during confinement, made exceptional profits, 1.28 billion euros, and who, to become even larger, integrated TNT, today, violently and cynically decides to remove 7,000 jobs in Europe and 700 jobs at home in Liège. And icing on the cake, for those who remain, they are told that they can either accept flexibility or work part-time. Minister, this morning I was also in Liège. I really think that here we have to react and be on the side of the workers. This disaster scenario must be prevented. With the Walloon government, you reacted immediately. You met the workers and the management was summoned. Minister, my questions are simple. What's the status of these contacts? What is the future of FedEx workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u33	Madam President, Minister, we have just said: FedEx: 660 jobs, Solvay: 110 jobs, Bosch: 400 jobs, AGC Glass Europe: 50 jobs, L'Oréal: 125 jobs, Duvivier: 32 jobs. In one week, it is the announced loss of more than 1000 jobs. Of course, it is first and foremost the drama that is taking place for each of these workers and for their families. The situation is very difficult, as we know, in the context of the health crisis for businesses, for very many independents as well. But let me still focus on FedEx's announcement; because this announcement is surprising. A priori, this sector is not affected, or seems not affected, by the health crisis. It is therefore, it seems to me, first and foremost a matter of a relocation of activities to Paris. Minister, in the face of this terrible announcement for the workers concerned, what actions do you intend to take to save as many jobs as possible? The aim is first of all to try to find a plan B and to save those jobs. Clearly, workers and their representatives were not informed upstream. I find it justified, therefore, to send a social conciliator. Are you going to make that decision? Finally, have you contacted the French government, which, as a reminder, is the majority shareholder of Paris airports? So they "draped" FedEx to organize a relocation between neighbouring countries. Have you made this contact with the French government? What is his answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u34	Minister, I am angry that a multinational such as TNT-FedEX, which earns €1.28 billion in profits per quarter - per quarter! - decided to dismiss 671 workers in Liège and to review 861 contracts. We're talking about workers who continued to work during this covid crisis - and working in freight, it's not funny! This means having to go into the aircraft compartments, crawling with the knees on the ground to look for packages of more than 30 kilos. This is the job that all these workers continued to do during this crisis! Flexibility means starting to work every day at 10:00 p.m. or midnight until 6:00 p.m., to meet his children at 6:30 p.m., as TNT's workers explained to me! Who in this room is in such a situation? No one! No one! And these workers are going to be thrown in the trash by a multinational beneficiary? It's really outrageous! And this is because this European Union of capital and competition is so illustrated. So what did Mr. Macron promise to "Mr. FedEx"? What did he promise these multinationals? The competition on whose behalf we steal jobs. Minister, I expect a reaction from you. For the past ten years, the PTB has been conducting a campaign to ban multinationals that benefit from the dismissal. In 2016, the PS introduced a similar bill - just before the election campaign. I ask you, minister, are you going to keep these electoral promises? Will you, as Minister of Employment, prohibit multinationals with huge profits from dismissing 671 workers? My question is simple. I hope that your answer will be positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to express my sincere support for FedEx's workers in Liège and Zaventem, their families and all the workers in FedEx's subcontracting companies who could also suffer the shock of this surprising and catastrophic announcement. The announcement of the FedEx company surprised everyone to start with the workers who, as has been mentioned, did not count their hours, did not refuse the flexibility or overtime in this crisis of the coronavirus which saw companies such as FedEx increase their volume of activities significantly. This announcement also surprised the workers' representatives. Indeed, as you said, Mrs. Thémont, and as can be seen from the contacts I had with them yesterday, there was no advance sign or contact prior to this dramatic announcement. The authorities at Liège airport were also not informed or agreed before this abrupt announcement, as were the politicians, the Wallonia government and the federal government. No one had any information about what he was doing in Liège and Zaventem. It is all the more surprising and unbearable that these workers have shown great flexibility, especially since the absorption of TNT by FedEx in 2016. They have made considerable efforts in terms of working arrangements, working hours and night work. This is even more astounding in terms of the results and benefits that both have mentioned. As you know, I immediately contacted the representatives of the workers with whom I had a first meeting yesterday, early in the afternoon, after they were received by the Wallonia government. I made a commitment to them to follow the Renault procedure closely. FedEx must comply scrupulously and strictly with each of the stages and conditions of the Renault procedure. That is what I told the management of the company that I received after having had contact with the delegates and staff representatives. I told management my whole surprise. I also told him my anger and asked him for a series of explanations on the reasons and reasons for this decision. More broadly, and beyond the work that will be done on a daily basis to accompany the process and limit as much as possible the impact on employment, both in Liège and in Zaventem, I think we need to start a reflection on the evaluation and improvement of the Renault law. As you know, the previous government had already sent a series of proposals to the social partners. Unfortunately, they had not been able to reach agreement or consensus on the assessment of the law and the amendments to it. In my view, we must put the work back on the job and resume negotiations on this fundamental text, in view of what we are experiencing today, in this particular case or in other cases such as the one cited by Mrs Fonck. Nevertheless, we must be able to dissociate these cases, given the various foundations of the decisions taken and the different situations. In this case, we are in the presence of a company which makes profits, which has seen its turnover increase and which takes a decision on a basis which remains to be clarified for the workers. We will have to think about the revision of this Renault law and, possibly, make it compulsory to finance a social plan, regardless of the size of the company. It will also be up to us to consider coercive measures to improve the situation of subcontractors who are directly affected, as well as to consider the strengthening of the role of mediator or social conciliator. Mrs Fonck, to answer your question, this is not a request made by the staff representatives, but, as I said, contacts with them will be extended and will be regular throughout the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I really think that the announcements – and in particular this one – lead us to reflect on the evaluation and development of this Renault law. We will do this work together with the social partners, but I have no doubt that you will feed the work in committee or in this plenary. I am of course at your disposal to achieve this objective and to ensure that the existing arrangements in Belgium are strengthened and take account of intolerable situations and special cases such as this announcement made by FedEx.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, I cannot accept that an expanding company, which operates in one of the few sectors not affected by the covid, can announce redundancies, particularly 700 workers in Liège, which are being laid off in the midst of a health crisis. These workers were not at a standstill and our society considered them essential. Apparently, they are essential for society as a whole but not for FedEx, it seems to me. Mr Minister, I am pleased to hear that you are going to take steps to review this Renault law, so that consideration is given to it and steps are taken to strengthen it. I hear you'll be with the workers. Anyway, I hope so. And we'll be at your side to find solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u37	Mr Minister, you have already had contacts with the workers' representatives, you tell us to support them and to ensure strict follow-up of the Renault procedure. You said your anger and surprise to the management. All this is good and we can share these different elements. But I don't think that's enough. If I insisted on the intervention of a conciliator, it was because, indeed, the workers and their representatives had received no information upstream, no signal! This alone must justify your decision to send a social conciliator on your own initiative. Indeed, it is good to say that you are going to make sure that the Renault procedure is followed correctly, but how can you ensure it remotely? Send a social conciliator! I think it's important. Furthermore, you did not reply as to whether you had contacted the French government, which, I would remind you, is the majority shareholder of the Paris airport, which organises this relocation. You didn't? It's not too late! Do it! Call the French government and weigh your weight as Minister of Economy and Employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u38	Minister, I asked you a very clear question: are you going to rely on the election promise made by the PS regarding the application of a ban on stock market and financial redundancies, during the discussion you are about to have, in order to put under pressure the leadership of FedEx? And you responded by referring to the Renault procedure when you know very well that it often leads, in the end, to the loss of jobs. Today, what workers need is a balance of political forces. It must be said that it is no longer possible to continue in this way! Mr Minister, I believe that workers will first have to fight personally to go out to keep jobs in their company. It is to them that I address myself: don't let go! Continue the fight! After 24 hours of strike, the number 1 of FedEx Belgium has already been forced to declare in L'Echo that he thought perhaps to reduce the number of jobs abolished. Since, after 24 hours of strike, he's already starting to step back a little bit, I want to say to the workers: continue the fight! There's a way to get the job from us! Especially don't let yourself be divided because that's what the boss will try to do. How will the 671 workers who will have to leave the company be selected? Will it be the sick? The weakest? Women? Any recent arrivals? Keep this unit to win the fight and get the jobs maintained because our region of Liège, Wallonia, Brussels, Belgium need jobs and a future!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u39	Madam President, Minister, in March, a year after the start of the crisis, the catering industry will have closed for eight months. The life's work of many restaurant bosses, who have often spent their last pennies in their business, hangs by a thread. The reality is that, as in other sectors, there is a wave of bankruptcy. I have often warned the government of this. After all, a lot of catering entrepreneurs will go down or throw the towel in the ring themselves. The Catering Federations are making numerous proposals, but the government is only looking at them sheepishly. This week, Horeca Vlaanderen proposed to reopen with small steps on 1 March, with family bubbles and one hug contact and with attention to air quality. Minister, I am sure you know the phrase better than no meat at all. The lack of perspective is clearly bothering them. But who can blame them? As a blow to the head, the CEO of Belfius, Mr Marc Raisière, whose mandate was ironically extended by this federal government last week for four years, declared that there is too much hospitality in our country and that he sees de facto corona as a tool for restoring the sector. Whoever has butter on the head should stay out of the sun. Coming back nicely while taxpayers have put billions of euros on the table to save Dexia is anything but a model of humility. Minister, will you at last give prospects to the catering industry, but also to other sectors? What are your views on the proposal for a step-by-step opening? Are you and the government going to send the CEO of Belfius, who is causing even more damage to our economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u40	"It's the economy, stupid!'. Those are not my words, Minister, but Bill Clinton's. He knew that the only way to stop polarization was to boost the economy. The economy is like a household. If our economy is going well, our citizens are also doing well. At the same time, the former president also knew: "Don't forget the health care." Two things that we must now think about, but which we must also constantly weigh against each other. The citizen understands that his freedom is restricted on the basis of scientific facts. The public understands that he can't come together anymore. But that coming together in our Burgundian parts is just as much fun, with a snack and a drink in the catering industry. It is precisely that hospitality that has been locked for so long, although there is no scientific evidence that it should remain locked. We also saw the same thing when closing the shops. Suddenly it had to be closed. However, there are no scientific studies. What do we see today? They're reopening, and the numbers aren't rising. Thank God, of course. Somewhere there is a scientific study on the impact of the non-medical contact professions and the hospitality industry, but hardly anyone has got a look at that study. Parliament certainly does not. Minister, if the entrepreneur, as well as the citizen, no longer feels that his freedom is being restricted for objective reasons, then the acceptance will also disappear. I come to my questions, Minister. Do you agree with me that the sectors need perspective, based on fundamental research? Do you have enough confidence in the citizen to publish this research systematically? You promised that the citizen would get perspective through the barometer. But who else heard about that barometer? Finally, do you agree with me that clear and logical rules are needed and remain necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u41	I was particularly shocked by the comments made by the CEO of Belfius in Trends / Tendances. A CEO should not make such comments and certainly not the boss of a large bank. Moreover, after the financial crisis, we saved that bank from bankruptcy and it is in the hands of the government at 100%. Behind the figures and statistics are employees, entrepreneurs, families, lives. Those self-employed and employees deserve our respect and support. The economic crisis caused by COVID-19 affects many sectors. This is the case, for example, for the cultural sector, the event sector, the contact professions, the travel sector and the catering industry. Restaurants are undoubtedly one of the most affected sectors. Cafés and restaurants have been closed for months. Hotels, even when officially open, see their number of customers reduced to a minimum. I have already had the opportunity to explain all the aid measures. Most of the measures were extended until the end of March. If necessary, they can be extended. As I have already said, we cannot abolish aid overnight. We have had to take new, targeted, appropriate measures for the sectors affected. The crisis will certainly have long-term effects on work organisation in most companies. This will certainly increase teleworking. Horeca business in cities will lose customers in the afternoon. The travel sector will also have to reinvent itself. Business meetings, congresses and symposia will undoubtedly be held more than before via videoconference. It is important to provide a perspective for these sectors. That is the task of the various governments and of the Consultative Committee. As Minister of Economy, it is my duty to adapt their protocols in consultation with the sectors in order to enable a safe restart. That is what we are working on, together with the Coronac Commissioner. I am in favour of transparency. So I agree to publish reports and messages. There is no doubt about that for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Today, however, you once again do not give any perspective to the catering and other sectors affected, while the clock is ticking mercilessly. You're staring like a rabbit at a light box. As always, you'll keep the jar covered. For me, the CEO of Belfius is unworthy of a CEO. That man, who appointed your government for another four years, has nothing to do with reality. For such flamboyant people there is only one solution and that is resignation. I call on all businessmen and staff from the hospitality industry to stop applying for loans from Belfius if possible and to cancel the clientship. The taxpayer was good enough to get Dexia out of the shit, but in return he gets nothing in return when he himself has a problem. Mr. Secretary, pull up your sleeves. Get to work and save the hospitality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Aid measures are good and absolutely necessary, but of course they are not blissful. We've already talked about that. I would ask you no longer to distrust the entrepreneur and the citizen, as some of your colleagues seem to be doing, but to give them clear, supportive and substantiated guidelines so that they can work creatively and innovatively even in times of crisis. Please stop with absurd rules or nonsense patronizing, because in the long run nobody understands the logic anymore. For example, one may not eat his fries on the parking lot of the fry in the car, but one may eat his fries if the same car is parked 500 meters away. Am I calling today to reopen the catering business? No. Do the parties themselves argue for this? Is that what they're expecting? No. They certainly expect an objective basis and solution-oriented thinking. This will make everyone better: the citizen, the entrepreneur but also our Treasury, and that is certainly not insignificant. Let 22 January be absolutely not the lost day of the entrepreneur, but give our entrepreneurs perspective on getting back their work, their life and their life's work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u44	Madam President, Minister, last week I asked you a simple question about the wage standard and you indicated that you supported the social dialogue. We're a week later and it was written in the stars that what I came here to tell was confirmed by the unions. There's just no social consultation. That wretched 0.4% on which one negotiates is a jaw blow, an alms for the working class that kept the country straight during the epidemic. More work has been done in many sectors than ever before. In the food industry, for example, 7 days out of 7 were worked and overtime worked, it simply couldn't be done anymore. We were told testimonies, like Brahim and Nadine, who worked on the band at 25 degrees. That's just absurd. And a lot of companies had to deal with cluster contamination, especially in those sectors. Those people have run all kinds of risks, and now they're getting practically no raise. I understand the unions very well when they say that they will not play this game, that they will not participate in that 0.4% maximum. Minister, that is absurd. That's not negotiating, that's imposing a pay freeze. In this hemisphere we often refer to our neighbouring countries. Why not now? In our neighbouring countries, trade unions dare to demand 3, 4, 5 or 6% storage. If you ask me, Belgium can do so in many sectors. Since there is no agreement between the social partners, the ball is in your camp. So I have just one question. I would ask you today to take a clear position. Will you confirm here that the 0,4% storage is far too little and that it is possible to ask for more for certain sectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u45	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are not even a week after the CRB announced the 0.4% above the index, and that this is a wage increase above the index is very often forgotten in the debate, and the social partners have already stopped talking and put the ball in your hands. They are asking for solutions from the government and, above all, money, as I have understood in recent days. What has disturbed me in recent days is that the picture is being hung up as if the current and previous governments have not yet done anything for purchasing power or to support companies. However, billions have already been spent. In the context of temporary unemployment, the government, both the previous and the present, has taken over the company's wage burden as compared with 70% with a supplement of EUR 5.63 per day of unemployment. We have stopped the degressivity of unemployment. The government has also partly financed the holiday money. We have allocated EUR 450 million in the context of the reduction of farm levies for people who have started work again. I can go on like this for a while. Yet today the government is once again being looked at to release funds. Last summer we invited the social partners in the context of the re-launch talks led by the Prime Minister. I remember that very well. Some of the colleagues present were also present at these talks. In these talks, the interprofessional agreement and the distribution of the wealth envelope were also discussed very clearly. We knew that it would be difficult to assume responsibility in the context of social dialogue. Well, we are now a week away and an intervention from the government is being requested immediately. This is not our question. There is a month to negotiate an agreement. Minister, will you give the room, in line with our choice, to fully respect social dialogue and give all the opportunities, and will you motivate the social partners to come back to the table? Or are you going to answer questions about indicative wage standards and do you already want to allocate additional resources today, even if this does not happen at our request? I'd like to hear what your plan of action is in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u46	Madam President, Minister, the Central Business Council has indeed calculated that our wages may rise by a maximum of 0.4% this year and next year. This calculation was made on the basis of the 1996 Wage Act, which was reformed in a good way in 2017. Of course, compliance with the wage standard is extremely important, firstly, to safeguard the competitiveness of our companies, but also, secondly, to ensure employment in our country. At the same time, it is also extremely difficult today to assess the impact of the corona crisis on our economy and employment. Today, therefore, more than ever, there are many uncertainties in that debate, and today, of course, the trade unions consider it necessary to bring down wage bargaining between employers and employees with two feet ahead, before it has begun. Why do the unions do that so quickly? I cannot get the impression that they are sure to win, that they are convinced that the government will resolutely side with the trade union and release the wage standard. You yourself have sown the seeds for the union's victories in the coalition agreement, because it says on the one hand that the wage standard law will be retained and will remain untouched, but on the other hand it says that there can be a deviation from it in conversion letters. This, of course, puts the cat in the milk, just when our economy and employment are under enormous pressure from the corona crisis. Now wage moderation is incredibly important. Hence my questions, Minister. Will you indeed allow the wage standard, which is calculated by the CRB, to be exceeded in an agreement? What will you do if the unions keep putting the ball in your camp? Are you also considering a postponement until there is more clarity about the impact of the corona crisis on our economy and employment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u47	The negotiations on the interprofessional agreement and the margin for wage storage are primarily the task of the social partners. As you know, this is never an easy exercise, because both workers' representatives and employers' representatives have legitimate concerns. This year the uncertainty caused by the corona crisis makes the exercise even more difficult. Nevertheless, the Secretariat of the Central Council for Business is doing important and serious work to propose solutions. As Minister for Employment and Economics, I naturally follow the negotiations closely. These are fundamental issues for the government and for social dialogue. I have told the social partners that I hope that the situation will develop positively, that creative solutions can be found and that consultations can be resumed and brought to a successful conclusion. The social partners know that I am listening and available to help find solutions. However, it is not up to the government to impose on the social partners how to negotiate. This is a question of fundamental respect for social dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u48	Minister, you continue to talk about social dialogue, but there is no social dialogue at all with such a patronage. Let's be clear about that. That is why the negotiations have come to an end. The trade unions are asking you to take the stand. That's a very simple question, but you don't. By not taking a stand, you just opt for the 0.4% standard and choose the side of the wage-blocking law. That's the problem. In this way, politics continues to intervene in wage negotiations. At least I expected a left-wing minister to make a statement that he wasn't so concerned about the Michael administration's legacy. The working class that kept the country right during this epidemic deserves a real raise. As long as that's not possible, the PVDA will keep hitting this blue nail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u49	Minister, I think it is a good thing that you want to give the social dialogue every opportunity. You refer to creative solutions. For my party, that means within the framework of the 1996 law. Let's get that straight. I don't care. I don't care. In this debate, colleagues like to talk about throwing the wage bill in the garbage. They also refer to neighbouring countries. I therefore believe that the intellectual honesty must be dared to conduct the debate on automatic indexation and other matters as well. It is not my party's choice to have that discussion, but when we talk about that wage standard over and over again, with an index of 2.85 % for this year, we must dare to have the full discussion. Minister, I hope you will give the social dialogue every opportunity. I have the impression that we will be talking about this in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u50	Minister, you have actually missed a very big opportunity today. It is not your responsibility to say how social partners should deal with each other, but it is your responsibility and the responsibility of this government to clarify the framework. The wage standard is an important part of that framework. I have asked very clearly whether you will allow the wage standard to be thrown aside, or not? You did not answer that question. That's a missed opportunity, of course. You have to be clear about that. I'd like to warn you. If you will allow our companies to work at higher costs in the future than those in neighbouring countries, then both you and I, and everyone involved, know that this will cost jobs and purchasing power. We call on you to be clear, to maintain the wage standard and not to circumvent it by means of a debriefing letter. The employment situation is already precarious enough. Create clarity, maintain the wage standard, stop the social dialogue from muddling and don't play into the hands of the unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u51	Minister, I have the impression that we continue to struggle with telework. Yesterday morning I heard on the radio that there was 80 kilometers of traffic on the classic routes from the Leopold II to the Kunst-Wetttunnel, from Namur towards Luxembourg-Liege-Aachen, from Ghent to Antwerp and from Antwerp to Ghent. Of course, that 80 kilometers is only a fraction of the traffic jams on a normal day in January in a normal year, which should be better thanks to telework. Mr Minister, although you are fully committed to flash checks until the end of February and his thousand inspectors are on the job to carry out those checks, yesterday the President of the FOD WASO was surprised that according to the figures four companies out of five are doing well in telework, but one out of five are not. Of course mobility rates do not say everything, but in any case it shows that today half more people are at work than in November 2020. At that time, 50% of employees were absent compared with 25% today, while the same rules and agreements apply. That worries me. I also heard the President yesterday explain that small businesses often have no telework policy. How will you deal with the problem? Will you, for example, work faster with minutes and for companies with a policy on warnings? Today, the discussion with the Prime Minister clearly highlighted the importance of teleworking, because not teleworking contributes to the spread of the virus. Minister, I do not need to convince you that the coming weeks are essential. Will you therefore increase your gear with the controls on telework and impose tougher penalties?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u52	Thank you for your question, Mrs Muylle. Telework is important for the health of workers, the general population and the economy. I am convinced that we can best support our companies by curbing the epidemic. The worst thing would be that we're facing a new wave. I have therefore asked the various inspection services to pay more attention to compliance with the obligation to telework. The most problematic cases can be punished. A total of a thousand social inspectors monitor compliance with the measures. Since the start of the campaign and until 18 January, the services have carried out 1,235 telework checks on a total of 3,675 employees. 95 infringements were detected, involving 430 employees. 200 warnings were given, and a deadline was set in 13 files to put things in order and 8 projusti's were written. In addition, 66 flash campaign checks were carried out between 5 January and 17 January. The number of companies audited so far is not known, but the focus of the flash checks is therefore on the covid risk analysis. The checklist used by the services is clear. The various inspection services and the prevention and protection services at work are working closely together to this end. The health situation is, of course, closely monitored and controls are adapted to the evolution of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am surprised that 3,675 employees have been checked in 1,235 companies. If it turns out that a thousand inspectors are on the track today to check, then I am surprised at the rather low figures. Hopefully, by the end of February, you will be able to go a lot further with those thousand people. Mr Minister, telework is not new. Telework has been mandatory for 10 months, with the exception of a period in which it was highly recommended. Today it is again mandatory for the jobs where it is possible. If I have to observe today that many companies still have no plans for teleworking and have not agreed on it, then I hope that the government will increase its pace, because teleworking will become essential and fundamental in managing the crisis in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u54	Madam President, Minister, entrepreneurs who have had to shut down their business in order to maintain our health system deserve our support. We agree on this, and that is why we have also taken measures to prevent these companies from going bankrupt unjustly. However, I note that the partners we are counting on are the banks that are acting like saboteurs. How else should I interpret the words of Mr Raisière's top man, Mr Belfius, when he says that our economy may need a good crisis, that there are actually too many catering shops and that it is not bad at all when a lot of them go bankrupt? How harsh are those words from someone from the banking sector, a sector that we saved less than 15 years ago with tens of billions of taxpayers' money? How little empathy can a banker have with his own clientele that fights to survive? Minister, I get dozens of messages from self-employed people who are sent to the wall by their bank when they want to use the support measures we have agreed on. Apparently, there are banks that attach additional conditions to that that we have not agreed to. The result is sometimes poignant. It is about self-employed people who are obliged to subdue all their pension funds now or, worse still, to empty their children's money to keep their heads above water. I find that unacceptable. I find it unacceptable that they should be the victims of the sacrifice that we have asked them to make. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you how you will ensure that the aid measures we have agreed with the banking sector are correctly applied and that this aid effectively reaches the entrepreneurs who deserve this support more than ever.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u55	Madam President, I did not just say it in the micro. Mr Vandenbroucke does not belong to my group, which is why I waited for a moment, but I found the lack of respect again unacceptable to the question he raised on the part of a number of people in the Chamber unacceptable. I am sorry to have to say this, but also Mr Calvo, who, when speaking in the micro, uses the word "respect" more than any other word, seems to regard the hemisphere as a coffee room, because every time he comes in, it has happened several times already, he talks loudly with Jan and alleman. I have the impression, Mr Calvo, that you should be quarantined so that the work here can be done properly. It annoys me extravagantly. Mr Vandenbroucke's question, for example, deserved attention from all of us, just like any question that is asked. Anyone who wants to chat and chat with colleagues has a lot of walkways here to do so. I am very indignant about the lack of respect that is being paid here for the questioner. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u56	Madam President, I would like to apologize. I was indeed talking to my colleague. If my... [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u57	It's not the first time, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u58	It's a little weird to argue just now to get each other to pronounce and not give me a chance to express myself. I was actually talking to a colleague. My apologies, if that has disturbed another question. That is a rightful point of attention from Mr De Roover. I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u59	Madam President, Mr. De Roover is right: this is an important question. We must appreciate Mr Calvo's response in this Parliament, which recognises it. I think it's a nice step on his part. Minister, this is an important issue. Indeed, our independents are hurting. They have a hard job that they can't practice anymore. According to the information that is coming today, we fear that these contact jobs will not be able to reopen tomorrow. Yet they need it. But, as if it wasn't enough yet, they're hurting their bank! The statements of the CEO of Belfius are quite distressing. Report in the media that there would be too many restaurants and cafes in this country, that some survive only in the dark, and that others will finally be able to reborn on the ashes of those that the covid crushed... It was outrageous! That's probably why we were, at the Reform Movement, with Benoît Piedboeuf, the first to react, so shocked by this statement. We thank you for your reaction to these statements in the media as well. Of course, it is useful for you to say this again before this Parliament, the seat of our democracy. You've seen it, on the ground, it's still very complicated compared to the banks. So, with the group of the Reform Movement, we have asked in the Committee on the Economy and in the Committee on Finance - other groups have also done so - to audit the banking sector in order to see why problems are repeated and why some banks are closing their doors to our independents when this is not justified. We hope that we can count on your assistance in this parliamentary work. Of course, it will be useful for us to be able to count on your presence. We have been working together in this Parliament for a number of weeks (9 months) on the banking agreement for the postponement of credit moratoriums. Minister, this excludes all events. This excludes those who have been closed since the beginning of the crisis. This also excludes all nightclubs. We may need to continue working together on this, because if we give some banks the tools of refusal, we would be complicit in certain situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u60	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, unfortunately we are still in the corona crisis. We'd rather not. The previous federal government had drawn up a two-pillar banking plan with the National Bank and the banking sector: postponement of the ongoing loans that the companies received, and an additional EUR 50 billion guarantee for the banks to provide one-year bridging credits to the companies. A further SME bazooka has been approved in mid-July: €10 billion with public guarantees to allow SMEs to lend even more from 1 to 3 years. The banking plan was very important for many entrepreneurs for the invoices of current contracts. There were also outstanding invoices. Thanks to the bank plan, the current invoices could continue to be paid and the outstanding invoices could not rise. We have seen that the hard-hit sectors were satisfied with this. But now these companies, and many others, are still suffering from the crisis. Their reserves are really getting up. There are liquidity and solvency problems, and the measures have not been extended, while the need for them is still very topical. My question to you, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, is: have you also received the signal that there is an increasing demand for credit because of the liquidity and solvency problems? Are you planning to develop a new scheme, or to develop an extension of the scheme with the banking sector and the National Bank, as under your predecessor, Alexander De Croo? If so, what plan do you have in mind in this respect? For what period?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u61	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this time the news of the week was in Trends. In particular, it involved two interviews, a huge stupid interview and a wonderful interview. The stupid interview was that with the top man of Belfius, Mr Raisière, who apparently felt it necessary to scoff at our catering industry, a sector that is already suffering so badly. I really cannot believe that the top banker, who is in a position to help the sector and who can make sure that there are fewer bankruptcies, will push this sector even deeper into misery. Besides, this is not about the top man of any bank, it is about the top man of Belfius. He felt that a number of entrepreneurs from the catering industry could simply go bankrupt. That's what people hear from the top guy in a bank who would have gone bankrupt himself if she hadn't been saved with our tax dollars. I find that all very sad. Fortunately, besides the stupid interview, there was also a wonderful interview in Trends. I am referring to the interview with Matthias De Caluwe, the top man of Horeca Vlaanderen, someone who has a heart for the sector and who stands up for it respectfully and firmly. He asked for perspective. After all, what our catering entrepreneurs really need is perspective to be able to reopen. Mr Vice-Prime Minister, I would ask you to do your work in this area so that we can free the catering companies from their handcuffs. We must offer them a perspective to do what they can best, namely to do. Secondly, they are asking for support at this difficult time. We have had this discussion on several occasions and we know that you, too, are in favour of a package of support for the catering industry. Moreover, we have urged Parliament to submit this support package and to approve it before the sector opens up again. Meanwhile it is almost the end of January and we have still not seen any lyrics. Minister, we need to move forward urgently. Where are the texts so that we can do our job quickly and decisively here?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you will not be surprised if I say that the current period is extremely difficult for many companies. Companies have to close down or limit a large part of their activities, which means they have significant revenue losses. During the current period, companies also see little perspective. Just before the start of this meeting, I received an e-mail from the Eastern Flemish department of UNIZO. The few testimonies of entrepreneurs in that e-mail are very hard at heart. With this government, of course, we are taking as many measures as possible to support and guide companies that were healthy before the COOVID-19 crisis. I am thinking, among other things, of measures relating to temporary unemployment, the right of bridging and the exemption of RSZ employers' contributions. Several measures were also taken and extended within my domain. The State guarantee for loans to SMEs had been extended for the first time. This was necessary to ensure access to finance for SMEs. This measure is now extended until the end of June. There has also been a measure concerning the moratorium on the repayment or repayment of entrepreneurial credits. As Mr Ducarme has just said, there is a nine-month limitation. That limitation has been imposed on us by the European Banking Authority. However, the nine-month limit should not prevent banks from finding the best possible solutions with borrowers so that they can start paying back their credit again. Once the nine months have passed, solutions will have to be developed, first and foremost on an individual basis. It is therefore recommended that companies in financial difficulty apply to their banks as soon as possible. Companies in financial difficulties should always turn to a banker as soon as possible. The government is asking the banks to take up their role as well. We are following that with them and with the sectors together. The government has already taken a whole package of measures in all areas to guide our economy and our businesses through the crisis, a crisis which affects a great many sectors, including the catering sector, including the event sector. That is why Mr Raisière's remarks are against many people's minds. I do not think these statements are sensible either. I have already said this in the press, and I have addressed it to him. These statements not only deny the difficult situation in which many people find themselves. They also miss the many efforts the government is making for these sectors. I have therefore recommended that he clarify and correct his statements. He did. It is now important, as some have said, to give the sectors that had to stop their activities a fresh perspective and to make it clear that there is light at the end of the tunnel. That is why, along with many others, I have advocated the creation of an exit plan so that we can once again offer hope and a horizon to the entrepreneurs concerned, whereby the government takes remedial measures and continues to support our businesses. The government is preparing such a package, including for the catering and events sector. We must now do everything we can to give entrepreneurs the opportunity to do what they are so good at, namely to undertake. We must do everything we can to strengthen the relance that our country needs and that those hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs in our country can once again be the driving force behind the government's recovery policy. In this sense, they deserve our full support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is very good that you have addressed Mr Raisière to his stupid statements. I am also pleased that you have put forward additional support measures, which are more than welcome. We all long for the end of this wretched, lingering health crisis. Certainly entrepreneurs who are obliged to stop their activities are more than ever entitled to a future. They do not have that future when the banking sector obliges them to have their pension capital or children's savings. It is also good that you have underlined the role of the banks. We expect all support and a constructive role from them and not the role of saboteur.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u64	Minister, thank you for your response. It is important that you be on this file. You mentioned the nine-month limit. Unfortunately, I remain convinced that leaving the actors in the event sector – I am thinking here in particular of the nightclubs and bars that will be closed for nine months when March arrives – alone in their relations with some banks is problematic and leaves me puzzled. By March, we could think about supporting this sector, which could perhaps be done in the context of the work of the joint committee. These bankruptcies will be paid twice. They will, of course, be in the context of unemployment, but also in terms of tax revenues. As you said, we must continue to be with these independents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u65	Minister, I am glad that you feel the need very well and take the testimonies seriously. I misunderstood that there is no more state guarantee. It is therefore very important that there is more communication with SMEs that banks remain supported and that banks cannot hide behind other measures. Communication may already be a means of forcing banks to show greater solidarity, as we have all been during the financial crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u66	Minister, you know I'm off the coast. Actually, I'm from a catering family, too. My first student jobs were at my niece's restaurant. The first thing one learns when working in a restaurant in West Flanders is "chaud, chaud," in West Flanders French. Warm, warm, which means it will go forward, everything will happen here, get out of the way. I must be honest: I had hoped today that your answer would be "chaud, chaud," Minister. It will go forward, we will come up with new plans and specific measures for the catering sector, we are all going to do so. I am terribly sorry, but that was not your answer today. I have heard today the list of generic aid measures for the sector, which we are all aware of. I have heard today that you say that there is a need to talk about a perspective for reopening, but no commitment has been made in any way to enable specific support measures for the catering sector. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a step back! You have already made that commitment in committee. You have not only done so in substance, but you have also indicated the time frame for the implementation, namely the reopening of the sector. Minister, please, chaud, chaud, let it move forward, come up with your texts. We are ready in Parliament to approve additional aid to the catering sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u67	Deputy Prime Minister, the title of the question is a little too restrictive in relation to my intention. Indeed, I would like to ask you about the danger of all extremes, not only across the Atlantic - as we can see - but also in many European countries, including our own. In this regard, I have already questioned several of your predecessors, whether they are in charge of the Interior or of Justice. Regularly, I have been told of figures given by the State Security regarding the observation of extremist groups on the left or on the right. These figures are constantly increasing. I would also like to thank my esteemed colleague Moutquin for having recently asked you about this. This leads me to ask you some very clear questions as well. First, does the State Security have sufficient capacity to carry out all its tasks, given that they are multiple, given the rise of certain extremisms? Secondly, I was able to read in the government agreement that he was in the process of preparing a "radicalism plan". Can you already give me some concrete measures and the timing of its implementation? Thirdly, I myself am immersed in various reflections on the possibility of legislating on what is commonly referred to as "hate speeches" in so-called social forums. I would also like to know whether, from a legal point of view, there are elements that would allow us, like other countries in Europe, to stop this phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u68	Mrs Jadin, our country is not immune, like other Western democracies, to the dangers of extremism and terrorism. I will be very clear: we are radical when it comes to defending our rule of law, and we will also be radical when it comes to those who attack him. Whether this threat comes from the left, the right or Islamist extremists does not matter. We take all forms of extremism seriously. In recent years, the threat has come mainly from the jihadists, who remain the most important problem. However, we also see increased activity by right-wing extremists around the world. The number of extreme right-wing incidents in Western Europe has doubled over the past decade. Our security services are following all these threats. How do we proceed? We are working on the basis of a "radicalism plan" that we are going to convert into a strategic note on terrorism, extremism and radicalism. We do so through the so-called "terrorist" list, as well as through the local task forces and the comprehensive security cells that exist in every city and municipality in the country. As we have seen in the United States, incitement to hatred and violence based on religion, sex, belief and origin is often the catalyst for extremist actions and attacks. These expressions are punishable in our country, but are not always prosecuted. That is why the Government will take the initiative to amend article 150 of the Constitution, so that extremists who incite hatred and violence will never go unpunished. It is also for this reason that this year we will further strengthen State Security by recruiting 20 agents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u69	Minister, thank you for your answer. In any case, these are clear and satisfactory answers to my questioning. We all here, who are democratically elected, have an interest not only in continuing to defend the values of freedom and democracy but also in providing correct and factual explanations. Indeed, this is done much less than before. Moreover, truth has its nuances and the nuance, often, is not always easy to understand. But we must make this effort and do it all together. I hope, therefore, that these phenomena which we are seeing will gradually become part of the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u70	Madam President, Madam Minister, ten months ago, in an emergency, in the face of an unprecedented health situation, the first covid order was taken. Many others have been followed through which fundamental freedoms are restricted or even suspended. I want to start here by being very clear. There is no question for my group to question the need for measures. States have a duty to rise to the challenges of protecting the lives and health of their citizens. Our collective priority is to get out of the crisis as quickly as possible and as little damage as possible, but ten months is a long time. It's a long time for front-line staff in hospitals and nursing homes. It is a long time for mayors and police forces who have to enforce sometimes difficult measures. For workers in the so-called non-essential or jobless sectors. For prisoners who have not held their children in their arms for months. For some women forced to give birth with a mask or without a partner. For those who are confined to violent homes and for so many others. It's a long time for all of us, deprived of contacts, encounters, cohesion, actions, expression, in short, deprived of most of the things that give our lives their flavor. Ten months is a long time, and this can also create fears of a temporary installation in the course of measures which are intended to be temporary. Let's not get used to it! Let us always remember that today, as on the first day, these measures are quite exceptional and someplace abnormal, which should be limited to the strict proportion! Ten months is a long time, and voices have risen, the first emergency, to call on the legislative power to clarify the legal basis for the measures. I would like to point out that you have listened to this call. Together with the government, you have put on the job a bill "pandemic" that will have to provide a clear legal framework to ensure the greatest effectiveness of the measures, including in their application by the judges, and also to ensure a healthy democratic debate. Minister, it is likely that the development of this legislation will take a little time. What can you tell us about this "pandemic" law at this point? In the meantime, what do you think of the idea of holding debates in committee to discuss the measures in force or when they need to be adapted or taken in new ways? Finally, what do you think of the idea advocated by Patricia Popelier, in particular, to include experts who advise the Committee for Consultation of Fundamental Rights Specialists from now on? In this way, useful legal considerations could be incorporated into the decision-making process as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u71	Madam Chair, Mrs Hugon, as you said, a bill "pandemic" is currently being prepared. Since we already have an adequate but more general legislative basis on civil security, this new "pandemic" law will be a special basis. It will introduce a methodology and basis for action that could be taken in the event of an epidemic emergency. When drafting the project, a balance was sought between the flexibility required in the application of certain measures, on the one hand, and legal certainty, on the other. The aim is not to provide an exhaustive list of measures, since we will not be able to predict the characteristics of possible future pandemics. However, the planned measures are similar to those we already know today. In addition to the justification and time limitation of the measures, proportionality will be particularly important. It must be clear that each measure is proportionate to its objective, namely the protection of public health and the right to life. It is certainly not a question of making fundamental rights ineffective. Moreover, control by courts and tribunals will always be possible. Of course, the division of powers between the federal state and the federated entities must also be taken into account so that it is not emptied of its substance. In this regard, consideration is also given to how a system of parliamentary scrutiny can be introduced, without calling into question the urgency with which decisions must be taken or legal certainty. Today, a committee in Parliament is already debating the crisis and its management. The assessment to which you refer can therefore also be made in this committee. As far as the entry into force is concerned, I am looking for an early entry into force. You will understand that I cannot now predict the evolution and duration of this crisis, but it is not excluded that the law is already applicable during this period of crisis. The draft is currently being drafted. The process will continue. Inter-cabinet consultations are taking place. After deliberation in the Council of Ministers and presentation to the Council of State, the text will be submitted to the House of Representatives. I conclude by saying that the situation is very difficult for everyone. Citizens are being asked for a lot of effort, and it takes too long. Let us hope that with the vaccine and the efforts made now, we will return to our lives in the short term. I hope so with all my heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u72	Minister, I sincerely thank you for the answers and the clarifications you provide, for the perspectives you draw, for the beacons you are putting out right now, which are very important. Of course, we will be very attentive to the development of this bill. I would also like to stress one point: to include measures to combat the pandemic in a law is not just a technical issue. It is not even a question of legal certainty. In our view, it is also, and perhaps above all, a question of democracy. If the Constitution in principle reserves to the legislative power the question of restrictions on rights and freedoms, it is that these restrictions must be accompanied by democratic deliberation. The public parliamentary debate enriches decisions and makes the elements and considerations that lead to action transparently known. It is the assurance of a better understanding of these and therefore of better legitimacy and adherence. This is an opportunity, through clear, transparent and predictable decisions, to build confidence with citizens, to whom we ask so much. Like what is currently happening in the Netherlands, Parliament is available now and alongside you to continue this work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u73	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u74	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 January 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 January 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u75	I have received amendments to the bill amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Fees, the Code of Succession Fees, the Code of Miscellaneous Duties and Taxes and the Mortgage Act of 16 December 1851, as well as to the Code of Amicable and Forced Collection of Tax and Non-Tax Claims, Nos. 1673/1 to 3. I have received amendments to the draft law amending several amendments to the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights, to the Code of Succession Rights, to the Code of various rights and taxes and to the mortgage law of 16 December 1851, as well as to the Code of Friendly and Forced Recovery of Tax and Non-fiscal Claims, Nos 1673/1 to 3. I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on Finance and the Budget (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Finance and the Budget (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I have also received amendments to the various economic provisions bill, Nos. 1515/1 to 3. I have also received amendments to the draft law on economics, Nos 1515/1 to 3. I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u76	The next item is the vote on naturalisations. (1698/1-2) The next item is the secret vote on naturalisations. (1698/1-2) In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 7 January 2021, members were able to vote from Friday 8 January 2021 to today 4 p.m. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 7 January 2021, members were able to vote from Friday 8 January 2021 until 4 p.m. The two youngest members present (Melissa Depraetere and Sophie Rohonyi) are invited to attend the counting of the ballots. This will now take place in Room 3. The two youngest members present (Melissa Depraetere and Sophie Rohonyi) are invited to attend the recording of the votes. This will now take place in Room 3. The results will be announced at a later date. The results will be published later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u77	Madam President, Prime Minister, first of all I would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to a statement just now by Mr Hugon of Ecolo. I very much appreciated her statement, because she too very much insists on the introduction of a pandemic law. That is of the utmost importance. Just today, a police court issued a verdict that ministerial decisions are not a basis for maintaining, for example, the obligation to mask the mouth. I think that is a very serious signal. As a Member of Parliament, I have often warned, but they have fallen into deaf ears. Perhaps the verdict of that police judge and the excellent statement by our colleague from Ecolo could lead to some urgency in this matter, because we do not want chaos, of course. The discussion that has just unfolded, in which you replied together with your colleague, Minister Vandenbroucke, shows how difficult communication is in these times, in which we get a lot of questions from the people. Communication problems arise as a result of some enthusiasm about the rate of administration of vaccines, but then something goes wrong and that leads to a great deal of concern. I believe that this should encourage us to be modest, including in communication. In this context, I would also like to point out that during the Christmas period the turkey was already in the oven.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Also during the Christmas period people had already left on a journey, when it was decided that travellers should be quarantined upon return. Communication in this area came late, and that is the cause of a great deal of dissatisfaction and uncertainty. Mr Prime Minister, communication naturally encompasses a broad spectrum. As Prime Minister, you always communicate in all circumstances. That was also the case at your party's digital New Year reception last week. You know the old saying: one image says more than a thousand words. Now, your party has needed a thousand words to put one photo in context. Now you will say that this is an event, but I do not think you should underestimate it. First of all, I would ask you not to underestimate how this has happened to all those who have had to follow the heavy measures for months, inter alia, because you have rightly pointed out here with a strong finger that a great deal was expected of the 11 million tous ensemble crew and that we should do so together. Then, of course, you must show extreme caution in all your actions. For the sake of clarity, the storm in which you ended up last weekend on the occasion of the incident, I will be careful to say that the impression that has been aroused has struck wounds, especially in those who have had very painful experiences of the measures taken. I will be more lenient than the social media has been to you, Prime Minister, because we know that social media may be an amplifier, including its content, which is not always good for the debate. I am sure, Prime Minister, but I will ask you the question and answer it myself, but you may contradict me: do you think you took health risks at that time? Do you believe that you have shown irresponsible behavior from the point of view of the possible accumulation of corona? You may answer "no." I do not think you have taken any risks, I think you have acted with caution. The opposite would be rather strong and extremely careless, and I do not suspect you of that. My second question, however, is whether you have formally violated the rules, Prime Minister. After all, the situation is such that it is possible to break formal rules with caution, and it is on those formal rules that the people are addressed, not always on the common sense that they use. Your party hasn't communicated much or perhaps even much about it, said that everything went on in professional conditions, that it was recorded by a professional team and that the distances were respected. Perhaps most of the measures have been complied with, but I have talked to a number of people who know the ministerial decision: no matter how shaky the basis is, as I said, the decision is, of course, there, so we have to take it as a starting point. I don't know what you're gonna answer in a minute. We could make it a matter of fact, it could come to court, but that will not happen. I would like to know your opinion on this, because there may be doubts as to whether you have all complied with the measures so strictly. By the way, I have to tell you that I have reviewed the ministerial decision with people who understand it better than I do. After all, the ministerial decision has appeared crumbling in the Belgian Official Journal and must therefore be puzzled together. The citizen who succeeds in doing so has been called to higher things. That is why I went to the website provided by the government, which is www.info-coronavirus.be. Let me give you an example. We read the following, and I quote: "If you invite someone to your home, you may invite a maximum of one hug contact per family." When I put the ministerial decision in addition, I read that every household per member may receive up to one durable and closely maintained contact every six weeks at home or in a tourist accommodation house. So each member of the household may have one close contact. This is not entirely in line with what the population has always been told. So I repeat that I am concerned about the good citizen who must find his way in those provisions. Mr Prime Minister, that is why I have a final and a third question. In those circumstances, do you think that you should have run the risk of giving the signal that the event was unmistakably based on last weekend? Do you not think that you have run the risk of damaging your credibility as an advocate of strict compliance with the rules? The social media were effectively merciless. Those are the people who noticed today that their father or mother died in 2020 and they were not allowed to be present at the deathbed with all the children. Mr Prime Minister, if what you have done is in accordance with the rules, as we will be hearing in a moment, then it is very strange to note that those same rules have made this presence on the deathbed impossible. It's either one or the other. That is why I would like to ask you the following. Firstly, a word of apology to the general public would be appropriate here. You should have done that by now. You have an excellent opportunity here to do so. Back in the day, when we confessed, we had to do penance. We had to pray a Hail Mary or something. You probably won't do that. I won't ask you to. Perhaps it is a good opportunity, however, to take this seriously, Mr Prime Minister, to take advantage of the commotion that has arisen and the emotional damage that has been done to those who have had to do business in very difficult circumstances who are not even human at all, to do a gesture, by saying here that you will only mention one case, which does not involve revolutionary situations, and will make efforts to ensure that contacts of family members with terminal patients can take place in the very last stage of their lives somewhat more humanely than they may have been able to do here and there. Can you promise us that one thing here and today? Then we'll have a nice ending to an intricate moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u78	Madam President, Mr De Roover, I would first like to clarify a few points. In non-covid times, our meeting would have been a New Year's reception, in reality it was about a webcast, an online event like more organizations and companies these days. I do not believe that I have put the health of others at risk by participating in this activity. I was a guest in the webcast we're talking about. I was not the organizer of this, but I was assured in advance that it was organised in accordance with the protocols for audiovisual companies that apply to this type of activity today. I always ask that question when I'm invited to this kind of activity. Recently I did so for a webcast of Trends for the award of the title Manager of the year, or a webcast of Voka. I fully agree that we all have an exemplary role to play. This means that we adhere strictly to the rules. I do not support the principle that this means that ministers should stay at home. I read that sometimes. It is important to be physically present, for example in this House to engage in the debate, in committees or to give interviews on television because transparent communication is an essential part of how to deal with a crisis like this. That's part of a democracy. I will continue to play that democratic role. That can perfectly go hand in hand with following the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u79	Prime Minister, you have eight minutes to speak. You don't have to fill them. In fact, it is always striking when a minister goes far beyond his speaking time, and we have already had some examples of this, and when he or she closes very quickly. I totally agree with everything. The N-VA is also an advocate for the legislative work to continue. Questions in committee can be dealt with in a different way. Nor should we withdraw from the world. Otherwise, the 'ivor tower syndrome' may be more likely than it already is. Neither is Corona a reason to reduce parliamentary control. I fully agree with you. I believe your answers that you have not taken any risks and that you have asked the question whether everything has gone coronaproof, but I do not think that this was the case, or rather, there is certainly reasonable doubt there. I fully agree with your answer, but it was half a minute too short. You disappoint me. You have not even had the feeling of giving a false impression to the general public, and you have not shown statesmanship here by admitting that you have given the wrong impression and apologizing for it. Was that so hard? I think that's weird. There's been real wounds in people. That only took 15 seconds. I would have hoped that in those last fifteen seconds you would do that small gesture with regard to people who have to experience the most difficult moment of their lives, namely the death of a loved one. I was hoping that way we could have ended it nicely. It is not to your credit that you have not done that gesture here, that you have not apologized for it, that you have not understood that there have indeed been people in tragic circumstances who have been able to offend the images of the speech, and that you will ensure that there is a little more humanity possible. You disappoint me very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u80	Colleagues, no motions were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u81	Mr Prime Minister, it is said that stillness is deteriorating, but allow me to say that this is one of the moments when standing still is the most appropriate option. Let's start at the beginning. In 2016, it was the Michel government, which concluded an agreement with China's communist regime on an extradition treaty providing for the possibility of mutual extradition of suspects or criminals. At the end of 2018, just before the fall of the government, that government decision was confirmed in Parliament. A fine piece of diplomacy from the Swedish Government, one might think. On the other hand, the government does not confuse Sweden with Sweden's, because until today, like other countries, that country is refusing to approve the treaty in question for more than reasonable reasons. Recently, on Christmas Day, the ratification process of the extradition agreement was completed and thus officially entered into force. Is such an extradition treaty an asset or a trophy? The answer to that question, Prime Minister, obviously depends on which party is looking at it. In diplomatic circles and therefore for the government, such an extradition treaty is mainly seen as an asset. It would facilitate the extradition of persons within the framework of international criminal cooperation and be essential to combat certain serious forms of crime, including organised crime. That is what the Foreign Minister said in committee the day before yesterday in reply to my question. So we need to see it as some kind of positive interaction. I'll leave the assessment to you. China, on the other hand, regards the agreement mainly as a trophy. China's leader has been systematically calling for such extradition treaties to be concluded worldwide for years. Why is that? Of course, I don't have to draw you a picture. This will make it much easier for China to increase the grip on political dissidents. In addition, these extradition treaties are, as it were, the interpretive way in which China applies international law. Let that be the intention of the authoritarian communist regime. Chinese diplomacy is actually proud of it and the triumphant video about the Belgian agreement that was shown on the Chinese state propaganda channel was not a lie. It was a kind of open letter to political dissidents all over the world, reading that they will be found and that they will do everything they can to bring them to justice in their own way. Prime Minister, we know that way. It's about people muzzling, torture, killing and making them disappear like they never existed. What does the government do and what did the previous government do? They express their concerns at national and European level. It is said that all necessary security mechanisms and guarantees are in place and that all requests for extradition will be examined very thoroughly. In the meantime, sweet sandwiches are being baked with a country which, euphemistically speaking, has a very dubious agenda. Prime Minister, with this policy you are falling for it with open eyes and full of naivety. You are even enthusiastic about this and defend the agreement, together with your Minister for External Relations, as if it were peanuts. The callers in the hemisphere when it comes to respect for human rights, the socialists and the Greens are standing by and looking at it. Understand who can understand. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that China is serious about the continuation of its authoritarian policy. The facts of the past few years do not lie. The communist regime has been pursuing a severe policy of repression against minorities for many years. The imprisonment of Uighurs in so-called re-education camps is only one example of this. For example, Tibetans are being spied on abroad and there are forced organ extractions at Falung Gongaanghangers. Political opponents are tortured and scientists disappear because they dared to tell the truth or sometimes even ask questions about the origin of the COOVID-19 virus. There is also the little subtle military threat in the South China Sea. Last year, China's People's Congress adopted the Hong Kong National Security Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u82	Colleagues, the introduction of this national security law has made freedom and democratic rights severely restricted and broken, and opposition has been made very difficult, if not impossible. That law also prohibits the pursuit of separation, foreign interference and so-called state-undermining activities. Fill out what you mean by that. Hundreds of citizens in Hong Kong have already been arrested and on 6 January this year political activists, academics, scientists, former legislators, district council members and lawyers were arrested on the basis of, yes, charges which were all derived from that conscious national security law. So it goes a long way. In practice, there is a real repression and a direct violation of previous agreements and of China's national and international obligations. The so acclaimed system of one country, two systems, we know some of them here doesn't work in Hong Kong either. The rule of law is under strong pressure there. The general situation in authoritarian communist China in human rights, on top of the fact that the country and its regime are increasingly gaining control of the world in many areas, does not surprise that Hong Kong citizens, as well as other minorities, are increasingly afraid of their lives and their families when they hear this latest news. Mr Prime Minister, I come to my questions. How do you explain that Belgium is currently ratifying such an extradition treaty? For the sake of clarity, can you indicate the precise details and content of the Convention, as well as its ratification? What about the possibility of controls or sanctions if China did not comply with the conditions imposed by Belgium? In addition, which European countries currently have a similar extradition treaty? Which have already ratified this? Which one of you refused to do this? What will this be evaluated in the coming period? I have also asked you for some figures on political refugees from Hong Kong in Belgium. In how many cases are spiritual minorities such as supporters of Falun Gong and others? The last, not least important question: when will you evaluate the impact of the extradition treaty if it would continue to exist? More importantly, are you considering suspending or stopping the extradition treaty in the light of the circumstances?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u83	Mrs Ponthier, as you undoubtedly know, the ratification of the Treaty by our country took place almost two years ago by the previous government. The extradition treaty was submitted to this Chamber by the then government and obtained its consent on 3 December 2018. On 30 January 2019, the then government informed China about the agreement. The recent ratification by China on 27 November 2020 brought the Convention into force on 26 December 2020. The treaty has thus come as a normal course, with the current government not taking any initiative in the area of ratification. For the content of the Convention, please refer to the text and to the discussion that has taken place in this Chamber. The finality of the extradition treaty is the fight against international crime and in particular against drug trafficking, international fraud and so on. For example, remember the gambling scandal of a few years ago. An extradition treaty makes it possible to transfer people to their country of origin under international criminal assistance. As you yourself say in your question, the treaty contains a number of important locks. For example, there are the mandatory grounds for refusal. For example, our country must not extradite anyone who is wanted for political crimes or who is at risk of torture, discrimination or condemnation of the death penalty. There are also optional grounds for refusal where our country can unilaterally decide that extradition cannot continue, for example because it is contrary to the ECHR. Moreover, each extradition is assessed individually and decided by the Minister of Justice. He will, of course, be guided by respect for human rights. The extraditions are therefore not automatic, quite the contrary. People don't just get transferred on simple request. Our country works within a broader international framework, within the ECHR. We must at all times avoid making the fight against international crime victims of political activists or innocent minorities. It is true that today we are faced with a new political reality, a reality that differs from January 2019, when our country ratified this treaty. You refer several times to the situation of the Falun Gonganghangers and of the democratic activists in Hong Kong. You will agree with me that the genocide on the Uighur Muslims is equally worrying. For this reason, the Government will closely monitor the actual impact of this Convention, i.e. each individual case. Practice will teach us whether there will be requests and how many requests for extradition are made outside the scope of the Convention, in particular the fight against crime. If the application of the Convention would prove problematic in practice, suspension or termination of the Convention is always an option. An extradition treaty can always be suspended or terminated, in accordance with international law. A number of other European countries have similar treaties, such as France, Italy, Spain and Portugal. You asked for figures on refugees from Hong Kong, China and Belgium. It is not possible to give separate dates for Hong Kong or Falun Gong. The number of applications for international protection from China has declined over the past five years, from 446 in 2015 to 179 in 2019. The figures for 2020 are not yet complete. On the total number of applications, the Chinese share decreased from 1.7 % in 2016 to 0.6 % in 2018 and 2019. Beware, however, to draw great conclusions, since these are small numbers, so the fluctuation is not always statistically significant.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u84	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I will not go into the issue of your government's cohesion again. A blind man can see that it must be very cozy in your Vivaldi meetings, mustn't it, Mr President? The dossier we are discussing again makes it painfully clear. Prime Minister, it is very naive to put trust in a country such as China when it comes to respect for human rights and rights in any fair legal process. The screens with the built-in security clauses and guarantees sound like hollow words to our group. After all, China will interpret every condition or security mechanism of the Convention and its elaboration at its sole discretion and, if necessary, wish to achieve its objective by means of a misdemeanour. China knows all the hind legs, and you have no illusions about that. No sane man doubts that, except this government, apparently. When it comes to control mechanisms, the truth is that you simply have no control. Once extradition has taken place, after all the control in our country by the competent authorities, it is out of your hands and you do not know in any way what is happening in China with the persons concerned. The conclusion of all this must be that you simply do not fight with equal weapons. In most cases, such a struggle has already been lost in advance. In our view, therefore, your answer remains very unclear as to the possibilities for monitoring. The same applies to any sanctions or means of pressure. If you are serious about respect for human rights, you would have already used this convention as a passport in the context of recent events in Hong Kong, following the introduction of the relevant national security law. You didn't do that, on the contrary. Perhaps you have good intentions, because you say that an evaluation is still possible should it prove in practice that it is not respected or honoured as intended. We will be able to weigh that in the future. However, you do not use the few tools you have in your hands to ensure that things are done correctly. By the way, in order to ensure that serious criminals are extradited to their home country, you do not even need a bilateral extradition treaty. I'm not saying that. That's what experts in international law say. I'm rounding up. Prime Minister, when such an agreement is concluded with a country such as China, all red flashing lights urgently need to be lit into vigilance. I would once again like to warn against a naive Beijing policy, which I did when discussing the foreign minister's policy letters. This seems to be the aim of the government, but if one approaches Beijing naïvely, the consequences are not the least. So now that the treaty has been concluded, we can start to fear worldwide persecution when the People's Republic of China endorses it. I am not just saying that, but also the UN and Human Rights Watch, which call such treaties a threat to activists and minority groups. Furthermore, Reinhard Bütikofer, Chairman of the Delegation for Relations with the People's Republic of China of the European Parliament, calls on all European Member States to immediately stop extradition to China and review all existing extradition treaties with China. It is therefore incomprehensible that Belgium is now implementing and formalising ratification. However, as I said, there are many countries that refuse to sign such a treaty with Beijing. According to the Flemish Interest, Belgium should have done the same. We had a chance to do that. We are therefore making a general appeal to stop naivety and fundamentally and strategically rethink our relationship with China, and we are making a specific appeal to stop this scandalous extradition agreement. We do so by way of a motion of recommendation, and I now submit that motion to the President of the Chamber on behalf of our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u85	Mr President, I have tabled a simple motion signed by all the leaders of the Vivaldi parties. I would also like to ask the urgency of this motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u86	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Annick Ponthier and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Annick Ponthier and the Prime Minister's reply, - whereas on 30 June 2020 a national security law was adopted by the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress of China, without the cooperation of the Hong Kong Parliament, aimed at sanctioning opposition activities and providing for the placement of Chinese security forces in Hong Kong; - whereas UN human rights experts confirmed on 1 September 2020 that the Security Act in question in Hong Kong is characterised by serious legal problems and contains excessive restrictions on freedom of expression, expression and the right to peaceful assembly; - considering that on 6 January 2021 53 political activists, academics, former legislators, current district council members and lawyers were arrested on the basis of charges derived from national security law; - whereas pro-democratic Hong Kongers in Europe have expressed concerns about extradition of political dissidents such as them, in the framework of extradition treaties with China; - considering the comments made by Reinhard Bütikofer, President of the European Parliament delegation to China, who said that each European Member State should immediately stop extradition to Hong Kong and review all existing extradition treaties with China; - considering that Human Rights Watch and UN human rights experts are seriously concerned about extradition treaties with China, in view of the possibility of abuse, torture and execution of extradited political dissidents and persecuted ethnic groups; - whereas several Western countries do not maintain an extradition treaty with China, including the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany, the Scandinavian countries and the United States, due to concerns about serious human rights violations by political dissidents and persecuted ethnic groups; - whereas the safeguards in the extradition treaty to prevent the extradition of ethnic groups and political dissidents are never sufficient to ensure that China complies with its obligations; - whereas the Supreme Court in Sweden has already banned extradition to China because it did not accept the Chinese guarantees and China did not meet the European standards for extradition; - considering that Chinese charges against candidates can be manufactured and that China is thus using this extradition treaty as a stick behind the door to suppress political activists and minorities throughout the world, as confirmed by legal experts such as Matthieu Burnay, Sebastian Veg and Sophie Richardson; - whereas in a recent case of extradition of Chinese businessman Lai Changxing by Canada to China, the Chinese regime has not complied with its diplomatic promises, asks the government - immediately suspend or terminate the extradition treaty with China; - refrain from future negotiations on extradition treaties with China." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Annick Ponthier and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs. Annick Ponthier and the Prime Minister's response, - Considering that on 30 June 2020 the Standing Committee of the People's National Assembly of China adopted a national security law aimed at sanctioning opposition activities in Hong Kong and stationing Chinese security troops there without the Hong Kong Parliament having been able to cooperate in the drafting of the law; - Whereas UN human rights experts confirmed on 1 September 2020 that this law on security posed serious problems of legality as well as exaggerated restrictions on freedom of expression and the right to peaceful assembly in Hong Kong; - Considering that 53 political activists, academics, former legislators, current members of district councils and lawyers were arrested on 6 January 2021 on charges based on the National Security Act; - Whereas Hong Kong pro-democrats in Europe have expressed their concern about the extradition of political dissidents such as themselves in the framework of extradition treaties signed with China; - having regard to the comments of Reinhard Bütikofer, Chairman of the Delegation of the European Parliament for China, that each European Member State should immediately end extraditions to Hong Kong and all extradition treaties to China should be reviewed; - Considering that Human Rights Watch and UN human rights experts are extremely concerned about extradition treaties to China because of the risk of ill-treatment, torture and execution of extradited political dissidents and members of persecuted ethnic groups; - Whereas various Western countries, including the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany, the Scandinavian countries and the United States, have not signed an extradition treaty to China because of their concerns about serious human rights violations committed against political dissidents and members of persecuted ethnic groups; - Whereas the guarantees contained in the Extradition Treaty, aimed at protecting ethnic groups and political dissidents by avoiding their extradition, are never sufficient to ensure that China complies with its commitments; - Considering that the Supreme Court of Sweden has already prohibited extradition to China because it did not accept the guarantees provided by China and that China did not comply with European legal standards on extradition; - Considering that China's accusations against extradition candidates may have been fabricated and that China would thus abuse this extradition treaty as a means of exerting pressure to persecute political activists and minorities around the world, all of which have been confirmed by legal experts such as Matthieu Burnay, Sebastian Veg and Sophie Richardson; - Whereas in the recent case of the extradition by Canada of Chinese businessman Lai Changxing to China, the Chinese regime has also failed to respect its diplomatic promises; asks the government - suspend or terminate the application of the extradition treaty to China with immediate effect; - to renounce any future negotiations with China on an extradition treaty." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mrs Melissa Depraetere. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block, MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gilles Vanden Burre, Servais Verherstraeten et Mme Melissa Depraetere. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u87	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 1180: Samuel Cogolati, Wouter De Vriendt, Séverine de Laveleye, Malik Ben Accour, Sophie Rohonyi, Georges Dallemagne - 1175: Nabil Boukili, Marco Van Hees, Greet Daems, Raoul Hedebouw, Peter Mertens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u88	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u89	Mr Lacroix, rapporteur, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u90	Basically, the Flemish Interest is opposed to dual nationality, as one can only be faithful to one national identity or community, when it really matters. A classic example is that of the hypothetical war between two or more countries of which a person is a national. When mobilized, he will have to choose which country his loyalty lies with. The abolition of dual nationality would thus be a step towards greater loyalty to our nations for persons of dual nationality. However, this is a very complex legal issue, as there are so many ethnic communities of so many different nationalities in Flanders and some countries make it almost impossible to renounce their nationality. However, some parties try to extend the rights of Belgians with double or multiple nationalities in such a way as to undermine national sovereignty, based on a typical internationalist logic. For this purpose, they call for the development of international law to extend the right to diplomatic protection of a legal person of two or more nationalities, including in the country of his second or even third nationality. This development is based on the effective theory of nationality, which states that the country with which a national of two or more nationalities has the closest link may indeed provide diplomatic protection in the event of a tort in the country of which that national is also a national. On the basis of this theory and the development of international law, left-wing parties are now also seeking to extend the right to Belgian consular assistance in countries whose nationals are also nationals. However, the right to diplomatic protection in the event of unlawful acts or humanitarian emergency must be strictly distinguished from consular assistance. The first concerns the protection of nationals whose rights have been violated by another State. In the second case, we are dealing with all kinds of situations, from administrative matters to emergency situations. They also refer to the reasoning that people with a dual nationality would be discriminated against against Belgians with a single nationality, because in Morocco, for example, they are entitled to Belgian consular assistance and Belgomarokkanen not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u91	However, this is a misconception, since people of dual nationality enjoy many advantages and rights from that dual nationality and in each country, apart from the two countries of their nationality, are entitled to consular assistance, whereas Belgians with a single nationality abroad have these rights exclusively at Belgian consulates. It can therefore be argued that Belgians with a single nationality are treated unequally in equal situations, i.e. are actually discriminated against because they can only rely on Belgian consulates and diplomatic protection abroad. In the hypothetical situation of being the victim of an international tort, as a Belgian with a single nationality, one cannot call on foreign authorities for diplomatic protection, which is something people of dual nationality can do. These privileges of Belgians of dual nationality thus overcompensate the lack of a subjective right of Belgians of dual nationality to be entitled, for example, to Belgian consular assistance in Morocco where they are also Moroccan nationals in addition to Belgian nationality. When we look at the actual consequences of these proposals to extend the right to consular assistance for Belgians with double or multiple nationalities, they immediately give us great concern. This extension would make it possible for Belgians with dual nationality who have committed serious crimes abroad to use our consular assistance. These include the foreign terrorist fighters who, for example, try to convert their sentence from Iraq to a prison sentence at the expense of our state and thus our taxpayers. These are unacceptable consequences for our party of such a proposal to extend the right to consular assistance. After all, Belgium is not responsible for the crimes committed by nationals of double nationality abroad and it would be logical to try in the country in which these acts were committed. In addition, our legal system and our security services are not prepared for the repatriation of serious criminals or terrorists, as they are being punished far too low in Belgium because of a lack of proof abroad, which would also cause them to be released too quickly, sometimes even more radical than before their imprisonment, and thus constitute a permanent threat to our national security. In addition to the major disadvantages that this extension of the right to consular assistance brings, there are hardly any practical advantages. For example, if you are an Italian Belgian, you can easily use the local services as an Italian citizen when you experience administrative or other problems. Moreover, if Belgians with a dual nationality or with several nationalities in a country of their nationality are in a humanitarian emergency, they can already count on assistance from the Crisis Centre and, in the most serious cases, on repatriation. Colleagues, the left-wing parties are also proposing to facilitate the abandonment of foreign nationality by Belgians with a dual nationality. This is because, according to these parties, freedom of choice prevails whether or not to have a dual nationality. Although one can argue from our Flemish nationalist ideology that a single nationality as Belgian must be the crown jewel for immigrants of successful integration, and is much more preferable than having a double nationality, this proposal contains a great viper. By this route, the left-wing parties are trying to make it impossible to repatriate the so-called new Belgians who have recently been naturalized to their countries of origin of which they are also nationals. If immigrants have only Belgian nationality, they can no longer be deprived of Belgian nationality and can no longer be deported as they would become so stateless and this is prohibited under international law. Although we are in principle opposed to dual nationality, we see behind this bill a transparent agenda of protection for criminals with an ethnic background. Another disadvantage of this proposal is of a fundamental nature. According to the law in force, nationality law remains a sovereign matter of nation states. Of course, we of Flemish Interest do not want to contribute to the further erosion of national sovereignty in favour of international law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u92	Madam President, I am glad that you are back and I am able to explain my position on the legislative proposal. It is a legislative proposal that is important to our group. We have tabled it together with a number of members of my group, in particular Samuel Cogolati and Séverine de Laveleye, Malik Ben Accour of the PS, Sophie Rohonyi of DéFi and Georges Dallemagne of cdH. The text has gone through a whole process and has clearly been improved throughout the process, also thanks to the amendments tabled by colleagues from the Vivaldimerie majority. The reason or catalyst for the initiative was what we saw in the outbreak of the pandemic. During the first few months we have all heard many testimonies of real injustice, expressed by a number of Belgians who also have a different nationality. It was painful testimonies, despite the efforts made at that time by Minister Goffin, who did what he could within the legal framework. However, you must imagine for yourself the following. You are a Belgian Moroccan or a Belgian Burundian. You were born here in our country and you have always paid taxes here. You belong to the third or fourth generation. It is not easy, if you wish, to abandon your other nationality. In that case, the legislation in our country seems to make it possible for consular assistance to be impossible for you if you were in Morocco or Burundi, as the example shows. This is unacceptable and does not make any real sense. It was therefore up to Parliament to listen to that sense of legitimate injustice. That's the spirit, the context of the current bill. I would really like to thank you all for the quality of the parliamentary debate. There were very useful contributions from Mrs Lanjri, Mrs Liekens and Mr Boukili. There have also been hearings, which have contributed to a good fond and the necessary depth in our debate. We have heard a number of organisations, which has certainly helped our cause. The proposal was amended in committee and we are satisfied with the considerable progress made. This bill, hopefully soon, will be able to extend consular assistance to all Belgians, allowing refugees, recognised stateless persons and people of dual nationality to appeal to them, except in cases where the local national authorities would refuse to do so, out of respect for the principle of sovereignty. In any case, it was essential to put an end to what was seen as a serious obstacle to the citizenship of a large part of the Belgian population, namely for those who also have a different nationality or have the status of refugee or stateless person. The problem lies in an interpretation of the consular legislation which often led to an automatic refusal to assist those persons when they were in the country of their other nationality. That negative interpretation for Belgians with a dual nationality is clearly rejected in the present legislative proposal. For us, it is important that there is no second-order nationality, no B-nationality. People with a dual nationality are equal and should have the same assistance. Moreover, our Constitution gives the same rights to all Belgians. It is therefore not true that our country would not provide consular assistance to some Belgians, a specific group or category, and that assistance would therefore be refused to people of dual nationality, refugees or stateless persons. The health crisis has certainly shown that it is often a matter of crucial assistance, for example when Belgians are blocked abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u93	That is why Parliament wants to correct the construction error and explicitly states that the consular assistance also applies to the groups cited, if there is no refusal by the local authority. Although the text prohibits automatic refusal to provide assistance, assistance may not be possible if the local authority decides to do so, but it is very important that we read the proposal as it should be and that a ban cannot be interpreted as a total ban anymore. We wanted to offer the possibility of consular assistance to people of dual nationality, even if they are in the country of their other nationality. There are two possible cases. If the local authority, for example the Moroccan authority, refuses to provide consular assistance to a Belgian Moroccan, then of course there is no assistance. If the local authority allows such assistance, there is no obstacle to that assistance. Everything will, of course, have to be looked at with the representation of our country on the ground. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal is therefore a positive rewording of Article 79, so that we avoid excluding certain Belgians a priori from the benefit of consular assistance. The proposal corrects this injustice. This is a victory with very clear, practical and concrete consequences for Belgians who are blocked abroad. It is also symbolically important to make it clear that all Belgians are equal, wherever they come from and whether or not they have a second nationality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, last spring, in the first wave, the sudden closure of borders and airspace had the effect of blocking thousands of Belgians abroad. The situation had been particularly critical for our compatriots who also held Moroccan nationality since, according to the Consular Code – and therefore according to the law – in Morocco they were under the authority of the Kingdom of Morocco and therefore could not benefit from Belgian consular assistance to return home to Belgium. Similarly, Burundi had initially prevented the repatriation of certain Belgians of dual nationality and had denied them access to flights specially chartered by Belgium at the last moment. This situation had aroused an immense sense of injustice and discrimination on the part of these binationals. Real human dramas have been played. I personally spent hours and nights looking at this problem. I must point out here that, thanks to the voluntarism of Philippe Goffin, then Minister of Foreign Affairs, hundreds of solutions were made, but the evil was done. Today, Parliament corrected the shot by amending the text of the Consular Code on the basis of a joint initiative of my colleagues, particularly from Ecolo and DéFI. As a reminder, in 2018, the plenary had almost unanimously passed a first bill to amend the Consular Code. This legislation made it possible to clarify the framework for consular assistance in our country, since there had been no legislation on consular assistance in the past. The explanatory memorandum stated that the text wished to reflect a balanced approach that would empower the traveller by informing him of the assistance he could expect from his country of nationality when, despite his responsible travels, he was struck by fate on foreign soil. As presented to the House, this law therefore reserved consular assistance to Belgian nationals only. In order to do so, it provided a limited list of situations in which consular assistance could be requested and granted. The aim of the proposal we have to vote on today, ladies and gentlemen, is to amend the Consular Code so that the binationals, those Belgians who hold another nationality - sometimes, I stress, without even being able to give up - can in the future, like any other Belgian, request the assistance of the diplomatic and consular services of their country, Belgium. Of course, consular assistance is generally based on the principle of an obligation of means rather than results. However, there can be no justification for any difference in treatment between Belgians, and the current wording of Article 79 of the Law can question and nourish the feeling of a double standard. You have to admit it. Our intention, with the amendment proposed here, is not to question the principles invoked in 2018, let alone the principle of the sovereignty of the authority of the other State concerned. There is no question that this proposal would allow for any form of interference. Our diplomacy must also maintain its freedom of action by being attentive to the principle of reciprocity which could ultimately harm Belgium in certain circumstances. Indeed, since Belgian law would allow Belgium to intervene in the relationship between a State and one of its subjects, on the pretext that this subject also possesses Belgian nationality, it would expose itself to third States intervening in the relationship between Belgium and Belgians who also possess its nationality. On the other hand, we aim to place article 79 more in a positive approach and formulation, leaving no doubt as to the efforts to be made by our State to provide consular assistance to all our fellow citizens, whether or not they are dual nationals, stateless persons or refugees. It broadens the scope for diplomatic posts and has the merit of no longer allowing posts to simply refuse consular assistance, as was noted at the very beginning of the crisis. In conclusion, today I am very proud of this because we are going to advance equality in Belgium, and this deserves to be stressed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us here a legislative work which we have done in the Committee on External Relations on two articles of the Consular Code. This seems to me to be a very good example of what fruitful and constructive parliamentary work can be, and I welcome it. It is important to stress this from time to time. Here we rely on several elements, including the Consular Code as it was reformulated through two reforms initiated in 2013 and 2018 by former Foreign Minister Didier Reynders. We have also studied with great interest the opinion of the Constitutional Court on one of the articles of the proposal which we will vote on at a later stage. We have also taken into account the implementation of this Code, which has been recalled, through the facts that we have witnessed, which have caused us great concern in April and May, concerning the repatriation of binationals during the first wave of coronaviruses. And finally, we auditioned three specialists who made a rich synthesis of all these developments. We have therefore been able to draw practical but also legal conclusions from all these elements in order to propose today a thoughtful and even intelligent evolution of this legislation, ladies and gentlemen. I am making a positive reflection on the method, for other legislation that requires one or the other adaptation. To this end, we have based our reflections on several principles: the principle of the national and territorial sovereignty of States; the principle of the sovereign equality of States; the principle of non-intervention in the internal and external affairs of third States; the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of the State of residence; the principle of reciprocity and a good political principle which guarantees good bilateral diplomatic relations in the future. I come back to the main amendments we are talking about today, which relate to section 79 of the Consular Code. It contains a classic rule of exclusion - a priori partial - of consular assistance to binationals, which is limited to acts affecting areas of sovereignty for which the consent of the State of residence was required. This customary rule is in itself consistent with the general principles of international law. For its part, the Constitutional Court confirmed the constitutionality of this rule in its judgement of 24 September last year. In addition, various experts have supported us in the faithfulness of the interpretation that this practice reflected. This wording of article 79 was considered too negative, because of the terms used: "Belgians who also possess the nationality of the State in which consular assistance is requested are not entitled to consular assistance when the consent of the authorities is required". As we have indicated in the justification for our amendment, therefore, Article 79 has often been interpreted as an automatic refusal to provide assistance to binationals in countries of their other nationality. This is obviously regrettable and has led to situations which we have particularly regretted during the first wave of the covid epidemic. By redrafting the article in a positive way, we are now fully in line with the proposal before us. In addition, we have been assured that legal certainty will be guaranteed in the light of the changes we are making. Of course, we are thus in line with the ruling of the Constitutional Court. I hope that we will have been able to prevent uncomfortable situations such as have been experienced by several binational fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u96	Colleagues, I'm taking you back in time about a year ago. We are at the beginning of March 2020 and you will travel to the country of your distant grandparents for a holiday or for a visit to your sick grandmother. Suddenly the boundaries close because of the corona virus. At that time, of course, aircraft are being used to fly the Belgians who are stuck there back home. That is how it should be, especially if you had left at a time when everything was still safe, that you were still allowed to travel, that there was no lockdown, and certainly not a closure of the airspace. Any Belgian who was imprisoned at that time could report to the Belgian embassy and received the necessary consular assistance. So you also register at the embassy because you are born and raised in Belgium and because you think you will of course receive the same consular assistance and assistance as everyone else and because you want to return home as soon as possible, to your friends and family and school or work. But then you'll be told with pleasure that you can't just go back because you have dual nationality. You are Belgian, but you also happen to be Moroccan, even though you were born and raised in Belgium, even though you didn't choose to retain the original nationality and didn't just get rid of it. So you will be treated like Moroccan and not as Belgian. For you, the borders remain closed and you can't go back home and your family. The same scenario occurred in other countries, where other Belgians of dual nationality were also detained, for example in Burundi, but equally in Turkey. Thousands of compatriots, often born and raised here, were so literally taken hostage by the country that regards them as its subjects. So thousands of countrymen have been in prison for months. Some of them lost their jobs because of that. Others couldn't finish their studies or had to do without their family or friends. The reason for all this misery is that Belgians who are also nationals of the country in which they request consular assistance cannot claim consular assistance if the consent of the local authorities is required. That's how it was in our Consular Code. Those local authorities, as it turns out, don't always give permission. That turned out to be the same this autumn, when thousands of compatriots got stuck because they had dual nationality, even if they had not chosen to have dual nationality, in countries such as Morocco, Burundi, Turkey and Algeria. Consular posts are often prohibited from providing consular assistance to persons of dual nationality when they are asked to do so in the country of their nationality. Not even when they've never chosen it. Not even when they're in that country for the first time. I must tell you that it is not always a choice to have two nationalities. Sometimes I do, sometimes I don't. Sometimes it's passed from generation to generation and one doesn't get rid of it. It is then very difficult or even impossible to renounce it. This includes countries such as Morocco, Greece, Burundi, Algeria, Costa Rica, Tunisia, Yemen and Argentina. I would like to talk about this aspect in two weeks' time when we discuss the resolution that I tabled and which was adopted in committee yesterday. So here we are talking about consular assistance. Belgians who also have a different nationality, even if that is out of their control, therefore enjoy in fact less rights or protection than Belgians with only one nationality. However, we always say that all Belgians are equal before the law. Such a different treatment is unacceptable. Belgians are Belgians, no distinction should be made between Belgians with one nationality or Belgians with possibly another nationality. The proposal before us today puts an end to this illegal discrimination. It now formulates the right to consular assistance in a positive way in the law, in Article 79. As a result, countrymen will receive maximum assistance when they need consular assistance. I hope that the proposal tabled by our Ecolo-Green colleagues, which was supported by everyone in the majority, will soon be adopted by a large majority in order to put an end to this illegal discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u97	Colleagues, we are gathered today to discuss and vote on the text to amend section 79 of the Consular Code. With the PTB, we have also tabled a text with the same objective, which has been added to the text we are going to vote on today. We want to respond to two considerations that are also the reasons for this legislative adaptation. The first is legal. Article 79, as drafted today, is considered in a commentary by the League of Human Rights as "a discriminatory article". The League even wrote that "this article was going to create a category of second zone citizens", which we cannot accept in our country, in a state governed by the rule of law. It was absolutely necessary to react. The second reason is the situation on the ground. How is this legislation translated into law? We have seen that in March and April last year, at the beginning of the pandemic, thousands of our fellow citizens have remained blocked in other countries, including Morocco and Rwanda without any consular assistance. They were stuck for weeks and months. I recall that these fellow citizens work here, study here, have their families here. Families were separated with children in Morocco and parents here. They couldn't go home. People who had to go back to work couldn't go home. This situation is unacceptable. It was absolutely necessary to react. Those were the two reasons why the text needed to be amended. I also want to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the civil society that has mobilized in a very strong way, for example the platform of Belgians blocked in Morocco, which mobilized day and night to gather complaints and testimonies, to establish the link between these blocked citizens and the various authorities that could help them. I want to applaud them from here and pay tribute to their work, which has been very important and decisive. It is also thanks to this pressure that the legislative situation has advanced. I want to thank the various colleagues who have worked on this proposal. I believe that it is acceptable to all those who aspire to a rule of law and a democracy that respects its citizens, regardless of their origins, and who consider Belgians as Belgians, regardless of their origins. It is a question of equality that all democrats can defend. That is why this text has been successful today. We have made the right decision, we have made the right choice, and I hope that today we will confirm this vote, to ensure that there is no second-rate citizen in a democratic State governed by the rule of law and that all citizens share the same rights and duties, without discrimination of any kind, whether it be origin or other grounds. That is why we will support this text. That goes without saying, since we have tabled a bill along the same lines in order to guarantee this equality between citizens, regardless of their origins.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u98	Madam President, we support this proposal. Georges Dallemagne co-signed the proposal put on the table by the Ecolo-Groen Group. In our view, it is important to confirm unequivocally that all Belgians, even when they have another nationality, can count on the consular protection of our country, in any case when international law does not object to it. I would like to make it clear that we must welcome the work which has not taken place today, but which is already being carried out on a daily basis by the Foreign Affairs Committee. Let us acknowledge that many Belgians have already been able to count on the great efforts made by Foreign Affairs in the past! It seems important to me, on the occasion of the passage of this text to the plenary, to commend all the efforts made on a daily basis. The principle is now clearly reaffirmed in the law, and so much the better! Madam President, you and you, ladies and gentlemen, will have understood this and we will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Messrs. Cogolati, Ben Achour, De Vriendt and Dallemagne, as well as Ms. de Laveleye, for joining me in this important bill. Indeed, the latter ultimately fits perfectly into what guides our political commitment, namely the equal treatment of our fellow citizens. As Léon Gambetta so rightly said, what constitutes true democracy, what constitutes equal treatment, is not only to recognize equals, but to make them equal. It was therefore our duty, as parliamentarians, to ensure that our laws met the requirement of equality referred to in article 10 of our Constitution. It was also our duty to correct the mistakes made by the legislator in the past, even though these mistakes were made by our own parties. It is this kind of work that is increasing political action. Thus, we had to amend section 79 of our Consular Code, which certainly had the merit of considering assistance not as a favour, as it was before 2018, but as a right. However, this right was in fact granted only to certain Belgians. This discrimination was highlighted by the crisis of coronavirus. We will all remember, ladies and gentlemen, the fate that has been reserved for thousands of our nationals who, following the closure of borders and airspace, which – we must recall – was decided overnight, at the beginning of the pandemic, could not be repatriated to Belgium, their country of residence, solely because of their dual nationality. We will all remember that for weeks these Belgians have been separated from their family, their friends. For weeks, these men and women have been deprived of their work and even of the necessary medical care. This was a situation of extremely difficult uncertainty to deal with, especially for all those for whom this second nationality was not chosen and to whom they cannot give up. Indeed, some countries do not allow voluntary renunciation of nationality; this is particularly the case in Morocco and Turkey. That therefore has nothing to do with whether or not we want to be loyal to our country. I would also like to say to the nationalist parties represented here that it is particularly inappropriate to give lessons of loyalty to our own country. The impossibility of giving up his second nationality is another real problem which the Government will have to try to provide answers through diplomatic channels, as the motion for a resolution adopted yesterday in the Committee on External Relations calls for. We must help Belgian citizens who have several nationalities to give up one of them and not sanction them. We must help them because, for those Belgians who have very little or no connection with the country of their second nationality, whether they are of the second, third or fourth generation, it was particularly difficult, if not untenable, to find themselves deprived of consular assistance from their country of residence. However, this situation was perfectly legal, since it was ultimately only the application of this famous Article 79 of our Consular Code, which still currently provides that Belgians who also possess the nationality of the State in which consular assistance is requested are not entitled to consular assistance, when the consent of the local authorities is required. It is true that the Constitutional Court ruled on this provision and held, in its judgment of 24 September 2020, that the difference in treatment thus established between Belgians with that nationality alone, on the one hand, and Belgians with several nationalities, on the other hand, does not constitute discrimination. Except that, in fact, as the experts interviewed in committee rightly pointed out, this provision does create discrimination which we had to put an end to because true equality is an equality which is recognised in law as well as in fact. That is why our proposal for a law provides for the extension of consular assistance to all Belgians, whether binational or not, but also to refugees and stateless persons. In other words, all of these individuals will be able to seek assistance from the FPS Foreign Affairs in the event of difficulties they encounter abroad, whether they are a death, a serious accident or a pandemic, in short, any circumstance that would put them in distress. The aim of this assistance is therefore to ensure the protection of the fundamental rights of Belgians abroad, including the principle of non-discrimination, the right to life or personal integrity or the right to respect for private and family life. This link between consular protection and fundamental rights has been made very clear in EU Directive 2015/637. Consular assistance is therefore a protection that is granted to a person who necessarily implies the exercise of a subjective right in order to be able to apply for it. This subjective right is enshrined in the Avena judgment of the International Court of Justice but also in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union or the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Any ambiguity and discrimination affecting this right should therefore be removed in our domestic legislation. That is what our text provides for. Of course, some will argue that this right will not be guaranteed because - given our concern to respect the principles of sovereignty and non-interference - we have obviously preserved the condition that the State of accreditation must consent to this consular assistance. Nevertheless, the change we are introducing remains fundamental. Today, any request for consular assistance is a priori excluded when the consent of local authorities is required, even before the State of residence can commit means to guarantee such assistance. Tomorrow, thanks to the vote on this bill, this request for consular assistance can be expressed. The State of residence is then responsible for trying to find a solution, given that it will always be an obligation of means and not of results. In other words, unless the State of accreditation objects, our country will have to try to develop a solution. As Mr De Vriendt rightly explained, he will no longer be able to automatically deprive himself of an instrument of assistance to his nationals. Today, our Consular Code divulges the unbearable idea that our country would have second-class citizens, "Belges". Tomorrow, this idea will be over and give way to an opportunity for consular assistance that will be open to all, while respecting the room for manoeuvre that must be that of the States concerned. As we have indicated, this option is in line with Article 10 of our Constitution, but also with Article 46 of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights, which guarantees consular assistance to all nationals of Member States, whether or not they have more than one nationality. Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons, I look forward to defending this legislative amendment and thank you in advance for supporting it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u100	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u101	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (180/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1180/5) The title has been amended by the Commission to "proposal for a law amending the Consular Code with regard to consular assistance to persons granted refugee or stateless status by Belgium and to persons with more than one nationality". The title was changed by the Commission to "legislative proposal amending the Consular Code as regards consular assistance to persons with a refugee or stateless status granted by Belgium and to persons with multiple nationalities." The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u102	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u103	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Dieter Vanbesien, refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u104	Madam President, we are talking in this discussion about accounting prehistory. Now, in January 2021, we will deal with the accounts of the year 2018. Certain accounts in the present bill date back to 2013. Since those accounts are now presented in Parliament in 2021, they are prehistoric accounting. In addition, the approval of the account, as is the case with the adoption of this bill, is the end of the budget path. At the moment we can see how correct and robust the budget at the time was, to what extent it was a correct assessment. While the presentation of a budget is always subject to a great deal of interest, you remember the debate that took place days before the Christmas celebrations, this final account is hardly interested and it is being chased by Parliament, hopelessly too late. It now appears that the Court of Auditors' judgment on the figures before us today is truly devastating. In a press conference in December 2019, more than a year ago, the Court of Auditors presented its 176th 'Blunderbook'. The Court of Auditors concludes that the quality of the accounts we are approving here today is downright poor. According to President Hilde François, the poor quality of accounting is problematic and the figures of federal budgets are not reliable. Without reliable figures, a government cannot draw up a reliable budget, which in turn affects the credibility of this country, the governments and the entire budgetary exercise. A Flemish expression speaks of wet fingering, but the budgets in this country are not drawn up with the wet finger, not even with the wet arm, but with a completely wet body. Something is being done on paper and the Court of Auditors' judgment on the Swedish Government's budgetary work has been and is devastating. The report notes that things are already going wrong at the base. For example, in the first version of the 2018 financial statements there were serious errors, which could have been detected through a first-line check and a limited analytical review. That is official language to say that we had to make a great deal of effort in order not to make those mistakes ourselves at first inspection. Moreover, the second version of the annual accounts still did not give a true picture of the financial situation and the assets of the general administration. "A faithful image" is accounting language for the fact that there were still gross errors in the figures. For certain headings, many transactions are not entered in the accounts or are incorrect, according to the President of the Court of Auditors, Ms François, at the destructive press conference in December 2019. This applies in particular to tangible and intangible fixed assets, stocks, tax claims and financial resources. The Court of Auditors sees a first problem in the accounting of tax revenue. It doesn't give a true picture of reality. Let me give you some examples. The federal government did not book at least 6 billion euros collected in 2018 as revenue in that year. Also, EUR 11 billion of unrecoverable VAT was not included in the general accounts, whereas it should be. According to President François, these amounts are so large that they damage the reliability of financial reporting. A second major cause for the poor quality lies in the lack of central control by the Federal Accountant. Some items were sidelined by billions of euros, for example the misallocation of more than 25 billion euros between personal and corporate taxation. So there is something on paper and at the moment when the general accounts are closed, so today, it turns out how seriously wrong that estimate was, there is no cat interested in it. That is a tried and tested tactic in Parliament, totally incomprehensible, but it is the reality in our country. Belgium's credibility vis-à-vis abroad, our international reputation, is therefore also at stake. From the financial year 2020, the Court of Auditors of Europe will have to carry out a certification of the Federal State's financial statements. That is what is happening at the end of this year. If we had to do so now for the financial year 2018 -- the figures we are approving today -- we would either reject them or at least abstain, the Court of Auditors stated. So you will forgive us, Madam Secretary of State, that if the Court of Auditors were to reject this general account of the general administration for 2018, we, as an opposition party, would do the same. We will not approve this bill. Madam Secretary of State, I certainly do not want to point the finger at you today. I want to be very clear about that. In fact, you have no political responsibility for this. You were given this file, but it is, of course, a legacy of your political predecessors, of the Swedish Government to which your party belonged. In this sense, the attitude of our good friends of the N-VA is striking, even today. In committee, the N-VA Group supported these unreliable Belgian accounts, despite the devastating judgment of the Court of Auditors. Here in plenary today, they are applying the scorched-earth tactics, because the party was, of course, part of the Swedish Government and provided the Minister of Finance, and is therefore politically responsible. It was once again Mr Piedboeuf who, as a kind of missionary of this new government, preached not only in this Parliament the resurrection of the securities tax, but also the improvement of the quality of the accounts. He also does so as chairman of the Rekenhof committee. Madam Secretary of State, we would like to hold you to your political responsibility. You refer to the cooperation between the Federal Accountant and the Court of Auditors, the accounting system Fedcom, the establishment of an internal training course, the Fedcom School, and the improvement of the quality and reliability of the accounts. I have asked a lot of questions about this in committee. In the meantime, you have given us a comprehensive answer. I would also like to thank you for these detailed and clear answers, which is a very good and very correct way of working together. As an opposition, we will continue to follow up these files in the coming years. So no doubt be continued, because we will be discussing the accounts for 2019 in our committee as early as next week. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the total silence of Mr Leysen van Open Vld is particularly striking. In January 2020, in an unsuspecting period when there was still no mention of this purple-green government, he actually wrote a flaming piece of opinion on this subject. He has not even intervened in committee on the same subject. Let me quote from his piece of opinion, because Mr Leysen was right. He wrote: "A correct and transparent government accounting must be a no-brainer. Woe to the sloppy citizen who fills out his tax bill carelessly and late; have compassion on the manager who makes a jar of his annual balance sheet, the taxman will be unbearable and it will cost money, a lot of money. But if the Belgian State fails to publish proper financial statements this year, at most the admonitioning finger is waiting in the Blunderbook of the Court of Auditors, parliamentary questions and two newspaper articles." As far as Mr Leysen is concerned, it has remained with that one piece of opinion. We have not heard him on this subject in committee. Today he even sends his cat. Government or no government, Member of Parliament with or without government, it seems to make a difference. It may be true, said the Dutch poet Bredero.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u105	Madam President, I cannot remain silent when I hear all this. I will also speak on behalf of my colleague, Mr Leysen. I did indeed become chairman of the sub-committee of the Court of Auditors, but most recently. I have said from the very beginning, and everyone is witness to this, that we are going to assist the Secretary of State for the Budget by scrolling through the various SACAs and all the bodies or SPFs who are responsible for the accountability of their accounts, in order to encourage them to comply with the observations of the Court of Auditors. We have already scheduled the hearing of the Régie des Bâtiments at the end of March, and we will continue this work. A whole series of remarks by the Court of Auditors, if not serious, are important. On the other hand, there are others that are about things that cannot be accepted, including lack of inventory. Some FPSs do not use the right software to allow harmonization of the whole. These are more technical elements, but it is important to push them to do so. The government itself, the Minister of Budget and the previous Minister of Budget have put things in place and will continue to do so. But it's obvious that with the number of services, the number of civil servants who work, everything can't be settled in a knockout. So you have to push. It is pleased to see that in this work the Court of Auditors makes an excellent analysis and gives very precise advice. We will continue, in full intelligence with the Court of Auditors, to evolve the accounting system of the State in order to obtain this certification which, you are right, is very important in relation to our international visibility. We are not at all lax about that. We are parliamentarians and we are fully aware of the need to work on this and the need to support the responsible minister or secretary of state. That's what we're going to do. There's no point in yelling loudly! The important thing is not to hit hard, but to hit right. And we're just going to hit those who don't execute what the Court of Auditors is asking them to do. Madam President, it was just a little information I wanted to give. My colleague, Mr Leysen, is always so attentive to this. He said it in a carte blanche. Now we have to take account of the fact that we need to move things forward slowly - and we will do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u106	Madam President, we must not underestimate the challenge we face, and Mr Piedboeuf does not do so at all: the challenge is indeed enormous. We have come a long way, and the road we still have to go is still a long time. I would like to stress that if a citizen or an entrepreneur in this country were to invoke the arguments and condolences that are being invoked in relation to the tax authorities, then the tax authorities would be inexcusable. As an opposition, we are unbearable for the mistakes that are being made here. A citizen is not allowed to make it, an entrepreneur is not allowed to make it, and you cannot blame us, you may even welcome the fact that we will exert pressure and follow developments in the file closely. It must be done by the end of this legislature and by the end of this year, because by then the Court of Auditors will have to certify the accounts for 2020. We hold our hearts or it will work. The deadline is not long, but if all Members of this House work together, especially in the 'Rekenhof' committee, we can.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u107	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u108	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1701/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1701/3) The bill has 11 articles. The draft law has 11 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u109	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u110	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Vandenbroucke, refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u111	Madam President, dematerialisation is a parliamentary or official language for digitisation. The bill aims to make digital communication with the tax authorities the rule. Paper communication will be the exception. Digital communication becomes more or less mandatory for professionals and legal persons. We can agree with that. Digitisation is indeed the way forward. It's an evolution that can't be stopped anymore. Digitisation also offers many advantages, especially for professionals and legal entities. For example, VAT returns and corporate tax returns need to be digitally completed for a long time, which also brings a number of benefits to taxpayers. The built-in checks avoid a number of errors. There is also no longer any discussion about, for example, lost returns. Natural persons can still communicate on paper. They have the choice and can also return to their choice. This too is important, namely that this option and choice remain open to individuals. The Committee also made it clear that the choice of electronic communications is an opt-in. Citizens should therefore explicitly opt for electronic communications and not be forced into the digital domain. Anyone who uses paper and is ordinary should explicitly opt for a switch to digital communication. We also support this approach and approach. On the substance, therefore, we do not see any objections to the draft being approved. Nevertheless, I would like to make five comments. First of all, it is a large and far-reaching draft law which is very technical in nature. Moreover, there is no urgency whatsoever. The entry into force is envisaged before 1 January 2025. Nevertheless, an opinion was requested from the Council of State on 30 days. It was denied by the Minister, but it's true. The applicant for an opinion may opt for an opinion of the Council of State without delay, on 60 days, on 30 days or on five working days. However, the time limit chosen has an impact on the depth of the opinion. It would have been better, in our view, if no deadline had been set for the Council of State, which is indeed a possibility. In our view, an even more extensive examination by the Council of State would have been more useful for this technical draft law. Secondly, the right of choice between paper and electronic applies only to natural persons who are not professionals. The Council of State notes that this may be contrary to the principle of equality. The Minister disputes that and argues that legal persons and professionals are deemed to have the necessary computer tools. Admittedly, the distinction can be objectively justified. We can follow this reasoning for companies, professionals, large non-profit organisations and foundations, but not so much for small non-profit organisations. We thought, certainly because it is about a minister from CD&V circles, that a party like CD&V had an eye for the many small non-profit organisations that our country is rich. Small non-profit organisations do not always have the necessary knowledge and tools and we would have preferred small entities, within the meaning of the Company Code, to be treated as natural persons for the purposes of this regulation and to be able to make the declaration on paper. Thirdly, we currently have three deadlines for the submission of declarations in the personal income tax: one for taxable persons making the declaration on paper, one for taxable persons who make their own declaration via Tax-on-web and one for taxable persons submitting their declaration via an authorised representative. In the case of legal persons, companies and associations, the draft law provides for uniform legislation. However, these are not available for the declarations in the personal tax system. In the caselaw, the current regime is often considered incompatible with the principle of equality. We want to steer on a uniform date. That would have the advantage of clarity. Fourthly, it is a pity that the Minister is not here, but we would like to call on him to do so in committee in order to consult the professional groups and interest groups involved in this text, including the accountants and fiscalists, as well as the notaries, curators, lawyers, bailiffs and other numbers. We would also like to ask him to provide sufficient support for the users of the new eBox, so that they can certainly be supported by telephone or by other means in the initial phase in the event of technical problems with the eBox. I assume that the CD&V colleagues present here will send that message to the Minister. The fifth point we want to make is: be consistent as a government. Two weeks ago, we held a first discussion in committee on the securities tax, whether you like the Van Peteghemataks. This draft law states that the holder of securities must make the declaration. In principle, this declaration must be made electronically according to the draft law. And that is contrary to the legal text that we have to adopt here today. In the securities tax bill, the electronic declaration is the standard scheme, including for individuals, whereby the taxpayer ultimately has to opt-in if he chooses the paper route. That is contrary to what we have to approve here today. We would therefore like to call on the Minister to systematically incorporate the principles of this legislative text into future legislation: electronic for professionals, paper and electronic for citizens, with a revoking option for electronic choice. We are looking forward to the Minister's consistent action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u112	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the title of the draft law is not very exciting, but that does not mean that it is an insignificant bill. It is clearly taking the step towards further digitisation of Finance. This draft law ensures that communication between the FPS Finance and citizens, businesses and professionals can be done electronically and digitally via a secure electronic platform. This is an important and very necessary step in the further digitisation of Finance. This will also further work on what Mr Van Peteghem said in his policy statement. In fact, a large chapter is devoted to digitalisation, to ensure that as many things as possible are done in a smooth digital way. Citizens who do not have the means must also be protected. This has just been integrated into the draft law before us today. There is the opt-in system for private individuals, where correspondence and communication are still done in writing, unless one opts to do it electronically. A choice can be made in a convenient way. That choice can be revoked whenever it is necessary or necessary. On the other hand, there are professionals, companies and legal entities for which the rule will be to communicate by electronic means. In Belgium, non-profit organisations are an important sector, both in economic and social terms. The association landscape as we know it in Belgium is also very diverse, with smaller, larger and medium-sized non-profit organisations. In that non-profit-making landscape, digitalisation has already been used very clearly. This path has already been taken, primarily through the creation, which is very often done electronically, but also through a number of obligations inherent in a non-profit association, both small, medium-sized and larger non-profit organisations. This is, for example, the mandatory electronic registration in the UBO register. This can only be done electronically. For example, the compulsory declaration in the legal person's tax, which is still the tax most applicable to non-profit organisations, must be done digitally, electronically. The non-profit organisations that are subject to VAT and have to file a declaration must also do so digitally. As far as these non-profit organisations are concerned, the digital road has already gone, there is no turning back. However, this could be refined and this draft law offers opportunities for doing so. By communicating electronically, the things that are already mandatory can be nicely worked together. This allows structural communication with the non-profit organisations to be very clear, to be brought together and to be able to communicate very coherently. That is a good thing, and it is underestimated that it is not possible to deal with it. This does not alter the fact that it is very important for this law to be properly communicated. We have called on the Minister of Finance to do so in committee, and he has also replied in the affirmative. We need good communication with the citizens, because we need to encourage them to register electronically. There is also a need for good communication with companies, businesses and, indeed, with non-profit organisations. If this is done in a good way, with the necessary commitment, and one can also ask questions, then this draft law will help to move forward on the digital path that has already been taken. This can only benefit companies and non-profit organisations. We therefore support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u113	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u114	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1697/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1697/3) The bill has 229 sections. The draft law has 229 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u115	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u116	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Denis Ducrame, Florence Reuter, Marie-Christine Marghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u117	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this legislative proposal No. 1710, tabled by Mr Ducarme and Mrs Reuter of the MR Group, concerns the one-off extension of winter soldiers until 15 February. All parties agreed on the urgency of this. The justification for the bill is clear. The solders have started quite slowly. There is clearly less sales than previous years. So our merchants still have big stocks. This will give them more time to get rid of those stocks. The measure demonstrates common sense and enjoys broad support. This can also have a positive impact on consumer confidence. The extension of the solder period prevents a mass of people from looking for bargains and allows consumers to be better distributed, a good thing from a sanitary point of view. However, some members of the Economics Committee did not want to rush ahead and asked for written advice from all stakeholders. All opinions, including those of UNIZO, Mode Union, UCM, Comeos and Test Purchase, were positive. Ministers Dermagne and Clarinval and Secretary of State De Bleeker also publicly supported the proposal. As the sanitary situation is even safer, the Corona Commissioner may not consider it necessary to give an opinion on this. However, the exceptional and one-off nature of the procedure should be noted. This was also included in the legislative proposal after amendments by the MR Group. Even though the measure is a drop in the ocean for our merchants, all stakeholders have publicly expressed their satisfaction with it. The present proposal of the MR is also in line with previously approved legislative proposals of CD&V, Open Vld and the N-VA and even with amendments of the Flemish Interest. The members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs are pleased that, across opposition and majority, the proposal was adopted unanimously yesterday. This will give clarity and perspective to traders, who will be able to sell their stocks and now communicate that the solders will be extended.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it must be acknowledged that the extension of the period of sales for 15 days in February 2021 will not be the panacea for resolving the distress in which traders are in. As you know, traders can also after sales, unlike before sales, make promotions to ease their inventory. Of course, we interviewed the sector and this legislation does not meet the sector's main demand. Shopping for two for a longer time is still not possible for obvious reasons of health safety. We must also respect the health care staff by helping them save lives, by controlling contamination with strict rules, always necessary until the vaccine is sufficiently distributed. The Ecolo-Groen Group fully supports this initiative because we want to support local traders and businesses. We hope that this will enable them to pay for the supplies they have already received. We are indeed facing a risk of a domino effect. Traders have to pay their suppliers. They must also honour invoices to manufacturers and carriers. It is therefore important for us to allow them to communicate on the good business to be done. That is the meaning of this law and we wish them every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this text has been so much shared beyond the traditional divides, with an opposition that would even want to vote on it faster than part of the majority. Whatever! I think we have done a very good job in committee on a subject that matters to us all, namely the crisis that our traders and self-employed people are going through today. When I drafted this proposal in November, I did not know that it would be seized as it was by all colleagues. I really want to thank them. I would also like to thank Kathleen Verhelst for his very fair report on the work we have been able to produce in the Committee on the Economy over the last two weeks. Above all, I want to thank President Van Hecke, who has allowed us to stay in the nails in terms of deadlines. It was obviously essential if we were to meet the objective of starting this extension on 1 February. As we know, what is crossed in our shops by our independents is very heavy. On the one hand, they suffered closures at the end of last year and they still have large stocks of the winter season on their hands today. On the other hand, the balances, as we see, are not good. Beyond the restrictive measures on the way we do business today, there is still anxiety in our society. It is of course a matter of giving both traders and consumers a little more oxygen to allow them to go and do nice business until February 15th, but also for our business friends, to hope to gain a little more cash. Mrs Verhelst said this: this proposal is not going to fix everything. It is just a small plus and we naturally need, as Mr Vicar said, to remain humble, but this proposal will certainly be a plus. I really want to thank, as – I imagine – all my colleagues, the organisations representing the traders for the way in which they seized the case. In order to remain on time, they were asked to give an opinion very quickly. Both UNIZO and UCM, SNI, United Mode, Test Purchases and CSIPME gave a positive opinion. A number of elements were introduced throughout the debate, which was important. In addition, there was a need to ensure compliance with EU legislation in this area. Everything has been confirmed by the SPF Economy. With this proposal, we naturally respect the legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, it is interesting to see this kind of proposal coming from Parliament. We have discussed this proposal in committee. I will not once again demonstrate that an initiative to support our independents and traders can be taken by Parliament, beyond the traditional divides. All the opposition and majority parties have come together because it is a measure of common sense. I would like to conclude by thanking the Ministers. I thank David Clarinval for his support. It is on the front line, it is at the front line to provide useful support through a number of measures in favour of the self-employed. I also thank Minister Dermagne for his support. Madam President, I hope that there will be no surprise and that the proposal under consideration will be voted unanimously by this House to offer our traders a beautiful oxygen bubble. Good sale to everyone!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the authors of the legislative proposal, as this bill is logical and necessary and, moreover, it is well received. It is logical because it is parallel to the proposal on summer solders that we discussed in June 2020, and also because there was a clear demand from traders, a signal that is now translated into concrete actions. It is necessary because traders have had a dramatic period, while the coming period will continue to be difficult, and also because sales were dramatic in the first half of January. There is also a need because this proposal implicitly guarantees a distribution of visitors. As the author has just pointed out, the proposal was adopted unanimously in committee. On the other hand, I would like to reiterate my reservations about the timing of this legislative proposal. We often talk in Parliament about offering merchants a perspective. Last Wednesday at the committee meeting, the author said that this proposal would be on time, but in my opinion it would have been better if this proposal had been submitted before the start of the solders, which means that we should have dealt with it before Christmas in Parliament. It was actually to be expected that we would deal with this bill in Parliament. In last year's proposal, I tabled a number of amendments to meet the content of the legislative proposal and to look ahead to the January 2021 solder period, but my amendments were not taken into account at that time. However, they had given a better perspective to the traders. Today is 21 January, and basically it is nine days until the end of the bargain as it is now in the law. That's pretty late, of course. Anyway, done business doesn't take a turn. As mentioned above, this bill is not the great solution for traders, but it is a necessity to meet that bad period. Of course, we will also support this bill today. We await further debates in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs to develop a number of structural solutions for the revival of a number of sectors, including these.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the PTB Group also wanted to support this bill, which we hope will make it possible to make up for some of the losses of recent months. Even if we know that this extension will not solve all the problems in the sector, it will allow several things: firstly, to save a start to catastrophic balances. You know, my wife works for a big sign in Rive Gauche and has never seen any winter sales so little frequented. Balances represent a significant time in the year to bail out the caisses. This brings me to the second reason, namely the need for traders to have cash to pay fixed fees and suppliers. The last months and the closing period of November have, in fact, deprived the clothing brands of many recipes and increased their difficulties in honouring their different costs. Then, again in connection with the decline in attendance in recent months and the period of closure, there is an accumulation of stocks and a multitude of products that can only be sold in the near future as a result of the change in season. Finally, there is the health context which justifies such a proposal for at least two reasons: on the one hand, the longer the period of the balances and the more one avoids a concentration of the attendance and the increase of the contacts; on the other hand, one avoids Belgian consumers going to make their balances abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u123	Madam President, the arguments for the proposal have already been raised and the text has also been adopted unanimously in committee. As Mr Ducarme said, it gives the entrepreneurs some breathing space. At the same time, consumers will have a little more time to enjoy the solders, and that is a good thing. Another aspect, which is very important to my group, is that the proposal also offers the shoppers some breathing space. It is not obvious to them to be in a shop at these times and to alert consumers to the safety measures in force. This is sometimes accompanied by verbal or non-verbal aggression. I sincerely hope that the proposal will lead to a wider spread of customers and indeed provide breathing space for shoppers. I would like to thank the MR Group for the initiative, which we will, of course, support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u124	Madam President, we will support this text, even if the current legislation already allowed traders who wish to do so to continue to present their good deals after the official period of sales. I would point out that this is a small step, but that, on the other hand, for the self-employed and, in particular, the traders, great steps still have to be taken in this area. I hope that we can quickly reassess the situation and, above all, that decisions will be taken. The situation of the banks was mentioned earlier. Already several weeks ago, the cdH group, including Maxime Prévot's voice and mine, called on you to make strong decisions. I hope, minister, that you and the government as a whole – as it concerns several ministers – will take action beyond words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u125	Madam President, I wanted to thank colleagues for their proposed legislation, since it is the result of a consultation with representatives of the sector, but also because extending the period of sales until February 15 – and this, exceptionally for this year – will bring a real breath of oxygen to our traders, especially in the textile sector. These businesses, which were misguidedly described as 'non-essential' during the whole crisis, were not able to reopen until 1 December. It appears that traders, within a single month, were unable to sell their stocks as in other years. The month of December 2020 was, moreover, synonymous with a 20% drop in their turnover compared to the previous year, for the reasons we guessed and which were mentioned earlier: reduced social contacts, New Year's Eve reduced to its bubble, health rules that still surround shopping today. Our traders are therefore confronted with a surplus of rarely observed stocks and that it would be difficult for them to sell in a very small month. That is why extending the period of balances throughout the country amounts to offering them a cash bonus, especially in view of the balance sheet of these balances, for the time being, rather mixed. In addition, the balances started on a Monday – not a Saturday – to avoid the risk of an influx that would have been difficult to manage. This extension is also interesting from a health point of view, since it will have the effect of spreading over six weeks, instead of four, the clientele anxious to do good business – which, it must be admitted, is not negligible in these times of economic crisis. This will make it easier to respect the barriers and physical distance gestures; not to mention that traders themselves are obliged to enforce them in their stores – a difficulty that is added to all others. I therefore hope that this measure will boost the sales of our traders and therefore our economy, but also boost the morale of the population whose recreational activities are, in this case too, extremely reduced because of the health rules. Today, despite the many sanitary rules surrounding him, shopping has become this rare and precious moment when one exchanges with his neighbours, with his merchants, but also where one agrees to buy warm clothes in which one feels well, physically and mentally. Of course, this bill alone will not solve the many problems our traders face. The vote on this bill therefore does not relieve us of our responsibility to relaunch the sector in a structural way. Extending the period of the balances is aid for the sector, yes, but one-off aid. To extend the period of the balances is therefore not to revive itself, but rather a kind of sparadrap which will not solve in the medium to long term the problem of fixed charges, of the payment of bank loans, of these banks which do not intend to assume their role in avoiding bankruptcies. We referred to this earlier in the context of topical issues. However, for the reasons I have just mentioned, my party will support this measure, such as those that it has been able to support so far alongside the government, whether it is a government of special powers or a full-fledged government. As we keep repeating, my party is part of a constructive opposition process. It goes without saying that we support and will continue to support any action the government will take to help independents and traders in times of health crisis, but also in times of economic crisis, which is already present today and which will unfortunately be even more acute in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u126	Colleagues, may I ask those who are talking in the room to turn down a tone or get out of the room so that we can hear our colleagues well?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u127	Madam President, it is rare in this House for a text to be unanimous. It happens, but not every day. If this text is unanimous, it is because we all have at heart, in one way or another, to send a positive signal to those who are suffering from the health crisis that we are experiencing. Among these people, there is no doubt that the self-employed, the traders, those for whom a decline in turnover can jeopardize the economic future of the company, can endanger a social or family situation and can even, for many of them, lead to a situation of precariousness. Yes, we must support, of course, in one way or another, the best and most we can, the traders and the self-employed facing this health crisis. It is true that this will not solve everything. We also need to discuss with the sector how best to act. Indeed, announcing an extension of the balances too fast may also cause them to lose the Valentine's peak on which they rely a lot. At the same time, things have to be organized, the legislator has to legislate. We do it and we take our responsibilities. I would therefore like to thank the project proponents and the members of the government who supported this initiative. As far as the Socialist Group is concerned, I would like to thank our esteemed colleague Mrs Leslie Léoni, who took part in the debates in committee. In essence, we must ensure that we remember our national motto, "Union is strength". I believe that in times like those we are living, it is more relevant than ever. It is therefore a signal, a measure that makes it clear to those who are suffering during this crisis that we are at their side.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u128	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u129	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1710/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1710/4) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u130	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u131	This is the result of the naturalization vote. (1698/2) This is the result of the secret vote on naturalizations. (1698/2) Aantal stemmen 96 Number of voters Valid votes 96 Votes valables Perfect majority 49 Absolute majority All naturalizations obtained an absolute majority. The vote on the proposed naturalization laws will take place in a moment. All naturalisations have received the absolute majority. The proposal of naturalisation laws will be voted on shortly. The Naturalisations Commission's proposal is divided into four parts (A, B, C and D) each containing several articles to be adopted. The proposal of the Committee on Naturalizations consists of four parts (A, B, C and D), each comprising several articles to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u132	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u133	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u134	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u135	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part D) will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part D) will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u136	By letter of 13 January 2021, the Attorney General of the Ghent Court of Appeal provided documents in order to enable the Chamber to authorize possible prosecution of one of our colleagues under article 59 of the Constitution. By letter of 13 January 2021, the Attorney General shall send documents to the Court of Appeal in Ghent to enable the Chamber to allow, in application of Article 59 of the Constitution, any prosecutions against one of our colleagues. In accordance with Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the documents are referred to the Prosecution Committee. In accordance with Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the documents shall be sent to the Commission for Persecutions. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u137	Mr Kris Peeters, Member of the European Parliament, was appointed Vice-President of the European Investment Bank on 11 January 2021. Mr Kris Peeters, Member of the European Parliament, became Vice-President of the European Investment Bank on 11 January 2021. Given the incompatibility of these terms, he is automatically resigning as a Member of the European Parliament. Since these mandates are incompatible, he is therefore automatically resigning as a Member of the European Parliament. The first alternate to replace him was Mr. Tom Vandenkendelaere. The election of the latter as an alternate member of the European Parliament was validated by our Assembly during the sitting on 27 June 2019. The first successor to replace him is Mr Tom Vandendendelaere. The election of the latter as an alternate member of the European Parliament was approved at the plenary session of our assembly on 27 June 2019. The person concerned fulfils the eligibility conditions laid down in Articles 1 and 41 of the Law of 23 March 1989 on the election of the European Parliament. The person concerned fulfils the eligibility conditions laid down in Articles 1 and 41 of the Law of 23 March 1989 concerning the election of the European Parliament. I therefore propose that you introduce Mr Tom Vandenkendelaere as an effective member of the European Parliament. I therefore propose that Mr Tom Vandonderdelaere be proposed as a permanent Member of the European Parliament. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u138	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 January 2021 and at the request of the authors, I propose that the following bill be referred to the National Defence Committee: the bill (Mr Kris Verduyckt, Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mrs Vicky Reynaert) establishing an analytical framework for assessing Belgian military missions abroad, No. 326/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 January 2021 and at the request of the proposers, I propose that you refer the following legislative proposal to the Defence Committee: the legislative proposal (Mr Kris Verduyckt, Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Vicky Reynaert) establishing a review framework for the evaluation of Belgian foreign military missions, No. 326/1. This proposal had previously been sent to the Committee on External Relations. This bill was previously sent to the External Relations Committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u139	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u140	Madam President, I would like to ask the urgency of the motion for a resolution. 1745/1. Colleagues, since the outbreak of the corona crisis in March, tour operators had to cancel travel massively, reducing their activities to almost zero. Travelers got a so-called coronavoucher. This temporarily suspended the compulsory reimbursement of package travel and made it possible to provide the consumer with a voucher for one year which would allow him to book a new journey at a later date. Within two months, one year after the issue of the first vouchers, the travel sector will start to pay back. In view of the crisis in the sector, many are unable to do so and are in danger of bankruptcy. These SMEs need public support and consumers need to be sure that they get their money back. This proposal to set up a coronavoucherbank will enable us to respond to this. In view of the dates mentioned, there is no longer an option for tallows, and that is why we are asking for the urgency of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u141	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u142	The urgency is also requested for the legislative proposal No. 1754/1 by Mr Björn Anseuw and his associates to support employers in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic in the activation and training of temporarily unemployed workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u143	Madam President, the essence of this bill is, of course, that employers should be able to train and train their temporarily unemployed workers informally. In this case, the worker retains the temporary unemployment benefit, but the employer must match the difference with the net wage. Given the circumstances, this certainly offers opportunities to make the corona state useful. So it is a clear corona measure, it responds to an urgent need on the part of employers and that is why urgent treatment in committee is more practical and we call on all of you to support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u144	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u145	The urgency was requested for the motions that were introduced in connection with the inquiry of Ms. Annick Ponthier, who was exhausted in today's sitting. A statement of urgency was requested for the motions tabled in connection with Mrs Annick Ponthier's speech, which was dealt with at today's sitting. I submit this request to you. I'd like to make this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u146	Madam President, if there is no urgency, the vote is postponed until next week without opening a new debate. Is that correct? [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u147	In that case, I turn to my colleagues. We can vote next week, unless there is a problem, otherwise you have to change the voting table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u148	There's really no logistical concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u149	We therefore consider that there is no urgency and therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u150	These inquiries were developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate of 12 January 2021. These interviews were held at the public meeting of the Energy, Environment and Climate Commission of 12 January 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 59/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Kurt Ravyts; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Séverine de Laveleye. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 59/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Kurt Ravyts; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Séverine de Laveleye. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at the European Summit on 11 December 2020, an EU target of a net reduction in CO2 compared to 1992 of at least 55% was agreed on. Moreover, this objective will be enshrined in a proposal for a European climate law and will therefore be made enforceable. The Flemish Interest is not very enthusiastic about this. After all, we fear that the objective will not be really feasible and that it will not have the most social consequences. In the meantime, almost EUR 20 billion has been passed on to the electricity bill at regional and federal level since 2002, of the support policy for renewable energy at the time. You will hear it correctly: EUR 20 billion, which must be coughed up by energy consumers in the broadest sense of the word. Now that the debate on the interpretation of the inclusion of a number of legitimate Flemish concerns in the European Climate Agreement has remained unblemished, the motion before us wants to focus on the future. At the next European Summit on the concrete implementation of the climate agreement in defining the country- and region-specific objectives, in the intra-Belgian negotiations and in the review of the Belgian National Energy and Climate Plan, we ask the Federal Government to draw up a viable and affordable scenario for the regions. In doing so, greater responsibilities must also be taken within federal powers, but without increasing the tax burden on consumers and businesses. Finally, we also call on the European Council and the European Commission to insist that there should be explicit scope for nuclear energy as well as at least one of the transition technologies for making the climate objectives to be achieved together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u152	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u153	Yes 83 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u154	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 13 January 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 13 January 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 75/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 75/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u155	Yes 83 Yes No. 49 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u156	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u157	Yes 100 Yes No. [[37]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (118/6) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (118/6) (Ladies Anneleen Van Bossuyt and Katleen Bury and Mr Peter Buysrogge, Mr Björn Anseuw and Mr Peter Mertens voted like their political groups)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u158	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u159	Yes 110 Yes No. [[28]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1701/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1701/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u160	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u161	Yes 131 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 143 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1697/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1697/4) Reason for abstention? [[(Non]] [[)]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u162	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u163	Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1710/5) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1710/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u164	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u165	Yes 121 Yes No. [[17]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part A). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part A). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (Mr Peter De Roover, like his group, voted)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u166	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u167	Yes 128 Yes No. [[17]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part B). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part B). It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u168	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u169	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part C). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part C). It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u170	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u171	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part D). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part D). It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u172	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u173	Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip084x.u174	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, January 28, 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 28 January 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
