ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u2	Colleagues, as I mentioned earlier this morning, news in several areas, towns and villages is absolutely dramatic and evolving from hour to hour. Once again, I would like to reiterate the House's solidarity with those affected by the devastating floods that are hitting our country. I would like to express our support for the victims, their families and their families. Finally, we would like once again to express our support and thanks to the various emergency services, to Defence, to the various authorities in the country and to all the volunteers who are doing everything they can to help the affected people. Thank you also for European solidarity. It is always very difficult to express oneself when you see the devastating images that circulate. Ladies and gentlemen, however, we must resume our work, encouraging all those on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u3	I have before me a request from a group in this House to hold a topical debate on the floods in the country and the hunger strike for undocumented people. It is therefore the flood that is affecting our country today and the hunger strike of the people without papers. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u4	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, dThe summer of 2021 or what should go ahead will unfortunately not be forgotten by many people. Maintaining rain caused a lot of rivers and streams to come from their shores and that whole streets and neighborhoods are white. Apart from the enormous material damage, there are unfortunately also fatalities to be regretted. The images from Pepinster, Spa but also from the Voerstreek and other parts of Limburg are clearly hallucinating and each of them creates personal dramas. Village cores are evacuated, the water is sometimes up to 2 meters high and people are waiting for help on their roofs. If we can believe the latest messages, we'll be looting in the meantime. Long-term measures are insisting, and that is what it stands for. Forgive me for saying that I am in no doubt about it. I am thinking, among other things, of the softening of large areas and, above the surface, of sealed streams and rivers. At the moment, we need to focus on short-term solutions and ensure that we switch quickly. First of all, the victims who are evacuated and, above all, the people whose homes have become completely uninhabitable must be taken care of. Do you have any eyes on that? Is there enough capacity for this? How will this be organised? Secondly, there is the demand for regional disaster funds. Can the federal level provide financial support to ensure that the worst needs are met as quickly as possible and that victims do not have to wait endlessly before they are given the means to rebuild their lives? Finally, Madam Minister, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you the question of your predecessor, Minister Jambon, for the abolition of civil protection. Disasters like this make it clear that civil protection is indispensable in this country, and that its destruction was a wrong decision. Will you therefore take steps to reverse that disastrous decision of the past?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u5	Madam President, Prime Minister, this is a national disaster. They're horrible images I've never seen before. Maybe they remind you of the floods of the 1953 disaster. Full congregations are flooded, houses are collapsed, people are fleeing their roofs. Several deaths have also been reported. The water keeps rising. There's one case going on today. Our support and solidarity is now essential. I would therefore like to ask you about the role of the federal government in this. Emergency services, Civil Protection and the military have been mobilized. I see that help is being offered from West Flanders, that the Antwerp fire department is also active in Liège. That is solidarity, and that is how it must be in this country. People now need immediate help, also in order to get the damage compensated. Colleagues, let's do the best we can as a government. Are we gonna close our eyes any longer for what's really going on? How many more floods? How many more fires? How many more heat waves? How many people lose their homes? Climate warming is a major climate disruption. Green policies are more important than ever. When are we finally gonna realize this together? Those questions must also be asked today. The European Commission has proposed a very ambitious Fit for 55 climate plan. So there's hope. There are things possible. There are still politicians who think in the long term, and that is very encouraging. Prime Minister, I would ask you to fully embrace these plans, fully support them with our country and with this new federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u6	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a terrible disaster! This morning, I went to Liège. What is happening is not normal: cars fly in every direction, houses no longer stand like in Pepinster. This morning, we were closing the doors in the neighborhood of Saint-Léonard at Chênée, because it was announced that the Meuse will overflow this afternoon. What are we gonna do? In this kind of difficult time for the Nation, solidarity remains the first thing to emphasize. It is everywhere – Flemish, Brussels, Walloons. There is also solidarity in Flanders, also in Limburg and Flemish Brabant there are problems. Let us stop this division, we are all in this together. What touched me this morning was the solidarity of Antwerp's firefighters. The fire department of Antwerp has immediately come to Liège, from the heart. That's real solidarity. It is this solidarity that we need today. I applaud all the Antwerp firefighters who have come to Liège. I can tell you that the people of Liege are affected by this solidarity. Young people, old people in the countryside and in the city, they're all affected today. This solidarity must go further because there is an urgent need. And the debates will come. Is it normal for such floods to occur? What is the meaning of concrete policy at all? What is the role of global warming in these files? These are debates we must be able to have. Agriculture at home. But what matters today is what we're going to do to help people, and that's what we're going to do in an emergency. Prime Minister, what does the federal government intend to do? What support will be given to our firefighters? What reinforcement will be provided for civil protection, rather than dividing and closing barracks? What urgent reinforcement will be given to save lives? We cannot let go of what is currently happening in Pepinster, Verviers, Limburg and Flemish Brabant. Solidarity can help us out of this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u7	Prime Minister, Madam Minister, these are visions of apocalypse which, since yesterday, have led to exceptional floods, in many places in Wallonia and in Limburg, a chaos which, alas, is accompanied by mourning, since at least five of our compatriots have lost their lives and the human balance is still in danger of getting worse. The diluvian rains, the floods of rivers propel thousands of families into distress; the affected citizens, some of whom, the house has collapsed completely, and who need help at the height of the severity of the weather. According to the Royal Meteorological Institute (RMI), it has never been seen in 50 or even 100 years. For example, on the axis running from the Hainaut boot to Liège, via Namur and the northern part of the province of Luxembourg, the MRI recorded cumulations of more than 40 mm of rain over 24 hours, i.e. 40 l/m2. In places, cumulations of the order of 100 l/m2 were recorded. The Directorate-General for Waterways in Wallonia indicates that the entire province of Liège, and a large part of the province of Luxembourg, Namur and Walloon Brabant, are in the red phase of flood alert. The governors of these provinces have already activated the provincial crisis management phases. The situation in Limburg is worrying. Our firefighters, our civil protection, our military and our hospitals are all mobilized, ladies and gentlemen, but also the municipal services, the local elected representatives and the European Union's civil protection mechanism have been activated. As I said, the images are impressive, striking, and let's say clearly, the situation is critical. Behind these images, thousands of fellow citizens are in great distress. Among them, traders, independents who, already heavily affected by the covid crisis, risk this time simply losing everything. Prime Minister, Minister, they need all the strength of the nation. What is the state of affairs at this stage throughout the country? What measures are being implemented by the federal government to help our fellow citizens, the provinces, the municipalities that face this bad weather? Many people are in distress, including psychological distress, facing this atrocious situation. What can we do at our level to try to answer their questions and concerns?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u8	Mr Prime Minister, Madam Minister of the Interior, first of all, I would really like to welcome the titanic work that hundreds of women and men are doing to save human lives because in some parts of the country we are in this extreme situation. We must save children, women, men who are trapped from rising waters while waiting for a helicopter or even a boat to hope to get out safely from home. Firemen, military, police, ambulances, civil protection, everyone is mobilized. When nature is unleashed, we measure the fragility of our lives. The first aid workers, despite the mobilization of all the living forces, are out of date. My throat is tied. I come from Luxembourg, which, like Liège, like Verviers, Rochefort, Hotton, Marche, is experiencing extremely difficult moments. Your government is in reinforcement. Your colleague, the Minister of Defence, Ms.Dedonder, has already sent military personnel to assist the firefighters. We welcome this approach of assistance to the nation. Madam Minister, today you have activated the European Union's civil protection mechanism, which makes it possible to appeal to other countries for specific support needs. Can you tell us the scope of such a mechanism? How will you support local and regional authorities to cope with the scale of the disaster? How will you support these women and men who give everything to save lives?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u9	Thank you for these questions. I think I speak on behalf of everyone here when I express our condolences to all those who have been severely affected by this catastrophe. It is clear that we all feel very small and vulnerable to this brutal force of nature. We've seen images that were absolutely apocalyptic. Let us not forget that, behind these images that affect us, there is a lot of human suffering. We think in particular of people who are in very difficult conditions, their loved ones and those who try to do their utmost to help. Many people see their homes, their homes and the work of a lifetime ravaged by water in minutes. They didn't expect this to happen so brutally. Our thoughts go to all those affected, their families and their loved ones. The Minister of the Interior, who will reply in addition, is in permanent contact with the National Crisis Centre and the Governors. She looks at almost minute a minute where additional federal support is possible. In the meantime, the Secretary of Defense has done the same. We are also in contact with our neighbouring countries and other countries to see what additional resources we could make available. Indeed, Mr Hedebouw, as you have mentioned, we see an enormous effort of solidarity in our country and in our neighbouring countries. Solidarity has been established between emergency services, firefighters, civil protection and local authorities. Everyone is doing the most today, and this is our first priority: helping and saving people. Many people are in distress. I would like to express my gratitude to all those who are active on the ground now and who are likely to be active for a certain period of time. In some places, the situation is not yet improving; on the contrary, it may get worse. The King and Minister Forlords will be on the scene this afternoon, to express our support to the affected and to all those who today give the best of themselves to help and save as many people as possible. Of course, we also want to assure them of our solidarity. Finally, many stakeholders have indicated that what we are seeing here today is something we have not experienced in recent decades. I certainly do not want to anticipate the scientific analysis that will have to be made, but the IPCC, the United Nations Climate Panel, has repeatedly indicated that we are going to face more and more extreme weather phenomena, both extreme drought and the extreme rainfall that we are seeing today. That expectation has existed for a number of years. I repeat, let's not anticipate the analysis. The federal government takes these climate phenomena seriously. We have already taken action and will continue to do so. But today, what matters is to do the utmost to save people, families who are in a very difficult situation. Finally, I would like once again to welcome the national and international solidarity that has emerged in an attempt to do everything possible, and to thank all those who have mobilized.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u10	Colleagues, it is indeed terrible what is happening now. We see some images, but what does it have to be to get it all out of hand suddenly, to have to fight his house, his memories and in the meantime to get safe and dry? It goes without saying that the situation is very serious. At the moment, residents, visitors, tourists and aid workers are fighting the devastating power of the water. I therefore think it is right that all our attention and all our efforts should go to them in the first place. The questions that are raised here today in Parliament are even louder on the ground. It is there that we must commit ourselves. I myself try to do so by maintaining permanent contact through the Crisis Centre with the governors and all the emergency services on the ground, which provide support wherever necessary. Our first thoughts go out to the victims, the families and friends of the victims and all those who have suffered material damage. As the Prime Minister has just announced, the King and I will visit the affected region in order to encourage the inhabitants and encourage the emergency services. Over the last few hours, incredible cooperation has been set up by the fire services from all over the country, civil protection, relief and defence services. They fight against the water with man and power. I do not need to hide the fact that this sometimes happens at the risk of one's own security. The provincial governors have also done what is needed over the last few hours and all night, and they will of course receive maximum support from the federal government. The National Crisis Centre, the General Directorate for Security and Prevention closely monitor the situation. As a number of speakers and the Prime Minister have just mentioned, there has been an incredibly strong solidarity, in which many fire brigades from Antwerp and Limburg, East and West Flanders and other provinces have spontaneously and voluntarily delegated their people and resources to help where necessary. Civil Protection has also spared no effort to provide material. This morning, you had a question on this matter, and the national coordination hub for logistical support met in order to coordinate the use of resources even better and to allocate the available material to the best possible extent. These are boats, divers, helicopters, drones and other equipment, which must be used in a coordinated and efficient way. Of course this will also be followed, because the situation changes from hour to hour, even from minute to minute. Fortunately, our country's commitment and solidarity are particularly strong. However, it became clear last night that this was not enough to counter the unseen water pollution. That is why I activated the European Union Civil Protection Mechanism at 11.30 p.m. last night, providing a number of flood rescue using boats and rescue helicopters from various rescue services in European countries. We have also increased the demand for helicopters, because it is all hands on deck to help and even save as many people as possible. We have received several offers in response to our request. Those of the Flood Rescue Using Boats (FRUB), France, Austria, Luxembourg and Italy were accepted. We also received the offer of helicopters from France and Italy, which can be used today. Other countries, such as Germany, are in the process of assessing the possibility of providing us with helicopters. I have personally contacted the competent ministers of our neighbouring countries to support these requests for assistance. Despite the fact that their border regions are also affected by the floods and that they also need their national resources, there is great solidarity. I'm very grateful. At the time when we are talking, the situation is still extremely precarious. We can already conclude from the images that human suffering and material damage will be particularly great. I closely monitor the situation and ask everyone to spare no expense or effort to help people and save families. In order to ensure coordination and to consolidate aid, I have therefore just formally announced the federal phase, which will allow coordination to proceed as well as possible. Of course, there were already extensive cooperation and maximum federal support. However, given the spread to other provinces, we have decided to announce the federal phase. We have to go through this together. We must use our help and strength against the washing water. It is only by working together that we can give the best possible answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u11	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. But from your answer, Prime Minister, we are not making much progress. It excels in nothingness. You say nothing about the shelter and nothing about the financial resources that you can meet the people who are suffering at the moment. That's a real disgrace in a situation like this. The most important thing is that the families affected can now be properly addressed as soon as possible and that the first needs can be met immediately. Those people urgently need help now. Madam Minister, in addition to my condolences to all those affected, I would also like to express my thanks and respect to all the emergency services and, above all, to the soldiers who are currently on the ground to help the people. Again it is they who stand in the front line, serving the people. Again, it is they who must take over the tasks of the former Civil Protection. They are all heroes, and it is time for this government to stand in front of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u12	I do not know which government you have listened to, Mrs Ponthier, but in the answers given by the Prime Minister and the Minister I have heard a great deal of commitment and above all the maximum use of the resources available to our country. It is not with this little Question Time in Parliament that we will help the people. The emergency situation is very concrete and threatening. While you replied, the dramatic reports were mainly from Liege. Prime Minister, it is good that you have also devoted a number of sentences to global warming. Those who still believe that global warming is a far-from-my-bed show can explain it to the people in Liège, Verviers, Spa, Limburg. Climate warming is frighteningly close. It is therefore high time to roll out the solutions. On behalf of my group, I would like to conclude with a big thank you to all the emergency services that currently give the best of themselves in the affected areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u13	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. It will indeed require a great deal of resources. I hear there's a need for sandbags in the very short term. Civil protection tells us that it is no longer its responsibility and that we will have to discuss again the competences of the public security services in our country. Let us learn from this disaster in terms of public services. Local and provincial officials and firefighters are present today and they are seen to be useful! When there is no disaster, we talk about austerity, but we see today that they are necessary. Prime Minister, you are right to link up with IPCC studies. There's a problem, and it's no coincidence. There is a problem of global warming. Nature is exhausted because of our economic system, and that is in our face today. Urgent action must be taken, whatever the cost.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u14	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, cataclysm is confirmed from minute to minute: after Verviers, Theux, Pepinster, Spa, Huy, Marchin, Angleur, to name but a few, it is now the city of Liège that calls on residents to leave the city. This is dramatic, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of my group, I think first of all, with great emotion, of the families of the first five victims who tragically lost their lives. Words are derisory, of course, but I extend our deepest sympathy to them. I am also thinking of the thousands of people affected. You are right, Prime Minister, for many, it is the memories and labor of a life that are swallowed up. Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior, the current priority is, of course, to make the inhabitants safe. Our gratitude goes to our soldiers, our firefighters, the Civil Protection, the police who are at work. Then comes the collapse and the terrible observation of the damage, and of course the debate on the measures to be taken in the context of global warming. The federal state must - obviously - lend a hand to the municipalities, the provinces and the Walloon Region. It is in adversity that the national motto makes sense. It is in adversity that, more than ever, union makes strength. I am relieved to learn, minister, that the national emergency phase has been triggered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u15	Prime Minister, Minister, I note that the government deploys all the men and women of the first-aid service and all the means necessary to deal with it. I would like to pay tribute to the courage of the citizens, to the fundamental momentum of solidarity between neighbours, the inhabitants who open their doors to welcome families without housing. It can really be said that, in the face of the crises that we have been going through for a year, solidarity is a value that remains so essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u16	Baking and baking rain, stormy weather, huge floods, houses that collapse and people who die: the drama is enormous. The storm really is causing a huge disaster. The N-VA Group wishes to express its support for the victims and to express its deep gratitude to all those who help, all the aid workers, the fire brigade, civil protection and the military, also thanks to the local authorities who also play an extremely important role and function in this regard. Prime Minister, it's been a long year. We've seen a lot of shit with corona, but it doesn't look like that shit's gonna stop. On Tuesday we received the report from the Monitoring Committee. Our top officials say it's not right. The budget is deeply reddened by corona with a number of expenditures, but the problem is much deeper than that. The ageing population is coming. There are still far too few people working, especially in Wallonia and Brussels. The nuclear power plants will be closed, which will provide an additional invoice. There are real problems with the budget and we cannot wait. We should be actively working on that. It used to be and the budget negotiations started in July. However, we are surprised to learn that this will not be the case now. Your government does not plan to discuss the budget until the end of September. We sincerely believe that this is too late. It looked different for a couple of months. In Parliament, there were rumors that you would come up with a summer deal, with a series of socio-economic reforms. Unfortunately, you haven't been able to force that deal. You have been in the government's cockpit as Deputy Prime Minister for nine years now, so you have a lot of experience. Do you really think it would be wise to wait until September to start working on the budget? Mrs De Bleeker does not see the plans of the Minister for Pensions, Mrs Lalieux, nor of the Minister for Labour, Mr Dermagne. Do you get to see those plans by now?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u17	Mr Loones, let me begin by saying that I share your concern about the sustainability of our public finances. It's a concern of all of us. We're from an economic hurricane, as you said. Because all the governments in our country have joined forces, we have managed to preserve our economic fabric and prosperity as well as possible. This approach was necessary. This approach was different from the approach to the financial crisis. We have borne the consequences of the financial crisis of 2008 for seven years. It took seven years for our prosperity to reach its pre-crisis level again. Thanks to the approach of our country's governments, we will once again be at the same level of prosperity as before the outbreak of the health crisis at the beginning of next year. That is important, because it is the economic fabric that allows people to recreate growth, that people have a job, that a government has revenue and that one can avoid that a government would have too much spending. Just as the economic recovery was a collective effort, reducing the deficit and our debt will also be a collective effort of all governments in our country. The federal government will certainly take responsibility for this. You know very well the content of our coalition agreement. There is a fixed effort of 0.2 % of GDP agreed each year. Above that, there is a variable effort that depends on economic recovery and economic growth. You've been following national politics for a long time. You are well aware that all kinds of working groups will start work as soon as the monitoring committee figures are available. In this way, we use exactly the same methods as previous governments. Decisions on reforms to get more people working, for example, or to control and control our governments' budgetary expenditure, take place during the months of August and September. The budget is due to be submitted on 15 October. In terms of timing, we do not use any method other than that of the previous governments. I share your concern about the sustainability of our public finances, but the concern that we would be moving slower than the previous governments is not at all correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u18	Madam President, Prime Minister, you have also been part of governments that have managed to work in the summer. The tax shift and the job deal are definitely in the summer. Your purple-green government was set up at its start. It has had to go too fast and at the end there has been some gossiping, especially as regards the budget. We had the debate on that half-A4 that looked like nothing. I am sorry that you are not taking lessons from this and that you are falling into that trap again. You know that this budget must be there on 15 October. Why don't you take your time to prepare that well? You also know that the gossip becomes when important decisions have to be made at the last minute. You have a chance to correct the mistakes you made at the start of your government, but you don't. That's too bad, because you're not just missing an opportunity, you're missing the opportunity to show ambition. You really have a credibility problem. According to the National Bank, your budget is 4 billion wrong. The European Commission says that public debt will rise sooner, while you pretend it will fall. According to the Ageing Committee, the peak in the ageing population due to your measures will last for another 10 years. Look at the social chord. Your Secretary of State for the Budget even says that she does not know how much that agreement costs, but she does sign it. We expect better, we expect more ambition from this government and all taxpayers should have that respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u19	Prime Minister, Minister, like everyone else, first of all I have a thought for the victims of the terrible floods that are shaking our country and for all the civil security forces that are helping them. Unfortunately, next to this disaster, we must continue to stand up against the covid as well. The threat of a fourth wave is growing around the world, in our neighbours, and so in our home. In France, President Macron has just announced drastic measures, including mandatory vaccination of healthcare workers and the obligation to present a health pass for a series of activities. The Netherlands ordered a partial closure of the Horeca and banned shows. British hospitals postpone non-emergency care. Travel destinations popular with our compatriots, such as Spain and Portugal, return in red. What about Belgium? In Belgium, we look at the vaccination figures. We think we're one of the right students for once – which is true – and we find motivations there so we don't do much for now. We are thinking about the immunization obligation of the health care sector by giving us time. I sincerely fear that this concern is a mistake and that there is an urgent need. The very contagious delta variant circulates with us and will be dominant, if it is not already. Contaminations are rising sharply and it is not clear how this early exponential curve may not result in an increase in hospitalizations if we fail to vaccinate a large number of undecided people. What does the government expect if the situation gets worse? Is there a plan? Will we finally be able to avoid closures of entire sectors? Are you considering the possibility of using a health pass given the proportion of people vaccinated at home? With regard to mandatory vaccination of caregivers, I have heard the decision of the Ministers of Health to opt for better awareness at this time. How can we go further than we already do? What about the joint action plan that has been announced? What can be done to respond to hospitals that ask to move to a higher stage? Shouldn't we be more assertive, at least for staff in nursing and nursing homes who attend a particularly exposed audience and whose vaccination rate is not optimal?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u20	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, it is true that there is a crisis in the crisis that makes the situation even more terrible, with the Flood and all the people affected. Nevertheless, covid-19 is still well present with indicators that show significant virus circulation. What is happening in the background is very predictable, as we have been monitoring the situation of the delta variant for several weeks. This variant presents a 50% higher risk of transmission than a virus, more virulent with 2.5 times more hospitalizations according to international data. It was obviously expected. In view of the above, we are again late, while our defence lines could and should have been strengthened for several weeks. This is the case with vaccination, where a number of questions need to be asked. In fact, 600,000 people over the age of 45 have still not received any doses of vaccination, although they are known to be the most vulnerable to this delta variant. One million people are raised without any dose of vaccine when people are also included with co-morbidity factors. In this respect, I think it is possible to convince even more and even better. What actions can be taken in terms of proximity to meet these people who are still unvaccinated and yet very fragile? The same is true for controlling contamination. Do you find it normal that there is a lack of screening, while people should be tested when returning from red areas or after having been in contact with positive people? In terms of tracing, we are still not looking for the famous super-contaminators, which are still responsible for 80% of the contamination. The same is true for the effectiveness of the isolation of the positives. Finally, with regard to ventilation, the return to school with unvaccinated children will be crucial. All at stake is the deployment of emergency ventilation measures in schools and crèches. We're able to control the epidemic. What are your actions? There are too many procrastinations between the levels of power.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u21	Prime Minister, Minister, the Codeco is postponed for a few days and that is quite normal under the circumstances. Of course, we are all in solidarity with the victims of this dramatic situation. The Consultation Committee will take place in a few days. That is true, we were probably expecting some relaxation or even the removal of certain restrictions aimed at combating the spread of the virus. In view of the numbers, the increase in the number of new contaminations and the anxiety generated by this delta variant, enthusiasm is greatly reduced. Other countries, notably the Netherlands or France, have decided to tighten the screw and are taking drastic measures. The case of France is quite telling since it will soon be forbidden, without a corona pass, to enter a restaurant, a café but also places of leisure or cultural and this, from twelve years old and from August. That is indeed extremely drastic. The concern in our home is gaining ground in the face of these measures in our neighbours. My questions are quite simple and relate to three specific aspects. First, with regard to travel, there appears to be a lack of controls on travellers. According to Commissioner Corona, only one in three travellers would really meet the requirements of vaccination, a negative test or proof of cure. Will these controls be strengthened? Secondly, with regard to the Corona Pass, an agreement had to be reached on major events. The standard of 5,000 to 10,000 people outside was cited. Are these figures still relevant? Do you confirm to me that it will not take a Corona pass for the Horeca as is the case in France, Greece or Austria? Finally, with regard to the compulsory vaccine for health-care workers, we have 73% of the health-care staff who are partially vaccinated. Will vaccination be mandatory? The Minister of Health recently announced that it was not a matter of making it mandatory and rather referred to an action plan. What about it? Is the obligation still in place if the expected results are not there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u22	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, we have had a time of greater peace of mind among the citizens, because there has been a decline in the numbers of infections and hospitalisations. However, we are now seeing an increase in neighbouring countries. It is also felt that our people are getting nervous and that it lives not only with politicians but also with our citizens. I see today that, unfortunately, there are still uncertainties with regard to travel. We have seen young people fly back on a full plane to our country. It is then normal for people to get nervous and no longer know what is right about the coronapas and the rules about it. I regret the fact that young people are always blamed in the press. Sometimes we must also dare to look at ourselves and we ourselves must dare to see that the rules may not be so clear to everyone, Prime Minister and Minister. I see you shaking no, but it is true that these young people have flown back despite a corona passport, which should normally function. Don't get me wrong, irresponsible behaviour must be condemned, but we, as policy makers, must, of course, provide a framework that is clear to everyone and that ensures that everyone can follow the rules without confusion. The virus can't and can't get a platform in our country anymore. How will you ensure that all citizens are clearly and fully informed about the rules and obligations when travelling? Is there any change to short-term travel rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u23	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, we understand that the Consultative Committee has been postponed, because first and foremost, all aid and attention must be paid to the people affected by the floods. Even if it stops raining, the water level can continue to rise. The fact that the meeting of the Consultative Committee has been postponed to next week may not be a bad thing, as we will then have more figures on the evolution of the number of infected people and, above all, on the number of hospitalised people. The latter number remains on average 17 per day and does not increase for the time being. Also, the number of deaths does not increase. Nevertheless, I believe that a signal should be sent to the public to clarify that it is still necessary to change behaviour, whether in our country or abroad. Even those who have been vaccinated must remain careful and know that the virus is still circulating. Good news is last week was a week without corona death. We hope it stays that way. The vaccinations have so far been in the right direction. Vaccination works, we know that, and can save lives, as with vaccinations against other diseases. The issue is that the spread of virus should be less likely. It remains therefore of the utmost importance to encourage people, whether or not they are working in healthcare, to be vaccinated. Meanwhile, the holiday period has arrived and people are looking forward to traveling. Travel is allowed, but whoever travels must change his behavior. Best they don't immediately dive into a packed discotheque. Busy places are best avoided. The basic rules must also be applied abroad. Anyone who returns must also avoid following the rules. My questions are as follows. What assistence will be on the table of the Consultative Committee? Will travellers be more controlled, such as abroad, through tests or through certificates? Will travel within the European Union continue to be possible with the Corona Safe Pass corona certificate, in which travellers can show that they are either fully vaccinated or have already received one vaccination and can also submit a negative test? There are rumors about a covid ticket for both small and large events. Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u24	Prime Minister, the number of infections is increasing and the virus is gaining strength. I'm not just talking about the corona virus, I'm talking about the panic virus. We need to ask ourselves whether we are not constantly shifting the criteria for assessing and defining policies. At some point very drastic measures have been taken, quite rightly, because the capacity of our health system was at risk and then all the lights have to jump red. However, I have the impression that the measure of action is moving in Parliament and also in a number of neighbouring countries. It goes without saying that we may never be able to get rid of the virus completely and that we will have to adapt to a new situation in which health care must be able to provide the appropriate care. I recommend a very interesting article in Het Laatste Nieuws today with infectiologist van der Hilst, a Dutchman, who sometimes takes the liberty of being more liberal and also warns about the panic virus. For example, he recalls how dangerous the decision to reopen the terraces was mentioned and that it would have disastrous consequences, but we did not see that. The vaccination is the great measure we must use. I would like to point out that I hope that any decisions will also take account of the differences between the various regions, because it would be rather strong for measures to be taken because one region lags far behind the other. Flanders is probably the best in vaccination rates worldwide. That's the only way everyone should focus on. Please let us beware of further stimulating the panic virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. As you have heard, the decision was made to postpone the Consultation Committee. This decision is based on the extreme floods we know in a large part of the country. This does not prevent us from making a diagnosis of the epidemiological situation here and looking at what should be the subjects to be addressed next week. What do we see? All over the world, the rate of contamination is increasing. It is clear that we are experiencing a surge in the delta variant in our country. We also see it in other countries. This is the case everywhere in Europe. In Belgium, it is now estimated to account for more or less 66% of the contamination. Yeah, he's already dominant right now. The real question is this: is it alarming? No. I would like to make a few arguments. First, this does not translate into an increase in hospitalizations. We see that the rate of hospitalization remains at a very low level and that the occupancy rate in our intensive care units has fallen sharply, and continues to do so. Then, our vaccination effort is truly exemplary. Looking at the adult population today, 82% of adults in our country have received first protection and 56% of adults are fully protected. In the European Union today, no country does better than we do when we combine these two elements. All the studies show us that at present, all the vaccines we use protect us from this new variant. Finally, our vaccination effort is fast but also of high quality. We have identified so-called co-morbidities in a very detailed manner, and few countries have been able to do so as we have. We follow the situation day by day, but in view of the current situation, with everything we see and everything we know, there is no reason to be alarmist. Nevertheless, the revival of the number of positive cases should prompt us to exercise some caution. It must make it clear to us that there is a certain risk in certain places as long as the vast majority of our population is not fully protected. I think it is becoming increasingly clear that complete vaccination is the way out, and that in our country, unlike in other countries, no additional drastic measures are needed to motivate people to be vaccinated. The vaccination readiness is particularly high throughout our country, and that seems to me our best guarantee of defeating the pandemic. As far as next week's Consultation Committee is concerned, I believe that we will adopt a cautious approach. After all, let us not forget that, unlike some other countries in recent weeks, we have not made too far-reaching relaxations. With regard to nightlife and for very large events, we have remained particularly cautious. In other countries measures must now be taken because there have been relaxations that we have not implemented, because we wanted to exercise the necessary caution on the basis of the then vaccination rate. As far as next week is concerned, therefore, I do not see why we should introduce new restrictions if it appears that there is no impact on the number of hospitalizations. It is clear, however, that we must at present remain cautious in introducing further relaxations. In my view, it is clear that we need to check whether the lines of defence we have are sufficient in practice. There has been talk of travel and the Minister for the Interior has made it very clear that we need to ensure that control is much more effective. As far as major events are concerned, we need to learn lessons from what has happened in other countries, with a view to security measures that we can take to ensure that such events take place safely. Finally, I would like to remind you of three major basic rules. First of all, make sure to keep sufficient distance from other people. Secondly, make sure you wear a mouth mask. Third, make sure there is sufficient ventilation inside. Those rules apply in our country and they apply as much as we do when we travel abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, of course, our thoughts today in this Parliament are directed at the victims of extreme weather conditions. I can tell you that FPS Public Health staff coordinate emergency medical assistance and provide psychological assistance to affected families. It is a serious crisis and, at such times, it is a bit surreal to discuss other issues. However, I come back to the questions that have been asked. With regard to the epidemic, the number of new infections is increasing sharply. The number of new hospital admissions has decreased for three months, but it appears that there is currently a slight increase in admissions. The number of occupied beds also decreased sharply. Again, this decline seems to be stopping. This will have to be verified in the next few days, as the Prime Minister said. All of our data indicate a very large virus circulation and, although this resurgence appears to affect primarily young people, if this upward trend continues, the likelihood that fragile, unvaccinated or partially immunized people will also increase. Mrs Farih, let me also say something about the young people, because you said we should not blame them. That is really not the approach we need because this is not about guilt. The circulation of the virus is very strong in children and adolescents. That's not a question of guilt, that's a finding. So we have to help them. If the mobile test team of the University of Antwerp continues to find that one in two is infected during preventive screenings of young people leaving youth camp, that is not an accusation. No one points the finger with that. However, it is well known that it is wise to have children tested before they leave for youth camp. You help them with that and you reassure the parents. I'm really arguing for that. However, that has nothing to do with guilt. This is now being done on a large scale in Kortrijk. The children and young people concerned are very satisfied with this. So let us not debate guilt. This virus has nothing to do with people's guilt, it's an enemy we have to defeat. The race between the virus and vaccination is far from being won. It is therefore necessary to continue the vaccination effort by also immunizing young people – this is very important – but also by slowing down the circulation of the virus as much as possible. This means that we must remain cautious in our daily behaviour, and very careful in our political decisions. As the Prime Minister said, there is no need to announce drastic measures. We must take the freedoms we currently have seriously. We need to secure them by strengthening our defence lines. The elements of this debate were said to strengthen controls around travel, to strengthen controls over quarantine and isolation measures, and to strengthen preventive tests for young people going to camps. These efforts must be made at all levels. We need to strengthen our efforts at the federal level. The Communities and the Regions must step up their efforts to control quarantines and isolations. Local authorities also have work to do. I know it's not easy, and saying it today is tricky. As far as vaccination is concerned, Mrs Reuter, I did not say that there would be compulsory vaccination. The Ministers of Health of that country together decided to launch a genuine joint action at all levels to achieve a vaccination standard requiring all care providers to be vaccinated. But action must be immediate, because it is easy to say, as the institutions say, that we must force vaccination. It's a little easy, because it'll take a lot of time. I am not against this measure, but it requires consultation, a certain level of time. This may be the final step in a process, but it requires immediate action and even more information and awareness, as well as transparency. I agree with the Ministers of Health of the federated entities that all health facilities should be invited to make public the immunization coverage of their staff. These are not only employees, but also independent doctors, particularly in hospitals. There are independents in all sectors, particularly in the field of outpatient services. It is more complicated to make vaccination compulsory. It is preferable to raise awareness, inform and ensure positive transparency in order to encourage all institutions to make maximum efforts. To do this, we need to proceed step by step. That being said, the most important thing at the moment is to get vaccinated, regardless of the age group to which we belong, and to continue to exercise the utmost caution in our daily behaviour for a long time to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u27	Minister, I would like to draw your attention here to the fact that, given the importance of the subject, I have allowed you to exceed your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u28	Prime Minister, Minister, I admit that I am somewhat confused by your answers. On the one hand, the Prime Minister gives us a reassuring response. On the other hand, the Minister of Health responds in a slightly more distressing way. Although we are used to it, it remains disconcerting. Prime Minister, you say that we are witnessing 66% of the contamination of the Delta variant, but that is not yet serious. This worries me, because we know the mechanism of this epidemic from the beginning: before each exponential flight, we are going through a calm period which is not yet reflected in an increase in hospitalizations. The vaccine protects us against serious forms, but it seems to me that young people, in particular, do not realize that it does not protect against the disease itself, against the long covid, which is very disabling. But we are not protected from it today. I am not concerned about the overall vaccination rate, as it is good, but about its still low rate in some places. I come back with my story of nursing and nursing homes: in Brussels, 35 to 40 % of the staff in these establishments are not vaccinated. If you add the Delta variant, we're running for disaster. Finally, I do not understand why we are procrastination around compulsory vaccination. Who else than political power can impose it? If we wait, Mr Vandenbroucke, for everyone to agree, we will not succeed! Why is it so difficult in this country to achieve compulsory vaccination in certain sectors, when it seems so easy to impose restraint on confinements? There's something irrational about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u29	Prime Minister, if I may, I would like to draw your attention to the way in which you highlight hospital and intensive care indicators. They're always late! Let me also remind you that the vaccine is not an absolute weapon. This is clearly demonstrated. It is the vaccine and all the other lines of defence that need to be strengthened. "Don't worry," that's what we overheard 18 months ago. I prefer, by far, extreme vigilance towards all early indicators and, at the same time, the need and need to strengthen our defence lines. They're plural. Each of them must be consolidated. That's how we'll control the contamination. In this way, we will avoid finding ourselves in this confinement that we have known for too long. Together, I believe that we will succeed, but all levels of power must mobilize and continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u30	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. Prime Minister, you are careful but reassuring. It's important to hear it. As a liberal, it is a speech that I personally appreciate. I do prefer to incentivize and encourage rather than coerce. I believe that this is a value that we share among Liberals. It is important to remain careful and vigilant, to continue to raise awareness so that vaccination becomes the norm, but without imposing measures that are too difficult to bear. Mr. Minister of Health, I didn't say anything else. I wanted more details on this famous action plan, which is not just to make the vaccine mandatory for health care workers but to do so in a way that you have explained very well. We may have misunderstood each other, but we're on the same wavelength. In my view, good awareness and the maintenance of precautionary measures will lead to public confidence. We've already managed to get it with these very positive vaccination figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u31	In any case, Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for your reply. It is a test of stability and we must indeed remain cautious to protect ourselves. Minister, I would like to return to your speech on guilt. I regret that you actually reduced my plea for a stronger protective framework when travelling to a story about guilt. If we provide more controls, a stronger framework and a better policy, then of course there are no infected young people on a full plane to Belgium. It is a question of pursuing a strong policy, not of pointing an accusing finger at certain target groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u32	Prime Minister, Minister, it is a positive signal that young people will also be able to be vaccinated. Only by vaccinating as many people as possible and by continuing to respect the measures and to remain cautious will we be able to defeat the virus. This will require an effort over several years. This applies to the whole world, and not just to our country, although it sometimes seems that way. We've learned a lot in the meantime, but we have to keep on fighting the virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u33	Prime Minister, I have heard in your reply that you want to apply the right criterion, namely the capacity of our health system. You're right. That's how we're supposed to do it. Of course, everyone is free to be vaccinated. I fully understand the freedom of choice, but it has been shown in figures that these vaccines make a crucial difference. It's hard to deny that. In the very well-organised process of vaccination, in which the population has shown a great willingness to be vaccinated, the federal government's share naturally consisted of providing vaccines. However, this part of the process has been the least successful. It is mainly the local authorities and the Flemish government that are allowed to sign for this success. I am therefore very proud that Flanders has proved to be a model worldwide in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u34	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we agree that further serious climate disruption and change worldwide, not only in Europe, should be addressed as far as possible and to the extent that we can do something about it. But no one, even the nostradamuses in the room I do not address myself to Mr.Devriendt, wants the fight against climate disruption to make it difficult for people to make ends meet at the end of the month. However, that will not be possible if we give the prophets of the energy transition, especially Mrs von der Leyen and Mr Timmermans, further freedom. They beat us around the ears yesterday with a pile of plans to create a climate-neutral Europe by 2050. Minister, that legislative package will have a particularly serious impact on businesses and citizens. The European Commission wants to change our way of life, living and heating, moving and even our eating habits drastically. Like many of the things that come out of the European Commission's case, it is not a free choice. A driving price incentive, i.e. the people's wallet, will force them to do so, with all the social consequences for not only the people in energy poverty and transport poverty, but also for the broad, hard-working middle class in this country. In order to stimulate people and businesses to behave more sustainably, the cost of CO2 emissions must literally be higher and higher. I give an anthology of the consequences. Tanking inevitably threatens to become more expensive. Living and renting is becoming more expensive, because 97% of Belgian homes need to be made more energy efficient. The majority of homes in this country are heated with gas and this is becoming more expensive. Flying is getting more expensive. The electricity bill, which is already blowing out in this country, will also be more expensive. Anyone who is unable to afford an electric car or will charge too much during peak hours and will be financially punished for doing so will have to live without a private car. He'll have to increase the frequency of public transport. This is organized transport poverty, as in the former Eastern bloc. Driving will be for the happy few. Minister, your colleague, Mr Khattabi, said the following. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u35	Minister, a few months ago I was standing here asking about torn houses in Rukkelingen-Loon, which I had visited. Today the south of my province has been hit again. Just torn images reach us from Liège and Luxembourg, where residents had to take refuge on the roof and wait for evacuation and where cars drift away. It's horrible. The worst thing is that the problems for those concerned are only beginning. Tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, when the water pulls out, they're left with the cost. I note that a Flemish minister arrives and states that Flanders will deepen local watercourses and that the problems will be solved. But extra digging, however sympathetic, or some extra sandbags will not save us, because the climate warming is largely responsible for more and more extreme weather phenomena. So what we need are Fit-for-55 plans and strong climate plans to make the change. Colleagues, I will be very clear. If we do nothing, it will cost much more. I am only for politicians who are already questioning the feasibility and affordability of plans that still have to be worked out. After all, this attitude fits perfectly into the booth of the lobby of CO2 exuberant companies. But that is not good for the inhabitants who are standing in the water today. Minister, how will Belgium assume its responsibility to ensure that the plans proposed last night are not only vigorous, but also remain social, so that everyone can come along?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the people, today is the day for us. It's time for action. In this context, it is good that the European Commission is bringing forward the ambitious Fit-for-55 package. With this, there is a package of proposals from the European Commission to achieve a reduction in emissions of at least 55% by 2030. That is entirely in line with the coalition agreement. This is entirely in line with our international commitments. This set the tone for the green gear. The European Commission is already taking more account of issues that have highlighted our country over the past few months: better regulation of pollution from shipping and aviation, protection of businesses and jobs in Europe with a border mechanism and support for families through a social fund. These are some interesting new elements in Fit for 55. Minister Khattabi and I are also pleased that the Commission is responding to Belgium's request to make emission-free vehicles the standard and thus contribute to climate protection and improving air quality. It is, of course, too early to take a position on all the elements of the package. We are still very much in the process of analysing the almost 3,000 pages of proposals with very important links. Then we still have to determine the federal position and agree with the other entities on a meaningful contribution from Belgium to the European debate. The federal government will be constructive and voluntaristic in the discussions in Belgium and Europe on the proposals, which are still to be approved by the Member States and the European Parliament. If the income from an extra CO2 price tag is returned to the families, that is a progressive measure. Several studies confirm that, too. Then the social consequences are positive and the most vulnerable families are improving in globo. Climate and economy are a smart combination, which is precisely the solution for everyone, starting with the weakest of us. The federal government considers it very important that the funds from the improved CO2 cost price, for example for aviation, should be returned to the Member States, so that we can also support families and businesses. Solutions must become cheaper and more affordable for everyone by scaling them up. That is what our policy is aimed at. We also expect price reductions for solar panels, heat pumps, electric vehicles and hydrogen technology. These technologies can also create new jobs in our country. For the government, for Minister Khattabi and for me, one thing is crystal clear: the necessary transition in the light of Fit for 55 will only succeed if it is fair and just. This must be visible in both the efforts and the consequences of our policies. How do we live with respect for the limits of the planet? How do we prevent climate extremes? How do we conduct a good policy and how do we take action, so that we do not all have to take up water together? It is up to us to guarantee the conditions for this and we will do so with the Fit for 55 package.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u37	Minister, the EU Member States and the European Parliament have indeed yet to approve the plans. There's still room for adjustment. But I'm not under any illusions. Yesterday, a Member of the European Parliament from Vooruit on the radio said that there is already energy and transport poverty in this country today. Apparently, there's still time for that. Who will pay for the European Commission's Social Climate Fund, which will be financed only 20% by emission allowances? Who's gonna take the fall for that? That is the hard-working middle class in this country, because that will become inevitable if we co-finance 50% of the social climate fund, and I have not heard you say this. Er is a conclusion: with the greens, it's more expensive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. For the people who are in trouble today, it is of course a poor consolation. However, it is good that you are committed to Europe's Fit-for-55 plans. We will all feel the consequences of these plans; we are faced with a huge transition. But of course it must be social, precisely in order not to increase energy poverty. Mr Ravyts, I have listened to your words, apparently not to mine. If we do nothing, the cost to society will only be greater. What you're actually doing is nothing. What you do is very easy criticism. You point at the others, you scare people. I wonder what the people who are standing in the water with their feet today or whose house has been torn have to say about your criticism. Nothing! Mr Minister, today we are particularly sympathetic to the misery of these many families, but it is your duty and our duty to show responsibility and to develop a social climate policy that leaves no one behind.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u39	Madam President, Secretary of State, by 2030 the federal government will pursue an activity rate of 80%. At least that is in the coalition agreement that you wrote on your own. However, after the last parliamentary year, I can only conclude that, as the government's labour market policy now stands, it will remain in that one sentence. An inter-professional agreement that is hopelessly reversing the clock, which is particularly detrimental to the level of activity, the tax burden and social security in our country, the relaxation of the bridge pension and runways and new wage costs subsidies are all measures that will ensure that fewer people are able to work and that more people need a benefit. A Minister of Work, who, during a plenary session, is delighted to pass on the bill of this policy to the Flemish taxpayer, a Minister of Work who, despite what is stated in the government agreement, ladies and gentlemen of Open Vld, is still interfering with the wage standard law, with all its consequences, not to mention a Minister of Pensions who is pleased that the Ageing Report shows that the cost of ageing will continue to be affected by the pension measures of this government. At the same time, the first activation measure of this government-De Croo remains the best-kept secret of the Rue de la Loi. For example, there is slowly nothing left of the extremely successful labour market policy of the Michael I government, a policy that some current government parties defended with fire and passion at the time. Yesterday, a resolution was adopted in the Flemish Parliament with a number of very specific questions to the federal government, with a view to a performance and active labour market policy. Mr Secretary of State, when will you implement that piece of your federal government agreement? When will you ensure that an asymmetric labour market policy can really be implemented so that the different regions can conduct their own policies on their own?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u40	Mr Secretary of State, the vaccination campaign in our country is running at full speed, social life is moving carefully towards the normal and the economy is expanding. The corona crisis has had a huge impact on the lives of our citizens and our businesses. The government has taken decisive measures to mitigate this impact as far as possible. Now it is time for a different kind of action. We need to make sure that the government continues to support the companies in that recovery. In order for our economy and prosperity to grow again after corona, far-reaching reforms are needed, including in labour market policy. They have to do something about the mismatch that exists today. There are many vacancies, but at the same time the rate of effectiveness in Belgium is too low. The government agreement wants it to reach 80% by 2030. This means that efforts must be stepped up to lead, among other things, long-term sick people, people with a migration background and other inactive people into the labour market and to increase the level of activity among people between 55 and 65. An annual employment conference must draw up concrete action plans to achieve this goal. The first of these conferences will take place in September. We must therefore use this opportunity to implement these reforms. How is this employment conference being handled? Who's in on it? What route do you intend to take to enable the increase in efficacy? How will the reintegration of long-term incapacity into the labour market be promoted? How will you respond to the demand for flexibility for workers and employers to organise work, including when it comes to working hours? We saw a strong growth in e-commerce over the past year. Our companies and employees must be able to reap the benefits of this. Are you working on a relaxation of night work arrangements?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, let me first apologise to my colleague Pierre-Yves Dermagne, who is detained in his commune of Rochefort. Like other municipalities in Wallonia, but also in Flanders - I am thinking of the province of Limburg and the province of Flemish Brabant - Rochefort is very affected by the terrible floods that we are currently suffering. Mr. Anseew, your motion this morning to requisition Mr. Dermagne to the House, while he is at the front in his commune of Rochefort, which is under water, was absolutely shocking, if not unworthy! The fact that you do not understand the catastrophic situation of the inhabitants of certain communes, in Wallonia and Flanders, is unacceptable. I find your motion all the more cynical as your government reduced the funding for Emergency Preparedness under the previous legislature. There are, as we speak in Wallonia, houses that collapse, the dead, the disappeared, the families that are on the roof of their house and are waiting for help. This wasn't the time for politics. We must show solidarity in the face of this ordeal. I think we can take this opportunity to think of all the families who, today, at the very moment we are sitting in this chamber, are facing a catastrophic situation. I'll come back to the questions. As you know, our government, in cooperation with the Länder, has been working hard for several months to combat the socio-economic consequences of the corona crisis. The work of the government is paying off. The latest report by the Employment High Council of July 2021 shows that we have succeeded in stabilising the situation. The employment rate has not evolved, but we have been able to reduce the loss of jobs. It is only a net loss of around 800 jobs and a limited impact on the employment rate. The prospects for the future are positive. Employment is expected to increase by 32,000 jobs in 2021. This increase will continue in the coming years. The unemployment rate is back at pre-crisis levels. In 2021 it was even 25,000 jobs lower compared to 2019. In the light of the worst crisis since the Second World War, the balance is therefore positive, thanks to our social security and the public services that have worked as economic stabilisers. However, we are not triumphant. On the contrary, we remain very vigilant in the development of the delta variant. We also know that some sectors, certain workers and the most vulnerable have suffered particularly from the crisis. We can't abandon them. Our labour market also faces many challenges, as asked in your questions. For example, the number of vacancies in sectors such as communication or construction is still higher than the average in the euro area. The priorities for the government are now no one to leave behind during the relay and create the conditions to achieve our targets of an employment rate of 80% by 2030. As emphasised by the High Employment Council, this means that attention should be paid to those who today have fewer opportunities to find a job, such as the low-skilled people, people from outside the EU, people aged 60-64, the growing number of long-term sick, people with disabilities and women. This year's employment conference will focus on one of these groups, namely older workers. Everyone agrees that the training of workers throughout their career is also fundamental to achieving the employment objective. Drafts will be submitted shortly to strengthen us on this point. The whole government is committed to increasing the employment rate, whether it is labour market reform, investment, measures to help entrepreneurs, public employment, the preparation of a tax reform or an ambitious second re-launch plan, something that is very close to my heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u42	Mr Secretary of State, I will not do what you have just done: this morning's debate will be politically recovering from the many victims, both in Flanders and Wallonia. I think that your comment on the subject is not very good, especially since I was the first to move the debate on Minister Dermagne's draft bill to next Monday. So you can hardly blame me in that regard. As far as content is concerned, I call you to common sense. There are over three million inactive people in the country. In Wallonia, there is a rate of activity of only 64% and in Brussels, of only 62%, while in Flanders we are faced with an unbelievably tight labour market. Yesterday, again, Flanders asked a number of very specific questions: it explicitly asks for the SWT to be extinguished, to strengthen the degressivity of unemployment benefits and to really reverse the key for long-term sick people, so that they too can be activated with workable work, but you remain deaf to that. Flanders is ready to face the challenges, but the federal government must stop sticking sticks in the wheels. The federal government must be at the service of the regions, including Flanders, and must implement that part of the coalition agreement which will enable us to pursue an asymmetric labour market policy. In this way, the various regions in our country can pursue their own labour market policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u43	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I am convinced that the Employment Conference, in close consultation with the Communities, will bring about a reform of labour market policy, aimed at getting more people to work and keep them. We attach importance to many points of interest, such as the easing of night work and smooth transitions, in order to facilitate job mobility. Training throughout the career should be facilitated. People in disability need to be followed up properly and quickly. I am, of course, curious about the results of that conference. I also look forward to the action plan to achieve the 80% employment rate. Mr Secretary of State, today our main focus is on the victims of the unprecedented floods. We are extremely grateful to the many aid workers and volunteers. We wish everyone all the best.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u44	Madam President, Mrs Schlitz, I am speaking to you as Deputy Minister of Justice. So don't take what I'm about to tell you personally. I know you have an ungrateful job to do. I will try to be as kind as possible, as always. Mrs Schlitz, this morning I was shocked by a message in Het Nieuwsblad, which indicated that the child abuse had increased, but that the figures were hiding a large dark number. This means that it is very difficult to know exactly what happened in that area during the corona period. We have indicated that child abuse has increased because calls on the helpline 1712 have increased significantly by 45%. From the health care system we get data from what we started to call the system Child Reflex. This means that there is automatically a reflex to provide care for the children when a parent is hospitalized or in mental health care. The centres of confidence are also now showing that there is a higher figure of intra-family violence and child abuse. By the way, there is only one child abuse, namely in the family where there is fear. I have four brief questions for you. Firstly, what steps are you taking to remove that dark number and thus increase the social visibility of child abuse? Secondly, you stated in your policy statement that you will recognise the risks and harmful consequences to which children are exposed by witnessing intra-family violence. What steps have you taken? Thirdly, how can we ensure that the dark number becomes visible? Fourthly, what steps have been taken to implement the resolution on intra-family violence recently adopted by Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u45	Mr None, thank you for your question on a very important subject. I have also read the article in the newspaper today and I share your concern, especially when we know that the situations we are aware of are just the tip of the iceberg. For the government, tackling intra-family violence, including child abuse, is an absolute priority. You know that people who beat their partners often beat their children too. Children are always the victims of violence between their parents. On 20 November 2020, the Federal Government adopted a series of measures in different areas through a federal action plan to combat gender and intra-family violence during the second covid wave. I am thinking, for example, of the proactive contact by police forces with known victims of intra-family violence. My services are currently finalising the national action plan on gender-based violence. It provides for a wide range of measures to combat intra-family violence, such as strengthening the training of health professionals in intra-family violence. It is also necessary to enable any police officer to ensure the necessary and optimal reception of victims of intra-family violence 24 hours a day. There will also be 15 additional criminologists for the multidisciplinary approach within the parquets. You will find that the approach to this issue is multidisciplinary. This is not a task for the police or justice alone. The battle must be fought on different fronts at the same time. A great deal of attention will also be paid to coordination and exchange with the Länder, so that policy levels and different services can respond to each other in the best possible way. This is necessary to stop this violence. My heart goes out to every victim. The sad numbers can only silence us. I hope to work on this with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u46	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u47	Madam President, Secretary of State, this afternoon I am not here to address a political inquiry. I come to talk to you about humanity, with those 470 undocumented men and women and hunger strikers who are a few hundred metres away from this Parliament. They have been in our country for 5, 10, 15 years and work there, obviously in the dark, therefore without access to social security and under conditions that are often unworthy. They have also, with the crisis and pandemic of the covid-19, literally lost everything. They are in such distress that their last opportunity to express themselves is to organize such a hunger strike which, after 50 days, puts their lives in danger. This represents a real rift for my entire political group. Solving it is simply not possible. We've been in contact with field associations for weeks, with members of your firm. We ask you questions in the parliamentary committee in order to find a solution, a way out of the crisis. Today, waiting is no longer an option. This government, you yourself, Secretary of State, must act. We must find solutions to avoid the worst - we all wish - and put an end to this crisis and restore their dignity to these 470 women and men. Within the framework of your skills and within the framework of the government agreement, solutions exist. The health situation of these men and women is dramatic and solutions must be found. We ask you, forcefully and urgently, to activate these skills in order to put an end to this ordeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u48	Mr Secretary of State, today the neutral location for the hunger strikers finally opens, and that is very good news. After all, nobody really wants people to starve. This crisis must therefore be brought to an end. In the meantime, the different positions on regularisations are well known and you also know ours. We already have criteria for refugees, for labour migration, for family reunification and for victims of trafficking in human beings. Regularisation is a favor, not a right, it can only be in exceptional circumstances, after individual examination and never collectively. No hunger strike will ever change that. On that point, too, it is very clear. There are parties who prefer to fill in regularization differently and today they are also being discussed. Differences are supposed to exist in a healthy democracy, but political disputes are not at issue today. What we are discussing today is solutions. With Vooruit, we've been arguing for that neutral location for a long time, as a way out of this crisis. A neutral location is not located in a church or in the offices of the Foreign Office (DVZ), but in a neutral place, where the hunger strikers can be escorted and the state of play of their individual files. That's how they find out what perspective is for them. That neutral location is a major step forward for us. However, it is only a first step. The responsibility for making this a success lies with all of us. It lies with all political parties, both from the majority and from the opposition, preferably with a consistent discourse, but also with civil society, volunteers and activists. They must now allow the hunger strikers to use the neutral location effectively. That is why I call on you all to make this neutral location a success. Let us support them 100% in words and deeds. For Forward, that's the way out of the crisis. Mr Secretary of State, what will you do to make this a success?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u49	Secretary of State Mohamed, here for 17 years, participated in the renovation of the construction site of the Arts-Loi metro station. A picture of him is even displayed along the wharf. Farida, 51, was born here and cleans the offices, even at the courthouse. Nadia, a baker, left her country with her now-schooled boy in Anderlecht because their lives are threatened by her ex-husband. They are therefore men and women who work, contribute, build. They live here, pay their taxes often for years. They are exploited for a few euros an hour and have no rights. They simply ask to be able to contribute to social security and to be able to be protected like any worker in this country. They ask for clear criteria in the law based on sustainable anchoring, on work, on vulnerability in order to issue residence permits. This is what exists in many other countries such as France or Spain. We no longer understand and count, since January, the appeals of the trade unions, civil society from all over the country and even international, as we see again today with the appeals of Ken Loach, Angela opinions, Roger Waters, Noam Chomsky, the European Confederation of Trade Unions, the petition "We are Belgium too" which has collected more than 38,000 signatures and this continues to increase. Even in your own majority, Secretary of State, Ecolo and the PS I greet here have signed a white card to ask for a human solution. And you, you don't sunk! Other governments before you have found solutions when there were tragedies like today's. You stay with your arms crossed! Do you find it normal to wait until there are dead to act or are you finally going to change politics and give human perspectives with clear regularization criteria, Secretary of State? [[Applause from the European Democratic Group]] [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u50	Madam President, first of all, on behalf of the Socialist Group in the House, I would like to express our solidarity, our empathy and our full support for those who are fighting against the calamities that are now affecting Wallonia and much of Flanders as well. Mr Secretary of State, on a daily basis, the Democrats we are asking themselves a question. What is the cement of our democracy? To this, many respond to respect for human dignity. And that's what this is about. Those men and women who are now on a hunger strike, using an extreme means to ensure that their human dignity is respected, are not ghosts. They're human beings like you and me. People who live with hope, suffering, people who work, who are part of the social body, who form society with us. For more than 50 days now, it has been more than 450 people who have been calling for a space for dialogue, not to procrastinate on interpretations of regulations or laws, but to see the inaction of an administration that refuses, under your leadership, to consider dealing with their situation, not on the basis of legislative changes, but on the basis of existing texts that make possible solutions. Mr Secretary of State, it is no longer time for legal procrastination, but for action, to restore to these men and women the dignity to which they are entitled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u51	Mr. Secretary of State, the human situation is dramatic, grave for all the undocumented people who are on hunger strike. Who are they? Who is hiding behind these words of "hunger gravists" and even more terrible behind this expression of "paperless"? They are men and women, some of whom were born in Belgium, some of whom worked for public companies - digging the metro, maintaining public buildings. They are people who have children, who speak Dutch and French perfectly. They are people who earn a few euros, even those who work for the public authorities, and sometimes even without social protection. Faced with this tragedy, part of the government is speaking in the press this morning, two party presidents, PS and Ecolo. They tell you that inaction becomes guilty. Ladies and gentlemen of the PS and of Ecolo, it is also your guilty inaction that you yourself speak of in the press. We voted here in the House for the proposals that we were putting on the table, on which we had collaborated with DéFI and you voted against, all of you here in the press this morning! We are not asking for massive regularization. We've already said that. At the CDH, we propose clear, transparent criteria with the establishment of an independent commission. We're not the only ones asking. The representatives of workers, employers, university rectors, many citizens ask for it for human and economic reasons. Secretary of State, the hunger strike has been going on for 50 days. As a doctor, I have to tell you that the limit is crossed. What is your answer to what today is a question of life or death?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u52	Madam President, first of all, I would like to echo Mrs Fonck's concern about the people who are on hunger strike today. The situation is indeed bad and it is getting worse every day. That is why I have always kept speaking with the hunger strikers themselves. Mr Vanden Burre and Mr Laaouej rightly said that the hunger strikers are not ghosts, but people with whom to talk and to whom to make clear what the rules are. I also have to explain to them why I do not respond to some of their demands, in particular the requirement to assign residence papers to all hunger strikers. Is it inhuman? No. Does that mean closing our borders? No. That we no longer offer protection to those fleeing war or persecution? No. That we are against migration? Not at all. People can come to Belgium to work, to study or because they have found love there. There are procedures for the protection of refugees, victims of trafficking in human beings or unaccompanied minors. Last year, more than 100,000 people arrived in our country in this way. In addition, 3,500 people benefited from an exception to the existing rules, through individual humanitarian regularization. Don't say we're not human. But no, this exception to the rule cannot be made for everyone. And a hunger strike will not change that. It's been my message since the first day, and it's still my message today. However, it is important to inform people about the existing procedures for obtaining a residence status. That is why we are now providing this neutral zone, together with the city of Brussels, to reach out to the activists and to provide them with the right information. People can come here for information about their procedure and for a discussion about their individual situation. An employee can talk to them about the procedures that are sometimes already behind them and explain to them why they have been rejected, but also inform them about the possibilities of submitting a new application. They shall be informed of the elements or evidence to be included in an application and shall be taken into account. Transparency is demanded and given. We have already given information sessions in the past, including with the Foreign Office, with regard to the hunger strikers themselves, with regard to civil society, which we have questioned. We explain to them what policy we conduct every day. Thanks to cooperation with the mayor Close, any person wishing to submit an application for regularization can do so immediately. It's the normal procedure. A request must not be submitted to my services, but to the municipality. I call on everyone, politicians and civil society, to support this initiative, as Mr Segers has said, and to encourage hunger strikers to stop their action. Our services are ready to process individual requests in accordance with normal procedures and under normal conditions, trying to ensure that procedures go as quickly as possible. Here too, a strengthening of our services is required. We are responding positively. But no, there will be no collective solution, neither today nor tomorrow. No, we're not talking about 475 people without papers. We're talking about 150,000 people without papers. A treatment for a undocumented person cannot change depending on whether he is hunger striker or not. The treatment should be exactly the same. Bringing everyone out of the irregularity is the ambition we all have and we have to work on, but not by making sure that someone who is on a strike is treated in a different way than someone else. I'm very concerned about the health of the activists. This isn't gonna make anybody any better. There are only losers here. It is particularly important to support policy and action now. I've been asked not to be inactive, and I'm right to be asked. We must be active. We have to fight the fact that people risk their lives every day. We are more than 50 days away from a hunger strike. So yes, for that reason, we worked, we worked together, we talked. Today, we are installing this neutral zone. But this neutral zone will only be successful if we all work together. You asked me not to be inactive. I'm not. I'm asking you to cooperate because otherwise, we can't do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u53	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. First of all, dear colleague Fonck, avoid politics in this matter! I really knew you more inspired. Secondly, on the merits, we know that collective regularisation will not take place. Besides, this is not our request. You heard him in my question. I also know that the situation is affecting you, Secretary of State, because I read it in the press. The neutral zone you have set up this afternoon is a first step that we support. However, we must go further. We need more. We need to move towards emergency solutions to get out of this crisis situation. I also call on employers and trade unions, the social partners, to take a stand. Yes, solutions are possible! The Catholic Church and the Grand Rabbi of Brussels also intervened to indicate that stronger solutions than this neutral zone must be developed. This was the case in the past, on the occasion of other hunger strikes, both at the time of the colleague De Block and at the time of the colleague Dewael, Minister of the Interior. It has been possible in the past; it must be today. We must move towards a real structural and urgent solution!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u54	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your clear and convincing reply. A neutral location is our way out. We all have to put our hands on that now. I would therefore like to reiterate my appeal to all, all political parties by majority and opposition, civil society, volunteers and activists. For Forward it is clear, this neutral location is the way out. I think it is very important to stress that this does not mean choosing between head and heart, but choosing with head and heart, controlled and human. So let us take that responsibility together and make it a success. I wish you every success in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u55	Secretary of State, I heard your answer, which is no different from the one you gave me a few days ago when I asked you about it. You always talk about a neutral zone, about the need to inform about the procedure. But that's not what you're asked for! That's not what the undocumented people are asking for! They know the procedure by heart! They've already started it several times! What you are asked for are clear criteria! As my colleague has pointed out, you are touched by what is happening. I read your carte blanche, Mr. Secretary of State. It must be noted that your vision of migration is theoretical. A theory is respected. You may very well have one, except that it is completely out of step with reality. Today, there are 150,000 undocumented people in our territory. What concrete solutions do you propose to them? None! You're not offering them any solutions. It is this situation that leads to hunger strikes. It is despair and your inactivity that lead to these. It is because the government does not play its part, it is because you do not do your job by establishing clear criteria for regularization that this despair has arisen!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u56	Mr Secretary of State, I take note of the elements that you have kindly given us today, namely the establishment of a neutral zone to study individual situations and see what can be done. Secretary of State, it is not every day that the employers and the trade union world join together to say with the same voice that they are reaching out to you because they want to find solutions with you and explore the field of work to enable these people to obtain a residence permit in Belgium and thus participate in an official way, while they do so informally, in the economy and development of our country. This is an important element, Secretary of State! For the rest, to find solutions and avoid tragedies, there is no immediate need to amend the regulations. Article 9bis allows you to do so, with your authority! This is quite possible immediately. You don't have to hang around anymore, Secretary of State! We need immediate solutions!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u57	Mr Secretary of State, before returning to you, allow me to respond to my colleagues. Political politics! If you see this tragedy as an important issue, it is not with tweets and white cards addressed to the government that you will help the undocumented. Because the government is you! Then act rather than show yourself in the press! Secretary of State, the government has remained very square in a frozen posture in recent weeks. I am someone very much on the brink of respect for the rules, of justice and fairness vis-à-vis others, of each other's rights and duties. But today, at 50 days, the question is life or death. No one can be content to watch these paperless people go out with little fire or even watch them die while staying on the balcony. The urgency is absolute: to finish and get out of this hunger strike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u58	The next item is the vote on naturalisations. (2058/1-2) The next item is the secret vote on naturalisations. (2058/1-2) In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 1 July 2021, members were able to vote from Friday, 18 June 2021 to today, 4 p.m. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 1 July 2021, members were able to vote from Friday 18 June 2021 until 4 p.m. The two youngest members present are invited to attend the counting of the ballots. This will now take place in Room 3. The two youngest members present are invited to attend the vote. This will now take place in Room 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u59	The next item is the counting of the ballot for the appointment of alternate members as part of the renewal of half of the terms of office of the Notariat Appointment Commissions. The next item is the inclusion of votes for the appointment of alternate members as part of the renewal of half of the mandates of the Notarial Appointment Commissions. Nominations were announced during the plenary meetings of 28 January 2021, 25 March 2021 and 12 May 2021. Candidates were announced at the plenary sessions of 28 January 2021, 25 March 2021 and 12 May 2021. The document containing the names of the candidates has been distributed to you. (1989/1) The piece with the names of the candidates was delivered to you. (1989/1) In accordance with the decisions of the plenary meetings of 24 June and 8 July 2021, members were able to vote from Friday 25 June 2021 to today 4 p.m. In accordance with the decisions of the plenary sessions of 24 June and 8 July 2021, members were able to vote from Friday 25 June 2021 until 4 p.m. The two youngest members present are invited to attend the counting of the ballots. It will also take place now in Room 3. The two youngest members present are invited to attend the vote. This will now also take place in Room 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u60	Madam President, Prime Minister, Mrs Haouach's case has already caused quite a bit of misery in your government or in your majority. Since you were not present just now, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Secretary of State Mahdi has just given a comprehensive answer to questions from all the majority parties on the French-speaking side on a very important subject. He received applause from the liberals and CD&V, while the sharp replies were applauded by Ecolo-Groen and PS. Going ahead was pretty much in the middle. In the middle of the left block, just to be clear. I would be very concerned about the homogeneity within your government, because that was an illustration of a problem that also arises in Mrs Haouach's case. Then we are not ready for the socio-economic challenges, why the contradictions in your government do not arise because you do not take positions on them. Mrs Haouach's problem is not a problem of her own. Mrs Haouach is a person with a conviction, which I respect as such and with which I have nothing to do with either. However, it is about the designation of a government commissioner. That designation had everything from the proverbial hot potato. First, only the Secretary of State was responsible, then you told us here, you remember, because we have had to call you back, that no one in the government has challenged that. Prompt came, to sign the atmosphere in your government again, a tweet of a minister in your government who claimed to have done so. Then you came here to tell us that two totally different statements do not have to contradict each other, a sample of political acrobatics that you will undoubtedly need regularly in the future. We are talking here about the extent to which a representative of the government, and indeed a representative of all of us, should radiate neutrality in word and deed, but also in appearance. Your good colleagues from the MR have a very clear position in this, which they have not yet been able to make up for. Prime Minister, if I replaced the word headscarf with sutane and the year 2021 by 1960, you would strongly defend that position of the MR. Your liberal predecessors, from then on the PVV, would have stood on the barricades to say that it does not give a pass that a government commissioner in, for example, priest's clothing, with a clear religious symbolism, performs his function in this way. We are not in 1960 and it is not about a soutane, we are in 2021 and you do not support your colleagues from the MR. More than that, you were official yesterday, because that was a public statement, and that neutralism was abandoned. You did so in a remarkable communication, in which you, as a politician and prime minister, gave a negative assessment of people who make a very personal choice regarding their professional activity. Prime Minister, everyone's right to choose to work or not. I don't know where you actually get the right to say that you have more respect for a woman with a headscarf who's going to work than for a woman without a headscarf who stays home. I found that particularly impertinent. I've even considered that a little spitting in my mother's face. She once chose not to work. That was a personal choice. The fact that you think you should take a negative view of this is something you should have done better. Let me come back to the question of the government commissioner. We heard on Friday that she resigned and that there was a document on state security. I immediately asked you to come forward with a text and an explanation. That's what happened on Monday. We asked for an insight into that document. You said that this would require a security clearance and that this could not be done. Will you confirm that in a moment? I will ask you that question again. Is it true what you said at the time that we need a security clearance to see that document, for example in private circumstances or in committee I? Will you confirm what you said on Monday? Secondly, you've given some of a time schronology. We were asked to make it available to us. That has not happened, because it is a bit harsh and has proved incomplete. If we can believe the documents that have been published in the press in the meantime, the State Security Note had already been drawn up on Tuesday. You didn't mention it. You said that after that, it turned out that this note did not come to the Minister of Justice until Wednesday evening, and that you did not arrive at your office until 2 p.m. on the next day, and you did so to inform the public that you did have additional information on the most important political issue in this Chamber last week, but that you considered that you would not be aware of it until after the plenary session. You have therefore deliberately not been fully informed, although the Chamber has programmed and asked questions. I think that is a particularly reprehensible way of doing things. I also asked you on Monday whether you could guarantee and whether your government would insist that Mrs Haouach's successor also radiate neutrality in the clothing in his or her functioning? You replied that you would not change the rules. Can we therefore conclude that Mrs Haouach's successor at the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, if it is a lady, could possibly also wear a headscarf or, if it is a man and someone from CD&V draw, a soutane or a Roman collar? I have the impression that Mr. None belongs to the progressive movement within the Church. Here too, I would like to ask you to be absolutely clear about this. Especially within your coalition, there will be a great deal of attention to the answer you give. Finally, I asked this yesterday. You didn't have to move for me. That reply was also allowed in writing. Can you give a full timeline for delivering the State Security Note, which was not an initiative of the government for the sake of clarity? This means that even after the fuss that had arisen and after you have received the note, which you may in a moment confirm or deny, the government has not taken any initiative. She didn't take any initiative after getting a note of possible ties between a government commissioner and the Muslim Brotherhood. Even then, you have not yet responded to the security of the State by asking for further investigation, because this is alarming. You didn't seem to think the note was alarming. After all, you have not taken any action. You were then "saved" because Mrs. Haouach resigned herself. So, Prime Minister, there are quite a few questions that I would have liked to have been answered in concrete terms. We will then decide whether or not you will be able to go beyond the great breadth of your coalition in the political field. I hope you will be able to do so without injury.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u61	Prime Minister, a note of state security was leaking, showing that Mrs Haouach is in contact with the Muslim Brotherhood. The self-declared goal of that fundamentalist organization is the creation of a state ruled by Sharia. That movement maintains close contacts with terrorist organisations such as Hamas and aims at the gradual Islamisation of majority Islamic nations. Even though listening to music is haram, I am convinced that Mrs Haouach's statements about demographic change sounded like music to the Muslim brothers, because her statements fit in perfectly with their ideological strategies. Ms Haouach apologized for her statements, but in an earlier interview she had taken away by an organisation linked to the Muslim Brotherhood, European Forum of Muslim Women, she regretted that Muslims have not yet united in Belgium to put pressure on politics. I find it significant that this passage was discreetly removed after her nomination as government commissioner, and I find it equally significant that a party like Ecolo, who so to say opposes the we-she-thinking and the ethnocultural thinking, is suggesting someone who believes that Muslims should organise themselves as a separate group of policies to put pressure on our system. Prime Minister, we were and still are not in favour of proposing someone wearing a headscarf as government commissioner for gender equality. A headscarf symbolises the subjugation of women to men, and in recent weeks it has been clear that virtually no one in this country was worse placed to be appointed government commissioner. At Monday's committee meeting, you did not answer my good colleague Dominiek Sneppe's question as to whether there could be a re-appointment of a government commissioner with a headscarf against any neutrality obligation. In the newspapers afterwards, you apparently didn't think that was a problem. You've given some remarkable interviews. In an interview in Le Vif, you opened the door to the free and open wearing of a headscarf during the performance of a public function. I didn't know that was the Open Vld position. In your opinion, being unparticipated and honest has nothing to do with wearing the veil or not. In another interview last week, you defended the particularly woman-unfriendly burkini and the separate swimming hours. So much for your self-proclaimed feminism, which you like to write books about. Meanwhile, the MR chairman on Twitter, as we are used to him, does all that as your personal position and not as a government position. Hence my first question. Can you clarify whether it is indeed the government's view that a government official no longer needs to be unveiled in order to perform public functions? Secondly, can you state that someone associated with an extremist Islamic movement in a state security report is appointed government commissioner? When did that note of state security date? That department didn't make it until after the commotion and long after it was appointed? Do you believe that a Secretary of State who has close links with extremist Muslim organisations as a government commissioner can still function properly in your government? What concrete action will you take to improve the screening of Muslim extremists trying to infiltrate the highest political regions in this country? Finally, I had a few questions about the timeline. I will not, of course, repeat my colleague's questions. I found it quite striking that, although you knew of the existence of that note, you did not consider it necessary to take note of it before you came here to answer questions from Members on the subject. Not only did you not think it was worth taking note of its content, but you also did not think it worth informing the Secretary of State, who also had to answer questions about its existence. Can I find that very bizarre and at least not very collegial? The only additional question I would like to ask you is the timeline. When and by whom was the then government commissioner informed of the State Security Report?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u62	Mr De Roover, Mrs Pas, first of all, the 1937 law which applies to federal agents interacting with the public makes it very clear that these agents must be able to work in all neutrality and that they must not bear any confessional sign. I confirmed that in the interview. I have made it very clear that the law of 1937 applies to interactions with the public and that I see no reason to change it. That is what the interview says and I think it makes perfect sense. I now turn to the other questions. Following the events that took place after last Thursday's plenary session, the Secretary of State and I made it clear that we were available for an exchange of views in the Committee on Equal Opportunities. It took place last Monday at 10 a.m. We have answered your questions there for more than two hours. So I will not repeat the cases that have been dealt with there. I am now giving more details about the timeline of events. On Thursday 3 June, the Security of the State drew up an internal note on the newly appointed Government Commissioner at the Institute for Equality between Women and Men. That note was not delivered to the government because certain information still needed to be verified and updated. On Wednesday 7 July in the evening, the note, which was dated and finalized on 3 July, was received in the cabinet of the Minister of Justice. On Thursday 8 July shortly before the start of Question Time, I was informed by the Minister of Justice about the existence of the note. I asked at that time to inform me and the relevant government members as soon as possible about the contents of the note. I went to Parliament at 2.15 p.m. so that I could fulfil my democratic duty by answering the questions asked by Members of Parliament. When I returned to my cabinet around 3.15 p.m., I was briefed by the head of State Security on the precise content of the report and not unimportant in the discussion on the precise recommendations made by the State Security in this matter. It also seems absolutely logical to me that I should have the opportunity to look at the contents of the note and ask the right questions about it. At 4.15 p.m. I had a discussion with the relevant Secretary of State, the Minister to whom she was added and the Minister of Justice responsible for State Security. For a good understanding of the timeline, I would add that on Thursday 8 July, at around 3.30 p.m., the Government Commissioner had already notified her intention to resign to the Secretary of State's cabinet. Neither the Government Commissioner nor the State Secretary had any knowledge of the note at that time. In the course of Friday 9 July, the person in question informed the Secretary of State by letter that she wished to resign from the post to which she had been designated. On Monday 12 July the exchange of views took place in the Chamber, which, of course, discussed the note in question and its confidentiality. In the course of 12 July, the note by State Security was also delivered to the other deputy prime ministers of the government. I can only regret that initially fragments and then the integral note were leaked and published as much as possible. It is not good for the image of our intelligence services and it undermines the important role they have. As regards the original appointment of the Government Commissioner, I have already explained that this decision falls within the competence of the Secretary of State. On 17 May the KB was signed by the State Secretary and the Deputy Prime Minister to whom it was attached. There is no need for formal consultation in the Council of Ministers. According to the Royal Decree, the government commissioner was then appointed on the basis of her experience in the field of public administration and gender equality. There shall be no systematic or prior screening by the Security of the State of all persons appointed as Government Commissioner. This does not, of course, alter the fact that the security of the State, based on its basic mandate and on its information, can always inform the government of persons appointed to public functions. By the way, that's exactly what happened here. The system has therefore done its job in a way, although it has not had any influence this time. The resignation of the Government Commissioner was already established at the time when the relevant members of the government were informed of the contents of the note. Last week, I stressed in detail here that we expect a great deal from government commissioners at the level of integrity and deontology. A government commissioner should not be allowed to provoke controversy or incidents from that role. In this context, cooperation was no longer possible and the government Commissioner decided on his own initiative to resign. In this context, I can also inform you that the competent Secretary of State proposed a successor as government commissioner last week and that the appointment has now been signed by the King. It concerns Mrs Amélie Servotte. I therefore hope that the necessary serenity can be restored to the workings of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, and I hope that this will be sufficiently clear in this dossier. Mr De Roover, you asked if a security clearance is necessary to read a confidential document from State Security. If I read and interpret Article 8 of the Law of 11 December 1998, that is the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u63	Mr Prime Minister, as far as the timeline is concerned, you did not add any new element to what you said last Monday. Are the State Security Documents on the most controversial political issue currently on the Chamber's agenda brought by a turtle? I don't think so, 'cause they'd have gotten there sooner. It'll take 20 hours, and you won't open the document. What strikes me is that you say that it belongs to the function of a government commissioner not to provoke controversy. But she gave an interview, which resulted in a lot of controversy. You didn't take any action. You waited for her to quit. So apparently she's allowed to provoke controversy, contrary to what you're saying here. So, you take note of the State Security report before Mrs. Haouach resigns. That report contains allegations that are not small. There are possible links with the Muslim Brotherhood that are known to want to influence countries and infiltrate, a so-called march by the institutions, possibly supported by demographic developments. We don't need to consult classified documents for that. If you get such a report on a government commissioner and you do not ask the State Security to get to the bottom of it as soon as possible, then you are not working properly, then you are not a reliable guardian of the security of our institutions. For a prime minister, that's manifest failure. You're just sitting there passively, but I know the reason. You have no room for manoeuvre to do what a prime minister should do in such cases. You don't even have room for manoeuvre to organize the orderly protection of our institutions because either you move in one direction and then Ecolo/Green is particularly angry, or you move in another direction and then you get your friend Bouchez over you. That makes you a lame duck. In any case, when you say here that the law should not be changed, you are playing with the fact that words are blowing in the wind. You're talking about contacts with the public. One can then increase the number of meetings of the Governing Board not taking place in the public space. In this way you can, so to speak, comply with the law and at the same time satisfy your left. I suspect I will have to submit a written question in order to look at that timeline. I do not know whether you interpret the law on security clearance properly. I've contacted people who say other things about that. I sincerely hope that you will make statements in this House that are consistent with the truth. That is the absolute minimum. That is why we are tabling a motion in which we ask the government for a number of things. Firstly, to watch over a professionally organized selection of government commissioners, because what has taken place here is an absolute amateurism. Secondly, to ensure that government commissioners behave neutrally in statements, behaviors, attitudes and appearances. I think that a clear line should also be drawn there. Thirdly, a deontological code must be drawn up for this purpose. Fourthly, we call on the government to show clear respect for the Chamber of Representatives, public opinion and the people. I refer to the politically unacceptable fact that you do not fully inform yourself when the information is on your desk, that you do not fully inform yourself when you come to the Chamber to explain important questions. After all, what you are saying here does not remain in this hemisphere. It's gonna be broadcast. That goes to public opinion. The fact that you do not knowingly inform yourself sufficiently is unworthy of your position as Prime Minister. You wrote a book saying you were a feminist. You've abandoned feminism.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u64	Thank you, Prime Minister, for clarifying the timeline. On 17 May there was a KB with the appointment of Mrs Haouach and on 3 July only came the note of State Security. Has the Security of the State done its job properly? Should there be commotion before a note is transferred to this government? This needs further investigation. Mrs Collier was a bit faster at the time. She certainly didn't make it to the Eurovision Song Contest. The Prime Minister has brought news. He announced that Ms Servotte would be the new government commissioner. That means Mrs. Schlitz can look for a new head of the cabinet. I hope Mrs Haouach is not eligible for this. A donkey doesn't hit the same stone twice. However, it seems that you are not concerned with repeating your mistakes. You are clearly not prepared to carry out a screening prior to these appointments. However, such a screening could have saved you a painful loss. Prime Minister, if you are going to answer questions about dossiers in this House in future, and you know at that point that there are State Security notes on these, you must first inform yourself about their content. In this way and out of respect for Parliament, you can at least, and for the sake of change, give an informed answer to the questions we put in Question Time. Finally, for the sake of clarity, freedom of religion and freedom of expression, of course, but not at the expense of our rule of law and our democratic system. For those who are hostile to democracy and free Western society, there is no place in this country, and certainly not in the middle of government, for the extremist Muslim brothers questioning the separation between Church and State. Mr Prime Minister, we too have a motion of recommendation prepared for you. I think it is necessary for this government to succeed. We don't ask for impossible things. That the principle of separation between the Church and the State is confirmed again seems to me to be the obvious thing after this discussion. The fact that this government is clearly opposed to wearing headscarfs during the performance of a public function seems to me also necessary in order to settle this discussion. Despite your refusal, we are still making an attempt and asking in this motion to carry out a thorough screening when appointing government officials.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u65	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Peter De Roover and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Peter De Roover and Mrs Barbara Pas and the Prime Minister's reply, asks the government - ensure a professionally organised selection of government commissioners; - ensure that government commissioners behave neutrally in statements, behaviour, attitude and prevention; - to draw up a deontological code for this purpose, - to show a clear respect for the Chamber of Representatives, public opinion and the public." A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr. Peter De Roover and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mr. Peter De Roover and Mrs. Barbara Pas and the Prime Minister's response, asks the government - to ensure a professionally organised selection of government commissioners; - ensure that government commissioners are neutral in their statements, behaviour, attitude and presentation; - to draw up a code of ethics for this purpose; - to show deep respect for the House of Representatives, public opinion and the public at all times." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Peter De Roover and Mrs Barbara Pas and the Prime Minister's reply, - whereas a note from State Security shows that Ms Haouach is in contact with (members of) the Muslim Bounty; - whereas the purpose of that fundamentalist organisation is the establishment of a State governed by Sharia, and whereas the movement maintains close contacts with terrorist organisations such as Hamas; - considering that Mrs Haouach had written in an interview regretting that Muslims have not yet united in Belgium to put real political pressure; - considering that a thorough screening of government commissioners is insisting; - considering that someone who is ostentatious bears the symbol of the oppression of women within Islam, i.c. the headscarf is not suitable for the function of government commissioner; - whereas in an interview the Prime Minister himself opened the door to wearing the headscarf during the performance of a public function; - whereas the separation between Church and State is one of the basic principles of our democratic rule of law; asks the government - confirm the principle of separation between Church and State as the fundamental principle of our rule of law; - express a clear opposition to wearing headscarfs during the performance of a public function, - to carry out a thorough screening when appointing government officials.' A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mr. Peter De Roover and Mrs. Barbara Pas and the Prime Minister's response, - Whereas it appears from a note by the State Security that Ms. Haouach maintains contacts with (members) of the Muslim Brotherhood; - Considering that the objective of this fundamentalist organization is the creation of a state governed by the Shariah, and that the movement maintains close contacts with terrorist organizations such as Hamas; Whereas Mrs Haouach stated in an interview that she deplored the fact that the Muslims in Belgium had not yet joined together to exert real political pressure; - Whereas thorough filtering of government commissioners is required; - Whereas a person ostensibly wearing the symbol of the oppression of women within Islam, i.e. the veil, is not the person indicated for the office of commissioner of government; - Considering that the Prime Minister himself in an interview left the door open to the wearing of the veil in the exercise of a public office; - Considering that the separation between the Church and the State is one of the fundamental principles of our democratic rule of law; asks the government - to confirm the principle of separation between the Church and the State as the foundation of our rule of law; - to express clearly against the wearing of the veil in the exercise of a public office; - to put in place a thorough screening of the commissioners of government when they are appointed." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. A simple motion was tabled by Mmes Maggie De Block et Melissa Depraetere et MM. Wouter De Vriendt, Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf et Servais Verherstraeten .
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u66	Madam President, I would like to ask the urgency of the simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u67	It's been noted. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u68	Madam President, I will talk about energy in a moment, but I would like to begin by expressing my condolences on behalf of my group and on my own behalf to all those affected by the floods that are raging our country and to all the emergency services that are on the ground everywhere. I myself come from the water sector, so I do not forget the water managers, the hydrologists, the lockkeepers, the dike keepers and the citizens, everyone who is now working in all solidarity on the ground. Madam Secretary, I will speak first about the price of energy. Meanwhile, in almost all newspapers, energy prices are rising rapidly and we hear a lot of alarming reports. The gas price has increased two to three times over a year, the electricity price has increased by 35 to 64 % and specialists say that these prices will continue to rise. As a result, families, SMEs and the self-employed will have to pay a lot of additional payments from this autumn when they receive their final bill. That can cause social dramas. I asked the Committee on Energy to hold a debate on this with you, but that should not continue. Apparently, that wasn't important enough. The chairman of that committee felt that we should not talk about a newspaper article. Members of the governmental parties, in particular from Ecolo-Green and the Socialists, simply left the sitting when this item was raised, so that it could not even be voted on. It was said that I should take it into an interplay. It was not my intention to talk about this, but I found it particularly shocking as we have a Committee on Energy in this House. If the price of energy is going to rise, then we are all concerned and we must all be awake. I therefore assume that Members will not feel that way, given their pay. Madam Secretary, what I bring here is bad news for you, because it puts your credibility at risk. When you took office as a minister, you promised that the invoice would drop, and now the opposite is happening. Why is that? According to specialists, there are two reasons for these price increases. Firstly, there is market forces. The economy is reviving and we can, of course, be happy about that, but there is also the "law" of supply and demand. I place that in quotes, because it is not a law that we have approved here. More economic activity also means more demand for energy products and thus higher prices for electricity and gas. That is crazy, because gas and electricity are basic needs and not commodities. They must remain affordable at all times. That is certainly our law, that energy must remain affordable at all times. This shows once again the bankruptcy of the liberalisation of the energy market. All the other parties here applaud this market operation, but the people are absolutely not served by it. That's what it turns out now. The second cause is actually even more interesting, namely the ETS system. In the European carbon market, the price of CO2 was never so high, the specialists say, and it will increase even further. That is also the intention, among other things, of the European Green Deal, which we have just discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no longer a question of supply and demand, it is a political choice of almost all parties here to increase the CO2 price. However, if the CO2 price is increased, the electricity price will automatically increase, as electricity is produced by gas plants. I am sorry to have to say this, but here we have opted for a perverse system that is antisocial and inefficient. It is said that a higher CO2 price is good for the climate. However, we already have serious doubts about this. What is clear here is that it is bad for people. Madam Secretary, will you do that to help the people? I have a few suggestions. Bring the VAT on electricity back to 6%. That used to be the case, but the previous right-conservative government has reversed it. VAT now amounts to 21 %, such as on luxury products such as caviar, Maserati's and I do not know what. Bring that VAT back to 6%, because energy is a basic requirement. Finally, remove the green current taxes from the invoice, so that the market will at least be compensated. Then I come to the second part of my interview, about the CRM and the new gas plants. I have already said that the price is rising sharply. You're putting on top of that now with the CRM. You said that you would base your policy on facts and figures, and I, as a scientist, am, of course, very happy about that. I have good news for you, because there is a new Adequacy & Flexibility Study by Elia who studied the security of supply of our country. For the first time, it will take into account climate change. That is important, because with the warming of our climate we have less chance of severe winters and cold periods. Of course, this gives a lower peak consumption. The study that first accounts for climate change shows that the need for replacement capacity to compensate for the core exit is heavily overestimated. That is what we and the CREG have been suing for over a year. So far, however, you have refused to take this into account and still rely on old figures that do not take the climate into account. I honestly do not understand that from a green minister who often talks about the climate. In other words, you're throwing taxpayers' money to subsidise Engie Electrabel and his boyfriends. You said in the press that you did everything you could to keep the number of gas plants as low as possible, but that is not right. Madam Minister, it is going to be a bit technical, but I must of course make this point.In the CRM you aim at 3.7 GW of new capacity in 2025, namely 2.3 GW that you want to auction at the first auction in October of this year and 1.4 GW reserved for sustainable technologies, batteries and demand management for the T-1 in 2024. That's what you're still planning. The new figures in Elia's study show that, depending on the scenario, there is no 3.7 GW but only 1.7 GW or 2.4 GW required for non-profitable capacity. These are the figures after an economic viability assessment, after an economic analysis. After all, it is obvious that installations that are profitable on their own do not need a subsidy, I hope. Elia communicates another number, namely 3.6 GW. Quite a coincidence, it's just close to that 3.7 GW of yours. That is very misleading, because that figure applies to the economic analysis and therefore includes the cost-effective capacity. In fact, that is not relevant to the CRM. Moreover, this is the figure of an extremely safe scenario, as Elijah calls it, with some questionable assumptions. I am not going to go into that in more detail, but I would like to know what Europe is going to say about that. Tuesday was Elijah's CEO for a hearing on our committee. I asked him three times why he only communicates about the 3.6 GW, because the other figures I have mentioned are also from Elia's study. Three times I asked, and I didn't get an answer from Elijah's CEO three times. I also found it significant that no party there has responded to that. However, it is a very gross manipulation. I hope that all colleagues are aware that this is actually an accessory to a system that serves to channel hundreds of millions of euros of taxpayers' money to the energy multinationals. Let us take the new figures as our starting point. You'll have to correct me if they don't add up, because of course they're from Elijah's report. It concerns 1.7 to 2.4 GW of new capacity that needs support in order to survive economically. If we deduct 1.4 GW from that which can be reserved for the T-1 auction in 2024, this means that it is actually only necessary to auction this year depending on the scenario 300 MW or 1,000 MW, while you want to auction 2.3 GW. That 300 MW amounts to half a gas plant. So you want to introduce a market-wide CRM for at least 250 million euros per year for less than half a gas plant per year. That seems totally disproportionate to us, which is why I ask again whether you will take into account the results of the new Elia study. You said yourself that the CRM is not a subsidy cannon, but if you want to use EUR 250 million for half a gas plant, I personally think it is a subsidy cannon for the large energy multinationals. Basically, you are paying off the key exit with subsidies for the large energy companies on behalf of consumers and taxpayers. I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u69	Madam President, Minister, I am standing here because I am concerned, perhaps just like you, about the phenomenon of energy prices, electricity and gas, which are blowing out. I also took advantage of the study on the ademucy and flexibility of Elia, because I think, in all serenity, Madam Minister, that there are also a number of challenges there for the price of electricity. The study confirms the need for new own capacity in this country to meet capacity needs. Mr Warmoes, I will not interfere in your war with Elijah, because on Tuesday it was almost war, and with your intellectual battle later with Mr Van der Straeten. Minister Van der Straeten, I'd like to anticipate, because you're going to tell me that I'm gonna throw everything in a pile. But that hope exists effectively in reality. Everything is tied together in the electricity and climate landscape. With the nuclear exit I would remind you that the CEO of operator Electrabel scenario B from the coalition agreement, the lifetime extension of two nuclear power plants, has de facto referred to the wastebasket. Indeed, there is now a need for a CRM with an auction volume that should reflect correctly enough. It has become almost inevitable within a security policy. It is the political choice made by your government, but also by the previous colleagues of the N-VA. I'll get right to the point, Madam Secretary. On Tuesday, because of Elia's CEO, we learned that initial communication about the claim that the cost of a market-wide CRM will be offset by a decrease in wholesale prices and this for the benefit of Belgian consumers, that communication is much more relative than it suggests. Elia's CEO has literally talked about a relative price reduction. He also remained very cautious about the attitude of the suppliers, who are not insignificant actors in this story. The CEO also remained very cautious about the solutions that this government is working on regarding the issue of the availability of surplus production in Europe, which was called for in the Elia study. The choice of very high import dependence proposed in this Vivaldi government's energy policy can not only create additional adequacy problems, but also an additional problem for the affordability of the energy bill. You know better than I do that there is a feasibility study on the submarine cable to Denmark, a project with a price tag. An energy island is also planned in the Princess Elisabeth zone, which is also very important for this cable, and European subsidies can be awarded for this, but there is also a price tag. These are all long-term challenges for the energy bill in this country. We are also still waiting for your solution to the request in the now renowned CRM resolution of 16 July 2020, which called on the government to reduce the total additional costs associated with federal policy on the invoice compared to the reference year 2021, despite the public service obligations imposed on Elia under the CRM. You would make a concrete proposal to Parliament by the end of 2020. That was Mr Wollants's little stick horse, it was discussed here yesterday. One more reason is that recent increases in electricity and gas prices are linked to a tightening of carbon prices, the ETS framework. The current framework makes the prices go up. Yesterday we were presented with Fit for 55 and you know that there is another entanglement coming. Add to this the arrival of one or two more gas plants, and I think this may also have an adverse effect on the price of electricity in the following years. Add to that that Fit for 55 takes the emissions from the transport sector and the heating of buildings into the bath. Fuel and energy producers will have to pay a CO2 tax on fossil fuels and we know what is coming towards us. Life is becoming considerably more expensive for those who can't cope, not just want to That brings me, Madam Secretary, to the 'flexibleness' part of the Elia study, a stick horse of yours as well as optimized charging behaviour and decentralised smart energy systems. I do not often agree with Mr Warmoes, but here I think he has a point. Let me quote him: "When people come home after a day of hard work and start cooking, it is difficult for them to postpone their energy consumption at that time." In our view, electricity is a public good, a basic need that must be affordable for everyone and always, even during peak hours. As far as peak hours are concerned, I do think we still have a long way to go. Meanwhile, Madam Secretary, when I read that China started the construction of a new nuclear reactor. My question is what are you going to do about rising energy prices?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u70	Thank you for your constant questions, colleagues. Mr Warmoes, you catch me in a syllogism with a wrong conclusion. I would like to refer to the famous French writer Eugène Ionesco, who illustrated such a syllogism with the following statement: 'All cats are mortal, Socrates was mortal, so Socrates was a cat'. Following the question you put to me, even clearer syllogism fits: "I fit in my pajamas, my pajamas fit in my suitcase, so I fit in my suitcase." Your question contains a number of different conclusions which are not correct, Mr Warmoes. You bring together figures from different calculations that each had a different objective. You bring all the premises together and you draw the wrong conclusion that much less capacity is needed. I'm declaring myself. In the delivery year 2025 is not aimed at 3.7 gigawatt of new capacity. In the T-4 auction in October, approximately 7.3 gigawatts of capacity are auctioned. We expect that this can lead to 2 to 2.3 gigawatts of new capacity. However, it is quite possible that capacities such as existing demand side management will participate in the T-4 auction, thus reducing the share of new capacity. In the T-1 auction we expect not only new capacities, but also existing capacities to participate. To date, at least more than 650 megawatts of existing demand side management have been in place on the market. In addition, we expect an increase in demand side management and storage, prior to the T-1 auction. So the 1.4 gigawatt reserved for the T-1 auction, is not all new capacity either. Furthermore, the figure of 1.7 gigawatt is also incorrect. Indeed, the CRM is a market-wide system, which aims to finance only that part that market players lack in the market to maintain existing capacity or to build new ones. That way we guarantee our supplies. So it's about the missing money. The figures following the economic viability assessment show that in the EU base scenario there is a need of 2.2 gigawatt or 200 megawatts more than for the economic viability assessment, as some of the existing capacities will not be economically viable in 2025 without intervention. So, your statement about an emergency of 300 megawatts and half a gas plant, are wrong conclusions to the premises you've made, just like I don't fit into my suitcase. Secondly, the study does not at all confirm that the need for replacement capacity is overestimated. The study confirms the need for a CRM and the capacity sizes already known from the previous studies and analyses. In fact, the study shows that the need for capacity, inter alia, due to increasing electrification of heating and transport even increases in the years after 2025. What we will build by 2025 will certainly be useful until 2032. Thirdly, Mr Warmoes, the safe scenario is not extreme. Under the safe scenario, different sensitivities are modulated separately, including the unavailability of the French nuclear park. We have discussed it several times in committee, and I have said it several times already, the base scenario is based on the mid-term adequacy forecast (MAF). The data for the MAF were collected on the basis of previous conventions prior to the new ERAA methodology or the methodology of the European resource adequacy assessment. In the MAF 2020, an explicit disclaimer states that the study cannot be considered an ERAA and was not yet in line with the new methodology. The European Network Managers' Association also indicates that the MAF 2020 should be seen as an optimistic estimate of the European security of supply, as large quantities of new capacity are expected to be available and given that no economic viability assessment has yet been carried out. The French TSO itself takes less favourable assumptions for the availability of French nuclear power stations. The MAF dataset is more optimistic than the effective inability over the past few years. All these data are clearly explained in the reply to the opening decision sent by the Belgian State to the European Commission in October 2020 and which was shared here and published online. The Belgian State guarantees its own supply. If we are interconnected, we do so with the best available information and estimation. In doing so, you can assume that Belgium will not export to France at times of scarcity. Only if that were the case can you say that Belgian consumers and taxpayers pay for problems in France. Mr Warmoes, that too is a syllogism with a wrong conclusion. Belgian consumers pay for a CRM. The CRM takes account of the fact that we cannot always rely on French production, so the Belgian consumer pays for the production problems in France. Again, I don't fit in my suitcase. I take into account the results of the new Elijah study in the further development of my policy. There are very interesting things in it, including digitalisation and electric cars. With regard to the first auction under the CRM, I note that the study confirms the need for a CRM and also confirms the size of the capacity known at the time of the previous studies and analyses. There is therefore no need for a change of course in this respect. There were also questions about the increase in energy prices. Before I go into Mr Warmoes' questions and Mr Ravyts' questions, I would like to say the following. I do not think Parliament has any lessons to learn from the puppet. It is Parliament that has re-indexed the energy funds in current cases. As a temporary corona measure, the current government has extended the social tariff because one in five has difficulty in paying its invoice. The current government has taken that decision, but we must not forget that legislative proposals had already been put forward here in Parliament during the period of current cases and during the corona crisis which had the same subject matter. It is also Parliament that has made the separation between passing on energy billing policies. This is a credit to Parliament. I will not accept that this is being done in a bathtub. In my capacity as Minister, I have always indicated that all questions may be put. It is also Parliament that is giving direction to energy policy, as recently with the resolution on the simplified energy bill. Mr Warmoes and Mr Ravyts asked questions about the wholesale price. Indeed, wholesale prices are rising. It is an international phenomenon, because the economy is recovering. We had very low electricity and gas prices in the 2020 corona crisis. As demand rises again, so does the price. There are also other underlying causes, such as a large wind farm in maintenance, the pump change in Coo that is in maintenance, some gas plants that are in maintenance, but also some gas stocks that are very low and the fact that we are not really talking about summer weather at the moment. The CO2 price is rising in the run-up to Fit for 55. Since yesterday it has risen to EUR 53 per tonne, while last year it was EUR 25 per tonne. This has an impact on future prices. What does this prove, Mr Warmoes and Mr Ravyts? This proves that we urgently need to focus even more on renewable energy. Because there is one form of energy whose price is not rising and whose costs are falling. That's renewable energy. The Fit for 55 contains a lot of social measures, including the creation of a Social Climate Fund to ensure that additional revenues from emissions trading return to European citizens, including to meet the high energy costs for families. The Minister for Climate, my colleague Mr Zakia Khattabi, made it very clear in her response to the Fit for 55 that this aspect of the Fit for 55 is essential. It is essential to ensure that everyone is with us. I would also like to refer to another important element in Elia's Adequacy and Flexibility Study that calculates the socio-economic benefits of ensuring security of supply with a CRM. The CRM brings stable energy prices and a positive investment climate for renewable energy, which will ultimately result in 100 million euro to 300 million euro benefits for society. Allow me to apply a syllogism to your interplay. You're against a CRM. A CRM brings more stable market prices. So you're in favour of high market prices. Allow me to say that this conclusion is not in line with the legitimate concerns expressed in your last question. In any case, it remains essential that citizens, businesses, SMEs continue to compare because the regulator constantly insists that people who do not change suppliers are likely to remain trapped in overpriced contracts. Mr Ravyts, I would like to add the following. You referred to a number of costs, the cost of the energy island and the cost of the submarine cable. Of course, if you are pursuing policy and looking ahead, if you want to build infrastructure for tomorrow, you have to pay for it. However, that is only one part of the story, because we should not only look at costs, we should also look at revenues. The Adequacy and Flexibility study of Elia also charted those revenues. It is about revenue for society, about security of energy supply, about security of green electricity, about more prosperity. We can express that in pennies. This way we can make a positive business case. I close my answer to these interplays with a better wisdom from the same writer, Eugène Ionesco, "Ideologies separate us. Dreams and fears bring us together."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u71	Madam Secretary, you use many difficult words, such as syllogism. I'm talking about energy, and you come up with quotes from Ionesco about cats and pajamas and suitcases. That is all well and good, but it shows how far away you are from the reality of the common man. I will come back to that later. First of all, let me talk about the figures you're magical with. Of course, the 7.3 GW includes the existing capacity because you want a market-wide CRM, but that is not the focus of the discussion right now. The focus of the discussion is the new capacity that we are subsidising. You have repeated the figure of 2,3 GW. That is exactly the figure I mentioned for the auction you want to hold in October. I am somewhat surprised to hear you say that 1.7 GW is not correct. The 1.7 GW is the new capacity needed according to the economic viability analysis. That figure is from Elijah's report, so if you're here to say 1.7 GW is not correct, you're actually saying that Elijah gave the wrong number. I won't be able to replicate everything, but I've noted a few points. As far as this safe scenario is concerned, you say that it is not extreme because we take foreign capacity into account. Do you realise that this is contrary to European rules? The safe scenario that Elijah is now putting forward is very similar to the HiLo scenario that the European Commission wiped off the table two years ago. That is also logical, because the European Commission clearly noted that Article 24.1 of the Electricity Regulation says that additional assumptions can be made about domestic electricity production, but not about foreign electricity production. That's exactly what Elia is doing right now to get that 3.6 GW you want. That's what it's about. You say that you have no lessons to learn from Parliament, but then you have to bring the full story. Why did you come up with a bill to index the Gas and Electricity Fund? Because we had previously come up with a resolution that was much more early than an indexation. Your party and most of the other parties in the committee voted that way. That motion for a resolution called for much more than an indexation, it also called for more resources and a revision of the indexation mechanism itself, as it does not work well enough. That was the demand of a lot of associations, including the King Baudouin Foundation. You pulled one element out of that, it's called cherrypicking. You would put the indexation in order, half a concession to their demand. It is all the better that this has been put right, but that is still not the problem, because the OMCWs still have far too little money to help people in energy poverty. With that, I'll make the link to the Fit For 55 package, which you say everyone is with. I'd like to see that. Your policy is geared to keeping the poorest of the poor out of the water, but the large masses, SMEs and the small self-employed are losing purchasing power. Today, our party has calculated that this represents a loss of purchasing power of hundreds of euros, even with the indexation and surplus of 0.4% that will be imposed by the government in the context of the ipa. We are also concerned about working people, not just those who are dorky and unemployed. Of course, we need to help the latter much more, but we also need to pay attention to the many ordinary, working people who are struggling today. They will fall out of the boat because of all your systems of social rates and so on. These measures are good, but they are not enough. For most people, the energy bill will come very hard, and you haven't really said much about it. You say that the CRM provides a stable market price, but we want a regulated rate, as exists in France. This will ensure a stable price, unlike the yo-yo of the market. We do not believe in that at all, because that means misery for the people. I'm rounding up. Madam President, I have tabled a motion of recommendation by electronic means. We ask the government to reduce VAT on energy to 6%. This is also included in various Vivaldi party election programmes. After all, energy is simply a basic requirement. We also ask the government to stop the T-4 auction that is scheduled for October, because that is lost money. These are simply subsidies for energy multinationals for something that is absolutely unnecessary, as Elijah's figures show.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u72	Madam Minister, yesterday you tweeted the following message: "La sortie du nucléaire n'aura pas d'effet sur les prix de l'énergie." Of two things one, how will you live up to that commitment? As long as a CRM is needed, as long as an enhanced ETS system is in place and as long as there is not enough renewable energy, energy prices will rise, also due to the disappearance of nuclear installations. You said that yourself, and it is basic logic. I really don't understand that story. Madam Secretary, when I read that China started the construction of a new type of nuclear reactor, the SMR of Small Modular Reactor. Here we take mordicus and dogmatic definitive farewell to nuclear production, with all the consequences. Which brings me back to Fit for 55. How can we guarantee that this transition will be socially just? What about whom the investments in solar panels, electric mobility, batteries and heat pumps cannot be achieved? You're talking about a social climate fund. I have already told Mr Gilkinet today that all this remains very vague and that 50% of co-financing from the Member States will also have to be provided. So for Belgium it is about hundreds of millions. I'd like to see it all again. Much remains to be done in the European Council and the European Parliament. Madam President, I have tabled a motion on a digital basis. Madam Minister, I call on you to ensure a socially just climate transition and to ensure that a number of possible future investments are not passed on to the energy bill of families and businesses. I also call on you to organise effectively the national conference on the fair transition provided for in the government agreement. That is actually a message to Mrs Khattabi. Mr Warmoes, we have been asking for years to bring VAT on electricity and gas to 6%, because these are indeed basic needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u73	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr. Thierry Warmoes and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Thierry Warmoes and Kurt Ravyts and the response of the Minister of Energy, - Whereas energy prices have risen sharply and this increase will continue in the coming months; - Considering the commitment made by the Minister and the federal government to reduce the energy bill; - Considering the new adequacy and flexibility study for the period 2022-2032 carried out by the network operator Elia (hereinafter "Elia study"); - Whereas the ministerial decree of 30 April 2021 instructing the system operator to organise the auction four years before the capacity supply period beginning on 1 November 2025, the parameters necessary for the organisation of the above auction, the maximum volume of capacity that may be contracted with all holders of unproven capacity, and raising the minimum volume to be reserved for the auction held one year before the capacity supply period, in accordance with Article 7undecies § 6(1) of the Law of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market (hereinafter "the volume order"); - Whereas the auction volumes referred to in the volume order are amply overestimated and the need for new gas capacity for the period after 2025 is extremely limited; - Whereas, in the absence of additional measures, the CRM mechanism will further increase the price of the energy bill; asks the government: - to take immediate measures to reduce energy tariffs as quickly as possible, inter alia by reducing the rate of VAT on energy to 6 %; - to take into account the results of the new Elia study and to stop the first CRM T-4 auction in October 2021." A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Thierry Warmoes and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Thierry Warmoes and Mr Kurt Ravyts and the reply of the Minister for Energy, - whereas energy prices have risen sharply and will continue to increase in the coming months; - considering the promise of the Minister and the Federal Government to reduce the energy bill; - considering the new adequacy and flexibility study 2022-2032 of network operator Elia (hereinafter "Elia study'); - having regard to the Ministerial Decision of 30 April 2021 instructing the network operator to organise the auction four years for the period of capacity delivery starting on 1 November 2025, the parameters necessary for the organisation of the said auction, the maximum volume of capacity that can be contracted with all holders of unproven capacity, and providing for the minimum reserved volume for the auction organised one year for the period of capacity supply, in accordance with Article 7l, Paragraph 6, first paragraph of the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market (hereinafter the "volume decision'); - whereas auction volumes in the volume decision are heavily overestimated and the need for new gas capacity for the period after 2025 is very minimal; - whereas the CRM will further increase the energy bill without additional measures; asks the government - to take immediate measures to reduce energy prices as quickly as possible, including the reduction of VAT on energy to 6%, - to take into account the results of the new Elia study and to stop the first CRM T-4 auction of October 2021." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Kurt Ravyts and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Thierry Warmoes and Kurt Ravyts and the response of the Minister of Energy, - having regard to the biennial study on adequacy and flexibility for Belgium 2022-2032 conducted by Elia and presented on 25 June 2021 confirming the urgent need for new own capacities in order to be able to cope with the need for capacity generated by the planned exit of nuclear power; - having regard to the Fit for 55 package presented by the European Commission on 14 July 2021, the implementation of which could have a major impact, among other things, on the way of living, heating up, living and moving our people; - having regard to the biannual analysis of the evolution of energy prices for the first half of 2021 published by CREG; - in view of the effects of electricity producers' impact on electricity prices of the increase in the price of emission duties; - in view of the European Commission's plans to increase the price of carbon even further in order to achieve this reduction target by 55%; - having regard to the statements of the CEO of Electrabel that the operator has definitely turned the page of the extension of the life of the two most recent nuclear power plants, making de facto the exit of the nuclear power plant inevitable and will further increase Belgium's dependence on electricity imports; - having regard to the resolution of 16 July 2020 on the mechanism for the remuneration of electricity capacity in which the government was formally requested to reduce the total additional costs of the electricity bill related to the federal policy compared to the reference year 2021, despite the public service obligations imposed on Elia under the capacity compensation mechanism, and to submit to the House of Representatives a concrete proposal on this matter by the end of 2020, the aim of which is to protect the purchasing power of households and the competitiveness of enterprises; - having regard to the statements of the CEO of Elia in Energy Committee that CRM could only lead to a relative decrease in prices (i.e. average prices with and without CRM) for consumers and that there is no certainty as to its impact on the final invoice; - as elements such as Belgium's vulnerability to security of supply in relation to rapid changes in foreign policy, pressure on the availability of surplus production in Europe, uncertainty about the economic model of possible investments in new cross-border transmission capacities, etc. does not provide any certainty as to whether the increase in (renewable) energy imports from abroad will truly mean "welfare gains" for the population; asks the government - in the context of the federal share of the energy bill, to ensure that the energy bill remains affordable and that the subsidy mechanism of the CRM and possible future investments in new transfrontier transmission/interconnectivity capacities (submarine cable, co-financing of an energy island) are therefore not passed on to the energy bill of households and businesses; - in the discussions in the European Council on the European legislative package "Fit for 55", to ensure that energy insecurity does not increase further and, therefore, to support the establishment of a socially just climate transition; - to put into practice as soon as possible the announcement made in the federal government agreement on the organisation of a national conference on equitable transition, in order to meet the challenges of an inclusive climate transition in employment, social policy, reskilling and the economy." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Kurt Ravyts and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Thierry Warmoes and Mr Kurt Ravyts and the reply of the Minister for Energy, - having regard to Elia's biennial Adequacy and Flexibility Study for Belgium 2022-2032, proposed on 25 June 2021, which confirms the urgent need for its own new capacity to meet the capacity needs arising from the planned nuclear exit; - having regard to the Fit for 55-Package proposed by the European Commission on 14 July 2021, which threatens to intervene strongly in the way of life, movement, heating and living, etc. when implemented. of our people; - having regard to the quarterly analysis published by the CREG of the evolution of energy prices for the 1st semester of 2021; - having regard to the impact of the transfer of more expensive emission allowances for electricity producers on the price of electricity, - having regard to the European Commission's plans to further increase the carbon price in the light of the target set at the rate of 55%; - having regard to the judgments of the Electrabel CEO, which state that the operator has finally turned the page on the extension of the life of the two youngest nuclear power plants, thus making the nuclear exit de facto unavoidable and the import dependence of Belgium on the latter. increase electricity; - having regard to the resolution of 16 July 2020 on the capacity compensation mechanism for electricity in which the government was requested to reduce the total federal policy-related additional costs on electricity bill compared to the reference year 2021, despite the public service obligations imposed on Elijah under the capacity compensation mechanism, and to propose a concrete proposal to the Chamber of Representatives by the end of 2020, with the aim of protecting the purchasing power of households and the competitiveness of businesses; - having regard to the statements made by Elia's CEO in the Energy Committee that the CRM could only mean a relative price reduction (average prices with a CRM and without a CRM) for the consumer and it is uncertain what effect there would ultimately be on the final invoice; - in view of the vulnerability of the Belgian security of supply to the rapid changes in foreign policy, the pressure on the availability of production surpluses in Europe, the uncertainty about the business model of possible investments in new cross-border transmission capacity, etc., it is uncertain whether the growing imports of (renewable) energy from abroad will actually lead to "wellage gains" for the population; asks the government - ensure, in the context of the federal share in the energy bill, that the energy bill remains affordable and therefore the CRM grant mechanism and possible future investments in new cross-border transmission capacity/interconnectivity (underground sea cable, co-financing energy island) are not passed on to the energy bill of households and businesses; - ensure that the debates at the European Council on the European legislative package "Fit for 55" do not increase energy poverty further and thus ensure a socially equitable climate transition; - as soon as possible the announcement in the federal government agreement on the organisation of a National Conference on the Fair Transition to address and effectively implement the challenges of an inclusive climate transition in the areas of employment, social policy, reskilling and economy." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Ms Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Wouter De Vriendt, Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf et Servais Verherstraeten. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mr Servais Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u74	Madam President, we are asking for the vote on our simple motion at high speed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u75	It's noted. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u76	Voters 91 Stemmen White or invalid 12 Blank or invalid Valid 79 Geldig Two-thirds majority 53 Two-thirds majority The following preference votes were recorded: The following preferred votes were counted: For the Commission de nomination de langue française: 1. As a magistrate: M. Adrien van de Linden d. Hooghvorst a obtenu 76 voix. 2. As an external member: Catherine Halluent obtained 76 votes. For the Netherlands Language Appointment Commission: 1. As a magistrate: Mr. Bart Van Den Bergh obtained 76 votes. 2. As an external member: Mr Bernard Derveaux obtained 76 votes. For the French-speaking Appointments Committee: 1. As magistrate: Mr Adrien van de Linden d. Hooghvorst received 76 votes. 2. As an external member: Mrs Catherine Halluent received 76 votes. For the Dutch Appointments Committee: 1. As magistrate: Mr Bart Van Den Bergh received 76 votes. 2. As an external member: Mr Bernard Derveaux received 76 votes. Accordingly, the following are hereby elected alternate members of the Committees of Appointment for the Notariat: For the Commission de nomination de langue française: 1. As a magistrate: M. Adrien van de Linden d. Hooghvorst. 2. As an external member: Mrs. Catherine Halluent. For the Netherlands Language Appointment Commission: 1. As a magistrate: Mr. Bart Van Den Bergh. 2. As an external member: Mr. Bernard Derveaux. Consequently, alternate members of the Notarial Appointment Committees shall be elected as follows: For the French-speaking Appointments Committee: 1. As magistrate: Mr Adrien van de Linden d. Hooghvorst. 2. As an external member: Mevrouw Catherine Halluent. For the Dutch Appointments Committee: 1. As magistrate: Mr Bart Van Den Bergh. 2. As an external member: Mr Bernard Derveaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u77	This is the result of the naturalization vote. (2058/1-2) This is the result of the secret vote on naturalizations. (2058/1-2) Number of voters 73 Number of votes Votes valables 70 Valid votes Absolute majority 36 Perfect majority As the quorum has not been reached, a new ballot will be held after the parliamentary holidays. No observation? (No) That will be the case. Since the quorum was not reached, a new secret ballot will be set up after the parliamentary recess. Are you sure you don't mind? No) It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u78	Secret votes for appointment: - a French-speaking member and a Dutch-speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority (No. 2039/1); - an effective Dutch-speaking member of the office of the Central Prison Supervision Board (2119/1); - an effective Dutch-speaking member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights (2120/1), remain open until Thursday 23 September 2021, 4 p.m., but will be suspended during the parliamentary holidays, i.e. from 21 July to 10 September 2021. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. The secret ballots for the appointment of: - a Dutch-speaking member and a French-speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority (No. 2039/1); - a Dutch-speaking, effective member of the Bureau of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Service (No. 2119/1); - a Dutch-speaking, effective member of the board of directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights (No. 2120/1), remain open until Thursday 23 September 2021, 16 hours, but will be suspended during the parliamentary recess, from 21 July to 10 September 2021. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u79	By letter dated February 1, 2021, Ms. Eline Van De Weghe resigned as Clerk of the Standing Committee on Police Services, effective May 1, 2021. By letter of 1 February 2021, Ms Eline Van De Weghe shall resign as Registrar of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision, with effect from 1 May 2021. Pursuant to section 5 of the Police and Intelligence Review Act of 18 July 1991 and the Threat Analysis Coordinating Body, the Clerk of the Standing Committee on Police Services Control is appointed by the House. In accordance with Article 5 of the Law of 18 July 1991 regulating the supervision of police and intelligence services and the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis, the Chamber appoints the Registrar of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. It is therefore up to the House to appoint a new clerk. The Chamber should therefore appoint a new Registrar. The bill amending the Police and Intelligence Review Act of 18 July 1991 and the Threat Analysis Coordinating Body to extend the conditions for the appointment of the respective clerks of the Standing Committee R and Standing Committee P was adopted during the plenary session of 8 July 2021. At the plenary session of 8 July 2021, the draft law amending the Law of 18 July 1991 regulating the supervision of police and intelligence services and the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis was adopted in order to extend the conditions for the appointment of the respective Registrars of the Standing Committee I and of the Standing Committee P. Therefore, candidates must no longer have a master's degree in law, but rather a master's degree relevant to the performance of their duties. Consequently, candidates should no longer have a master's degree in law, but a master's degree relevant to the performance of their duties. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 July 2021, I propose that you publish a call for candidates for the Belgian Monitor. In order to assess the requirement of knowledge of the French and Dutch languages, it is proposed to require a level of linguistic knowledge corresponding to the language certificate "Article 12" of the Selor. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 July 2021, I propose that you publish a call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. As regards the assessment of the condition of knowledge of the Dutch and French languages, it is proposed to require a level of linguistic knowledge corresponding to Selor's "Article 12" language certificate. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u80	By letter dated January 16, 2020, Mr. Wouter de Ridder, Clerk of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services, announced that he would retire on December 1, 2020. By letter dated 16 January 2020, Mr Wouter de Ridder, Registrar of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services, informed that he would retire on 1 December 2020. By letter dated April 24, 2020, Mr. Serge Lipszyc, Chair of Committee R, requested that the House initiate the procedure for the appointment of a new Clerk of Committee R, given that the current Clerk was currently absent due to illness and that his retirement was scheduled for December 1, 2020. By letter dated 24 April 2020, Mr Serge Lipszyc, Chairman of the Committee I, asked the Chamber to initiate the procedure for the appointment of a new Registrar of the Committee I, since the current Registrar is currently absent due to illness and his pension is scheduled for 1 December 2020 Pursuant to section 29 of the Police and Intelligence Review Act of 18 July 1991 and the Threat Analysis Coordinating Body, the Clerk of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services is appointed by the House. In accordance with Article 29 of the Law of 18 July 1991 regulating the supervision of police and intelligence services and the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis, the Registrar of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services is indeed appointed by the Chamber. It is therefore up to the House to appoint a new clerk. The Chamber should therefore appoint a new Registrar. The bill amending the Police and Intelligence Review Act of 18 July 1991 and the Threat Analysis Coordinating Body to extend the conditions for the appointment of the respective clerks of the Standing Committee R and Standing Committee P was adopted during the plenary session of 8 July 2021. At the plenary session of 8 July 2021, the draft law amending the Law of 18 July 1991 regulating the supervision of police and intelligence services and the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis was adopted in order to extend the conditions for the appointment of the respective Registrars of the Standing Committee I and of the Standing Committee P. Therefore, candidates must no longer have a master's degree in law, but rather a master's degree relevant to the performance of their duties. Consequently, candidates must no longer have a master's degree in law, but a master's degree relevant to the performance of their duties. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 July 2021, I propose that you publish a call for candidates for the Belgian Monitor. In order to assess the requirement of knowledge of the French and Dutch languages, it is proposed to require a level of linguistic knowledge corresponding to the language certificate "Article 12" of the Selor. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 July 2021, I propose that you publish a call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. As regards the assessment of the condition of knowledge of the Dutch and French languages, it is proposed to require a level of linguistic knowledge corresponding to Selor's "Article 12" language certificate. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u81	The Government requested urgency in accordance with Article 51 of the Regulation when the preliminary draft law approving the cooperation agreement between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the French Community, the German-speaking Community, the Joint Community Commission, the Walloon Region and the French Community Commission concerning the processing of data relating to the EU Digital VOCID certificate and the Covid Safe Ticket, the PLF and the processing of personal data of employees and self-employed persons living or residing abroad carrying out activities in Belgium, No 2129/1. The Government requested the urgency declaration pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the preliminary draft law approving the Cooperation Agreement between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the French Community, the German-speaking Community, the Joint Community Committee, the Walloon Region and the French Community Commission on the processing of data relating to the EU-COVID digital certificate, the Covid Safe Ticket, the PLF, and the processing of personal data of employees or self-employed persons residing or residing abroad who carry out activities in Belgium, No. 2129/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u82	Madam President, this is not a surprise because we have already talked about it at previous meetings. We call for the urgency of text No. 2129, which is a cooperation agreement that unites all the entities of this country around the topics of the Covid Safe Ticket, PLF and personal data processing. Yesterday, an electronic consultation committee was held to follow up on our discussions. The text has not been amended. We therefore wish to obtain the urgency to be able to put to the vote, on Monday as agreed, this text which, to my knowledge, will not be amended.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u83	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u84	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u85	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the National Defence Commission on July 5, 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Defence Commission of 5 July 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 149/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Annick Ponthier; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Christophe Lacroix. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 149/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Annick Ponthier; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Christophe Lacroix. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the tragic story of the late military Jürgen Conings has revealed many flawed elements within our defence apparatus. Not only have there been serious errors in the flow of information and other shortcomings in an internal report and in the in-depth report of Committee I, but also the need for more attention to be paid to performing and systematic psychological support for military personnel during their career, not only but also after an operation at home or abroad. It is true that the Minister of Defence, in reply to my questions and interplay a few weeks ago, informed us of all the facilities offered to military personnel. In theory there is a multidisciplinary support and various services within Defence have the task of tracking the military during their career, including operations. We must, however, dare to say that this seems to reveal, above all, a difference between theory and practice, in which the psychological guidance of the military returning from missions appears to be inadequate. Asking how things are going and whether everything is going well may be well-intentioned, but it doesn't respond at all to the concerns and needs of a person who is potentially difficult to express in a defence-related environment the experience of mental or psychological problems. However, it often comes down to this in practice, so personal testimonies of soldiers teach us. Psychological or mental problems in general, but certainly due to experiences on a military mission, are often still seen as a sign of weakness, of the attitude of a wimp or of being unable to cope with the harsh world that Defence is. So they are not always expressed spontaneously. That makes sense. Having said that, it is therefore difficult to get a clear view of the figures relating to the psychological support of soldiers or to the question of how many soldiers are being treated by a psychologist. After all, many people only seek help afterwards, and then still in the civilian world. It would certainly not be possible to establish whether the psychological guidance could be linked to participation in an operation. In view of all this, the figures given by the Minister seem to be an understatement of the real situation. It can generally be said that soldiers do not receive spontaneous guidance after one or the other traumatic event. The symptoms of the effects of a PTSD, a post-traumatic stress disorder, do not arise until after years. There are often very sad and poignant stories to come up when one speaks to soldiers who are in such situations or who are wrong. Military fleeing from their problems as a result of traumatic experiences, losing the bond with their partner or their family and retreating into a bubble. As a result, they fall into one foreign operation after another, which actually pushes the problems ahead and only late, sometimes too late or not, deal with them as they should. So that's harrowing, and often really sad. An adjustment in the field and a change in mentality is therefore also necessary. The assistance currently provided is well-intentioned, but in practice it is inadequate. That is why I tabled a motion for a recommendation in the Committee on Defence in which we ask the government to urgently address this challenge. That is, after all, very clearly necessary. I therefore hope that colleagues, unlike in committee, will support this motion here in plenary. I'm counting on their common sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u87	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u88	Yes 82 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u89	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Commission on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions on 6 July 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions of 6 July 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 152/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Maria Vindevoghel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Nicolas Parent. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 152/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Maria Vindevoghel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Nicolas Parent. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, like many large cities, Ghent is also facing a serious housing crisis. More than 11,000 people are on the waiting list for a social home and over 2,000, including many children, are homeless or homeless. In 2003 a house in Ghent cost an average of 92,000 euros. Today, an average house costs 234,000 euros. That is 2.5 times more than ten years ago and we can see that prices are still rising. The Arsenaalsite in Ghent can already save the Moscouwijk in Gentbrugge, but also for all Gentenaars. The site is about 13 hectares large. That is about 15 football fields, which are owned by SNCB. For SNCB, the sites are no longer useful. So they want to get rid of it. The city of Ghent has already shown interest in this large piece of land in the center of Ghent to develop it in everyone's interest. However, SNCB quickly indicated that the 25 million euros that the city is willing to pay is not enough. SNCB wanted to sell the site by auction to or several real estate barons. The Gentenars don't agree to that. The citizens have taken action. They've started a petition, they've written a letter and debates have been organized. With the PVDA base groups in Ghentbrugge we have questioned the neighborhood residents. This almost unanimously shows that the city of Ghent needs to get its hands on the Arsenal site so that it can develop it itself, with due attention for social housing. The PVDA has already found a legal solution. Governments can expropriate one another. By applying Article 159 of the Law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises, the city of Ghent can obtain the entire site at the estimated price. That would make sense, too. Now the Arsenal site is in public hands through SNCB. It has to stay that way through the city of Ghent. The ordinary people in Ghent think that makes sense. That is possible, but the Minister for Mobility must take action in this respect. He can direct SNCB to the expropriation of the Arsenal site by the city of Ghent. We have tabled a motion to that effect. In the meantime, the city administration and the Minister for Mobility have also partly changed the gun. From the debates in the committee and beyond, we have now learned that the city of Ghent, including the parties Vooruit and Groen, is satisfied with a piece of a piece of the terrain, that is to say with a shell. We cannot agree to that. With a piece of a piece one cannot make the difference. So the PVDA wants the full expropriation of the Arsenal site. It is of social importance to do so today more than ever. This would be a good solution for all engineers and we hope you will support us in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u91	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u92	Yes 96 Yes No. 36 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 134 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u93	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 162/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Peter De Roover; - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 162/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Peter De Roover; - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs. Maggie De Block. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u94	Madam President, I am not asking for an explanation of vote, but simply to say that Mr De Spiegeleer is not notified.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u95	Madam President, Mr Lacroix, for the reasons we can guess, has a hard time connecting. It happens that at times, he loses his internet connection because of the calamities that affect his region.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u96	Madam President, in the same vein, it is my colleague Julie Chanson from Theux who is also affected by the weather. She apologizes and asks if you will allow her vote to be counted as that of the Ecolo-Groen Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u97	It's recorded.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u98	Madam Chair, for vote 2, on motion 162, the entire cdH group voted in favour because there were small shells. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u99	We are recording the vote for the entire cdH group on vote 2. Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u100	Yes [[80]] Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 141 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u101	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 164/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Thierry Warmoes; - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Kurt Ravyts; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Wouter De Vriendt. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 164/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Thierry Warmoes; - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Kurt Ravyts; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Wouter De Vriendt. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u102	Yes 79 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 138 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u103	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u104	Yes 87 Yes Non 0 No. Abstensions 53 Abstentions Total 140 Total Accordingly, the Board adopts the 2020 accounts. Consequently, the Court adopts the 2020 accounts. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u105	Vote on Amendment No 52 by Barbara Beware of Article 2.(1951/16) Vote on amendment No 52 by Barbara Not to article 2.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u106	Yes [[42]] Yes No. 100 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 79 by Vanessa Matz to Article 2.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 79 by Vanessa Matz to Article 2.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u107	Yes [[8]] Yes No. 104 No Abstentions 30 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 66 by Peter De Roover cs on article 2.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 66 by Peter De Roover cs to Article 2.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u108	Yes 49 Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 53 by Barbara Beware of Article 3.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 53 by Barbara Not to Article 3.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u109	Yes [[42]] Yes No. 100 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 67 by Peter De Roover cs on article 3.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 67 by Peter De Roover cs to Article 3.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u110	Yes 59 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 54 by Barbara Beware of Article 3.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No. 54 by Barbara Not to Article 3.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u111	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 101 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 68 by Peter De Roover cs on article 3.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 68 by Peter De Roover cs to Article 3.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u112	Yes 49 Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 46 by François De Smet on Article 4.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 46 by François De Smet to Article 4.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u113	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 41 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 55 by Barbara Beware of Article 4.(1951/16) Vote on amendment No. 55 by Barbara Not to article 4.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u114	Yes [[42]] Yes No. 100 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 69 by Peter De Roover cs on article 4.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 69 by Peter De Roover cs to Article 4.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u115	Yes [[43]] Yes No. 97 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 78 by Peter De Roover cs on article 4.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 78 by Peter De Roover cs to Article 4.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u116	Yes [[45]] Yes No. 97 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 70 by Peter De Roover cs on article 4.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 70 by Peter De Roover cs to Article 4.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u117	Yes [[60]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 80 by Vanessa Matz on Article 4.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 80 by Vanessa Matz to Article 4.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u118	Yes [[37]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 49 by François De Smet on Article 4.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 49 by François De Smet to Article 4.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u119	Yes 44 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 56 by Barbara Beware of Article 4.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No. 56 by Barbara Not to Article 4.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u120	Yes [[40]] Yes No. 100 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 48 by François De Smet on Article 4.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No. 48 by François De Smet to Article 4.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u121	Yes 61 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 62 by Vanessa Matz on Article 4.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 62 by Vanessa Matz to Article 4.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u122	Yes [[37]] Yes No. 105 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 72 by Peter De Roover cs on article 4.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 72 by Peter De Roover cs to Article 4.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u123	Yes 61 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 47 by François De Smet on Article 4.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 47 by François De Smet to Article 4.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u124	Yes 36 Yes No. 104 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 57 by Barbara Beware of Article 4.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 57 by Barbara Not to Article 4.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u125	Yes [[41]] Yes No. 100 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 81 by Vanessa Matz on Article 4.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 81 by Vanessa Matz to Article 4.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u126	Yes 59 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 71 by Peter De Roover cs on article 4.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 71 by Peter De Roover cs to Article 4.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u127	Yes [[60]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 73 by Peter De Roover cs on article 5.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 73 by Peter De Roover cs to Article 5.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u128	Yes [[55]] Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 63 by Nabil Boukili on Article 5.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 63 by Nabil Boukili to Article 5.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u129	Yes [[14]] Yes No. 127 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 64 by Nabil Boukili on Article 5.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 64 by Nabil Boukili to Article 5.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u130	Yes [[14]] Yes No. 127 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 51 by Nabil Boukili on Article 5.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 51 by Nabil Boukili to Article 5.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u131	Yes [[14]] Yes No. 127 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 65 by Nabil Boukili on Article 5.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 65 by Nabil Boukili to Article 5.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u132	Yes [[14]] Yes No. 127 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 82 by Vanessa Matz on Article 6.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 82 by Vanessa Matz to Article 6.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u133	Yes [[25]] Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 58 by Barbara Beware of Article 9.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 58 by Barbara Not to Article 9.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u134	Yes [[41]] Yes No. 100 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 59 by Barbara Beware of Article 10.(1951/16) Vote on amendment No 59 by Barbara Not to article 10.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u135	Yes [[41]] Yes No. 100 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 60 by Peter De Roover cs on article 11.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 60 by Peter De Roover cs to Article 11.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u136	Yes [[43]] Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 61 by Peter De Roover cs on article 12.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 61 by Peter De Roover cs to Article 12.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u137	Yes [[43]] Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 76 by Peter De Roover cs to insert an article 15/1 (n).(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 76 by Peter De Roover cs to insert an Article 15/1 (n).(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u138	Yes 44 Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 77 by Peter De Roover cs on article 16.(1951/16) Vote on Amendment No 77 by Peter De Roover cs to Article 16.(1951/16) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u139	Yes [[43]] Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u140	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u141	Yes 78 Yes No. 59 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u142	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u143	Yes 124 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 136 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u144	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u145	Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u146	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u147	Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u148	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u149	Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u150	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u151	Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u152	Vote on Amendment No 15 by Recino Van Lommel to Article 5.(1036/12) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Recino Van Lommel on Article 5.(1036/12) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u153	Yes [[19]] Yes No. 96 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u154	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u155	Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u156	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u157	Yes 108 Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 137 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u158	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u159	Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 138 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u160	Vote on Amendment No 33 by Marco Van Hees to amend Article 14. (2070/11) Vote on Amendment No 33 by Marco Van Hees amending Article 14. (2070/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u161	Yes [[12]] Yes No. 121 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 34 by Marco Van Hees to insert an Article 14/1. (2070/11) Vote on Amendment No 34 by Marco Van Hees to insert an article 14/1. (2070/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u162	Yes 13 Yes No. 121 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 35 by Marco Van Hees to insert an article 14/1. (2070/11) Vote on Amendment No 35 by Marco Van Hees to insert an article 14/1. (2070/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u163	Yes [[12]] Yes No. 121 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 36 by Marco Van Hees amending article 15. (2070/11) Vote on Amendment No 36 by Marco Van Hees amending Article 15. (2070/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u164	Yes [[12]] Yes No. 121 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 15 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 15 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u165	Vote on Rules 34 to 41. (2070/10) Vote on Articles 34 to 41 [[.]] (2070/10) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u166	Yes 99 Yes No. [[25]] No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, Articles 34 to 41 were adopted. Articles 34 to 41 are therefore adopted. Vote on Rules 42 to 52. (2070/10) Vote on Articles 42 to 52 [[.]] (2070/10) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u167	Yes 112 Yes No. [[25]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, Articles 42 to 52 were adopted. Accordingly, articles 42 to 52 were adopted. Vote on Rules 54 and 55. (2070/10) Vote on Articles 54 and 55 [[.]] (2070/10) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u168	Yes 112 Yes No. 24 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, Articles 54 and 55 were adopted. Accordingly, articles 54 to 55 were adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u169	Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u170	Yes [[80]] Yes No. 24 No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u171	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u172	Yes 127 Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u173	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Kathleen Depoorter to Article 2.(2097/6) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Kathleen Depoorter on article 2.(2097/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u174	Yes [[41]] Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck to Article 5.(2097/6) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck on Article 5.(2097/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u175	Yes 7 Yes No. [[109]] No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Kathleen Depoorter to Article 6.(2097/6) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Kathleen Depoorter on article 6.(2097/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u176	Yes [[41]] Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u177	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u178	Yes 96 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 42 Abstensions Total 138 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u179	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u180	Yes 98 Yes No. [[17]] No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 139 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u181	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u182	Madam President, the fact that the majority voted against this bill in committee is not a motion of censure against the Jewish community. That was the message I had to give to people over the last few days who do not understand what is so reprehensible about my resolution. What's it about? On September 1st, the soldiers are taken off the streets. The military will go home, but the increased level of threat will continue to exist. It's the Crisis Center and the OCAD that determine the threat level in our country. Level 3 means that the threat of an attack is possible and likely. Among other things, it concerns the American and Israeli Embassy. They have their own security. However, it is also about targets of Jewish communities, such as cultural centers, prayer houses and schools. My resolution does not call for anything world-shattering, just for the withdrawal of troops to be taken into account and for an equivalent level of security to be guaranteed, including from the federal government, with the necessary financial resources. We are now six weeks before 1 September, but there are signs from all directions that no concrete step has yet been taken in this direction. The Chiefs of Staff of Antwerp and Brussels are also very concerned because nothing has yet been settled. In this country it is difficult to deal with a crisis, so much has been demonstrated by the approach of COOVID-19, but in this matter the government organises its own crisis by doing nothing. That's guilty negligence. However, the threat is not imaginary. Many attacks have already taken place against Jewish institutions around the world, and also closer to home, with attacks in France, Austria, Germany and, not to mention, even here in Brussels a few years ago. Nevertheless, the majority of the parties are voting against my resolution today. I have tried to explain to the members of the Jewish community that this is certainly not a vote against them, not a motion of censure against the Jewish community. They ask me what it is. It's pure, flat party politics, unfortunately. Despite playing political games and voting against everything that comes from us, I reach out to you. Many of you have been given a book over the last few hours, a book of photos and poems, with photos of the Jewish community. Maybe you can check that out during the summer break and read the poems. In any case, I hope, from my heart, that from the next parliamentary year in September we will be able to work constructively together on important issues such as the subject mentioned and that the new policy, which has been announced for so long, will take shape quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u183	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u184	Yes 88 Yes Non 44 No. Abstensions 3 Abstentions Total 135 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1413/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1413/1 was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u185	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u186	Yes 92 Yes Non 45 No. Abstensions 1 Abstentions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1976/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1976/1 was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u187	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u188	Yes 80 Yes Non 35 No. Abstensions 21 Abstentions Total 136 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1426/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1426/1 was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip122x.u189	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting on Monday, 19 July, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Monday 19 July at 2.15 p.m.
