ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u1	Madam Secretary, I will start with a number of questions about the fire that started on the roof of BOZAR. Apparently, the fire department was able to intervene in time, so the fire didn't skip to the inside of the building. However, there would be a lot of water damage. Thus the organ in the Henri Le Boeufzaal would have been damaged. How great is the additional damage to the infrastructure and to the works of art? What exhibits were there at the time? Has there been an estimate of the damage? What about the insurance? Does it come in between and for what amount? Is there any clarity as to the cause of the fire? Nothing has yet been said about this. Was there a dossier submitted to the European Recovery Fund in the context of the relay policy? For what amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u2	Minister, a fire is always a disaster and the fire of a prestigious building is all the more so. We still have in memory the images of the fire of Notre-Dame de Paris which created an international melody. We are not on this scale but BOZAR is undoubtedly an element of our national heritage and I think that this fire hit many Belgians on 18 January. There was practically no one in the building. We can have cold sweats a posteriori by imagining the important consequences if there had been an audience in this vast building. It is also hoped that the two firefighters who were injured during the intervention will recover, which shows that their occupation is very dangerous at all times. We really hope they can recover. The first question we ask ourselves is what is the cause of this fire. Do you have more information about this? What is the extent of the damage? Do you have any idea of the damage caused by the fire and water damage? Of course, water is needed to extinguish the fire, but water also causes a lot of damage, which must be repaired afterwards. There is also a lot of concern about the organ of the prestigious Henry Le Boeuf Hall, whose renovation lasted for some time and ended in 2017, after 50 years of silence. He's hit hard again, and he's going to have to go through a lot of repairs. As far as insurance is concerned, are fire insurance records in order? Are they not too slowing down the emergency measures that should be taken in a building where part of it is classified? That is one of the concerns of all. The cultural sector was already heavily affected by health measures. What about the financial situation which was also worrying about the damage? Is there coverage by the insurer or other stakeholders? What will be the financial consequences for the institution? As far as the organ is concerned, what is the extent of the damage? To what extent can it be restored to working order? In what calendar? When can the activities be resumed, perhaps in phases, within this prestigious institution, which is BOZAR in Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u3	Mr President, I refer to my written question, reiterating my sympathies to the staff of BOZAR, who had their heart tight when they saw the flames ravaging this cultural gem of our country. Minister, According to reports in various media, the Bozar Board of Directors was to decide this Friday on the modalities of the call for applications for the position of Managing Director of Bozar. While a number of cultural institutions and theatres are renewing their leadership through innovative selection processes - strengthening equal opportunities, transparency, openness to the outside world - one can wonder about the risk of relaunching a call for applications by following the same rules that have led us to the impasse today. There is also an urgent need to appoint a person to this position in view of the challenges facing the institution. My questions are therefore as follows. - What future for the former Director General within the institution? - Who ensures the policy of cultural programming during this intermediate period? - What's the profile for the next general manager? How will the recruitment process be organised? - What is the timing of the appointment of the future Director General?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u4	Madam Minister, I will not repeat the introduction, which has already been sufficiently outlined here and sufficiently published in the press. I shall confine myself to the list of my questions. Has the damage to the building been calculated? If so, what amount is it? I'm asking the same question about the furniture. Has the commercial damage been calculated as a result of the temporary closure? Is the city of Brussels being asked to make a financial contribution? Are the regions asked to make a financial contribution? If yes, which regions are they talking about? What was their response, if that question has already been asked? I read that several partners were called up to jump through donations. Which partners are we talking about? Finally, a campaign has also been launched that calls on sympathizers and partners to put their money into the bag. I'd like to know what the price tag of that campaign is in itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u5	Mr President, Minister, I will not repeat everything, but first I would like to pay my respects to the firefighters who have done an incredible job, and even firefighters have been injured. I'll come to the questions. Has the report of the fire experts been drawn up in the meantime? What exactly was the cause of the fire? Is asbestos present in the building? Was there a danger to the neighbors during the fire? Does BOZAR have sufficient own financial resources to repair the damage? Has the insurance company already paid BOZAR an amount? Did BOZAR ask for financial assistance from the federal government? Will the federal government help BOZAR financially to carry out the renovation? We have heard that crowdfunding is also being organised to help finance the renovation. How much has it brought to this day? What amount is BOZAR hoping to raise through this crowdfunding?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u6	Mr Vandenbroucke has just arrived, but I shall first give the floor to Mrs Verhaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u7	Madam Minister, the situation has already been well outlined by the previous speakers. This affects everyone a bit, for the staff, the management and the Belgian culture lovers this fire is a wake-up call. I'll go straight to my questions. Could you clarify the damage caused by the fire? Is there any clarity on the cause of the fire? Does anyone know how the damage will be repaired?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Mr Vandenbroucke, we were obviously looking forward to hearing from you, but above all we look forward to answering your question. You're being fucked up a little bit, but it's a friendship! Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank you for your attention to the jewel of BOZAR because we all have this institution at heart and body. Like you, I learned this Monday, January 18, 2021, that a fire had been declared on the roof of the Palace. At that time, the Palace was closed to the public. As a result, the number of people in the premises was reduced and the personnel were safely evacuated. At the staff level, there are no casualties, but it is true that we have teams of brave firefighters who always respond to distress calls. Too often we forget how much they risk for their lives or for their health. We therefore have a thought for the firefighters in general and for those who were injured during this particular intervention. The building was damaged. On the other hand, as far as works are concerned, no work has been damaged, which is good news. I went there a few hours later, as long as everything was set up a little bit, and I was able to see the extent of the disaster, while the fire was still raging. I also went back to the scene later. So it is with pleasure that I share with you what is happening on the spot. As regards the question about the origin of the fire, we have not yet received the written conclusion of the judicial expertise. So I can't say anything more about that. Nevertheless, the expertise seems to show that the fire started in a technical cabin in the rooftop over the Henry Le Boeufzaal. The fire then spread quickly from this technical space. I was able to collect this information that night by talking to the technicians who discovered the fire. With regard to timing, the fire was detected by the safety systems at 3:57 p.m. on 18 January. Firefighters arrived at 4:12 p.m. Dozens of firefighters were mobilized and managed to control the fire at around 9:30 p.m. There was a fire station on site until 7:30 a.m. the next day, to avoid fire departures. The fire detection system worked perfectly and thanks to the alarm the Palace of Fine Arts could be evacuated. The fire department has done remarkable work. The expertise will determine whether certain lessons should be learned. The damage is indeed considerable. I will try to be as complete as possible, even though the expertise is still in progress. Two technical cabins with the drive groups of the halls of the royal circuit and the second balcony of the Henry Le Boeufzaal were destroyed by fire. The roofing of a number of rooms has been partially destroyed, as well as a small part of the roof of the Henry Le Boeufzaal. The technical installation spread over the roofing of the exhibition halls has also been affected. Furthermore, there is considerable water damage throughout the southern part of the museum. The first damage observed include loose ceilings and stucco, swollen parquet floors and seats damaged by the fire-fighting water in the concert hall. In the main concert hall Henry Le Boeuf there is water damage mainly on the right in front of the stage and on the organ. As far as the exhibitions are concerned, the circuit on the Koningsstraat is the hardest hit. I'll come back to the organ. Also, as you know, the doors to maintain acoustics have also taken water. When I came by, it was visible that they were starting to inflate. We will therefore have to see how this will evolve. To answer the specific question about the organ, I confirm that it was seriously damaged by water. The fire took on the roof, and the firefighters were there to fight it. As a result, the water leaked into the room. The damage is of two types. First, they caused immediate degradation of wood materials. Then they started corroding the electrical and electronic components, which could lead to a loss of functionality. Special safeguard measures were taken to assess their condition and to examine the extent to which the organ could be preserved. At the time of the fire four exhibitions were held: "Hotel Beethoven," "Danser Brut," "Facing Van Eyck" and "Philippe Vandenberg." Molenbeek." The circuit of the Koningsstraat is most affected and fortunately the exhibition "Danser Brut" that ran there just ended. This was also the case for Philippe Vandenberg's exhibition. Meanwhile, the works have been evacuated and experts curators have prepared a report on their state. They've confirmed there's no damage. A large part of these rooms cannot be used until further notice. Another large exhibition circuit on the side of the Ravensteinstraat has remained virtually intact. However, BOZAR decided to close the doors of the exhibition "Hotel Beethoven," which would normally run until 14 February, after the fire for safety reasons. At this point, it is still not possible to say when the Henry Le Boeuf Hall can open. Its activities are thus currently suspended until 31 March inclusive. A regular monitoring of the works will determine as soon as possible whether the concerts scheduled for 1 April to 30 June can take place. The Board of Directors on February 5 confirmed the teams' willingness to ensure that the Queen Elizabeth Competition could be held as agreed in the Henry Le Boeuf Hall in May. All teams are mobilized in this direction. You know how important this competition is for music lovers, for Belgium on the international stage. The exhibitions "Facing Van Eyck" and "Primorial Earth" by Léonard Pongo were reopened on 28 January. Since the north circuit is not affected, the planned programming can continue. It is not yet possible to quantify precisely the financial consequences of the fire. The estimation of the consequences will depend on the current expertise, the estimates made for the repair of the damage and the amounts covered by the insurances. The Palace has an insurance policy. The Régie des Bâtiments has also set up a working group to accelerate the reconstruction of damaged areas. I can also tell you that the same evening of the fire, the minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, but also the director general, were present on the spot; this demonstrates the importance that BOZAR has to them. As I have just said, there will be direct financial consequences for reparations, and indirect consequences for the difficulty of making parts of the Palais available for the time being. The federal government continues to monitor the situation and needs closely. As regards the question about the contributions of the different entities, I cannot speak on their behalf or make commitments. I can only repeat that the federal government is committed to the Palace of Fine Arts. You also referred to the crowdfunding campaign launched by BOZAR, which is a very nice initiative for everyone who wants to support the institution. The campaign costs are part of BOZAR's annual communication budget for 2021. BOZAR works with Koalect for this purpose. Mrs. Vindevoghel, you asked a question about this crowdfunding. BOZAR tries to raise as much money as possible through crowdfunding. Because it is the first time BOZAR has been involved in fundraising in such a way, it is not known what exact amount will be collected. Every gift is of course valuable. As far as crowdfunding is concerned, I would like to point out that in general, and not only as a result of an accident of this kind, it must be possible to exist. In my opinion, there are people who are happy to be more actively involved in the evolution of an institution like this. It is a choice of the management committee that does not prejudge our willingness to support the Fine Arts or their ability to be compensated by insurance. One is not the consequence of the other. At this point, we do not know the extent to which the government will have to intervene since we do not know the conclusions of the expertise or the extent to the last carat of the damage to know what repairs are necessary. Finally, as far as the revival is concerned, there is a project to digitize Fine Arts to a maximum of ten million which could have its own existence outside the fire. But now we are thinking even more with interest about this project. I hope I've answered your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u9	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. That water damage seems to have significant consequences. It is also typical of water damage that these effects continue to drag on for some time, until their final size is visible. When I hear that the parquet is swollen and the ceilings are severely damaged, I fear that the cost will be enormous. The damage to the organ also promises little good and more damage can come to light, forgive me the expression. I suppose there will still be a debriefing, which will then deal with the causes and consequences of the fire. Is it possible to submit the conclusions of this debriefing to Parliament so that we too can determine the lessons that have been drawn from it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answers, in the current state of knowledge. Of course, the situation will have to be monitored. I would like to point out to you the interest of our committee in our three cultural institutions, and in particular BOZAR. We had organized a visit on 19 February last year to make Members aware of the work that is being done there. Many deputies and collaborators were present. It is therefore with knowledge that we have been informed of this fire. Damage appears to be relatively limited, as fire detection and response have been rapid. The damage to the water, which is inevitable in order to stop the fire, is of course deplored. I would like to express my solidarity with all the staff, whose teams are very involved in their work. In addition to the health crisis, this fire is not nothing. We ask you to remain attentive to the consequences. Today you do not yet have all the elements – the judicial report, the financial consequences, the indirect costs – but I mean that, if necessary, you would agree that the state should intervene. First of all, we have to run the insurances. We will follow this file in order to know the consequences once the restoration work has progressed. We had not had many questions about cultural institutions under the previous legislature, but in my opinion we will receive more questions during the latter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u11	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. It is clear that the board of directors and the government are playing the ball shortly after this incident. That is a good thing. I would like to see the result of that expertise that hopefully can make clear what happened so that we can prevent it to the maximum. What needs to be repaired and how this should be financed, that is what insurance is for. I am pleased that you have said that they are determined to allow planned concerts such as the Queen Elisabeth Contest, but also other activities to take place as far as possible. I think this is an important signal. We will continue to follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answers. Regarding the current test of BOZAR, I have noted several elements of your answer. You have referred to the rapid response of the firefighters – to be welcomed – which has helped to avoid much worse damage. You also mentioned the desire to maintain accessibility to the site and voluntarism in terms of the timing of the resumption of activities, including at the level of concerts. Like my colleague, I think the signal sent by BOZAR and his teams is quite strong. I have taken note of the solidarity shown by the federal government through your presence and the careful follow-up of the case, but also through the prospect of a possible commitment in terms of financial support from BOZAR in parallel with the intervention of insurance and crowdfunding. In short, you are sending a very clear signal of support and solidarity to this institution, which I thank you for.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u13	Thank you for your answers, Madam Secretary. It was indeed naive of me and other colleagues to expect precise amounts of damage from you. That's certainly not a reproach. What I do find a little strange is that you cannot answer my question about the possible support that would be requested from the Regions. You say we should ask the Regions themselves. If this question came from you, you might be able to answer it. This dossier will undoubtedly continue in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u14	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answers. I just didn't get an answer to the problem of the presence of asbestos. Thanks for the rest of the answers, though. We are very happy that in addition to crowdfunding, the government also intends to invest in BOZAR. At BOZAR are very good, fantastic projects. We must ensure that cultural life can continue in our capital.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, I have no indication that there is a problem with asbestos. If that were the case, I will inform you or this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u16	We also support the proposal to discuss further the follow-up of the dossier here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u17	Mr President, Minister, of course there are a number of things that are still unclear, which is normal in such cases. It is also right to praise the firefighters and, by extension, the emergency services in general, who are working every day in difficult situations to provide us with help. A number of issues remain unclear, but I am also pleased that both the Governing Board and the Government are making commitments. After all, the damage that has been done is clearly considerable. All the committee members have said it, it touches us all in our hearts. I'm happy with the commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u18	Madam Minister, you will have understood that Members will remain very attentive to the follow-up to this file on the restoration of BOZAR.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u19	Mr President, Minister, since I submitted my question a while ago, I fear that it is somewhat dated. That's why I'll rephrase them now. My question concerns the mandate of the Director of BOZAR, a mandate in principle has been over for some time, but Mr Dujardin was still ad interim director for a long time. Before that mandate, there were, if I understand correctly, three candidates. Firstly, once again Mr Dujardin, a candidate for a fourth term; secondly, Mr Longchamp; and thirdly, a candidate who has dropped out during the procedure. In the meantime, I have heard from the media that Mr Longchamp was apparently not accepted. Could you explain that more? Mr Dujardin is apparently no longer an ad interim director either. Can you explain that in more detail? Does Mr Dujardin currently perform another function in BOZAR, and can you clarify which function that is exactly? How does the procedure proceed? Is a new vacancy being placed or has that already happened? What requirements should candidates meet?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u20	Minister, there are a lot of questions about BOZAR because your mandate is included in new pages of the institution's history. This is the case for the Director General's question, but also for other issues that we will discuss later. According to reports in various media over the past few days, the BOZAR Board of Directors was to decide on Friday the modalities of the call for applications for the post of Director-General. A number of cultural institutions and theatres are renewing their leadership through innovative selection processes, enhancing equality of opportunity, transparency and openness to the outside world. In addition, a letter was sent to you by BOZAR staff concerning this desire to modernise the selection process for management. Minister, what is the future for the former Director General within the institution? Who ensures the policy of cultural programming during this interlude? What is the profile for the next Director General? How will the recruitment process be organised? What is the timing of the designation of the future Director General?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u21	Mr President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I forwarded my questions yesterday morning. Yesterday afternoon I received an answer from you to my written question. So you have already answered a lot, thank you for that. Your answers were very convincing. The future of BOZAR is extremely important for the future of the Belgian, Flemish and Walloon international atmosphere, thanks to culture. So I understand very well that many colleagues are concerned about what will happen to our main cultural temple. As Foreign Minister, you will be the first to be able to use that beautiful house, as all your predecessors have done with conviction. So we can only welcome your decision to continue to involve Paul Dujardin specifically in international relations. Could you explain his new assignment a little more? Will Dujardin have his office in BOZAR? Will he be able to count on the cooperation of his former colleagues? Is his assignment clearly aligned and project-oriented? What is the deadline for his assignment? Personally, I do not understand what is in the press, namely that within the Council of Ministers there would be a complete blocking of the designation of a new CEO. Is that right? How did you convince your colleagues of your vision? Your current strategy, both for the appointment of a CEO and for the composition of the board of directors, has certainly convinced me positively. You offer BOZAR every chance for a nice continuation of an artistic miracle, which continued to grow over the last two decades. Thanks for that, already. It's urgent, isn't it? Is it true that a new CEO is already being proposed to the Council of Ministers at the beginning of March? What exactly is the role of the external selection agency, on the one hand, and the Council of Ministers, on the other? Will the final decision be taken by the new board of directors to be set up? Can you explain how the boards of BOZAR, the National Orchestra and the Mint will be composed? I read the handsome procedure with a lot of attention. So you'll certainly get good candidates. Who ultimately decides on the composition of each board, taking into account the Culture Pact? Finally, does the current malaise have financial consequences for BOZAR and our Palace of Fine Arts or are they also being taken in, so that the many and very good employees of BOZAR can take on the future as creatively as in the past?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u22	Mr President, Minister, the recruitment procedure for a new director has been dragging on for a year and a half and has now ended in a total blockage. After three motions of censure on staff, the Director of BOZAR, Mr Dujardin, has been dismissed. The trade unions too have long demanded that Mr Dujardin's mandate should not be extended. However, a new Management Board must first be appointed. The most recent appointment to the Governing Board dates from 2008. Two drivers who died in the meantime were not replaced. Mr Davignon has also recently stopped and there are more people of old age. You want to get rid of the political appointments at both BOZAR, De Munt and the National Orchestra of Belgium by using the 1973 Cultural Pact. The candidate directors will then also have to be approved by the nuclear cabinet and the Council of Ministers. In the meantime, you launched the reelection of the members of the boards of the three federal institutions BOZAR, De Munt and the National Orchestra of Belgium. In the meantime, calls from cultural workers have already been made to enable inclusion and diversity in these Boards. Madam Secretary, can you guarantee the diversity in the future boards of the three federal institutions BOZAR, De Munt and the National Orchestra? Which directives will have to be followed? Why will the members of the Management Board still have to submit their applications to the Nuclear Cabinet and the Council of Ministers? When will the renewed boards be active and when will there be a new director for BOZAR? How often does BOZAR's board of directors meet? What fees do they get for that? What are the wages and benefits of BOZAR's Director? Will the artistic development in BOZAR be given and maintained sufficient space?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. There are questions about the appointment of the Director and the Management Board. I know there will be questions about the board of directors. I will first answer the questions about the appointment of a new director. Then I'll answer the questions about the board of directors. If you agree with this way of working, I'll start with a nod to Mr. Parent. Indeed, I almost interrupted you for a personal fact, since you had started with these words: "Whether you like it or not, your name will be inscribed in the pages of BOZAR." I don't know how I should take it, but it will probably be positive. That's why I was laughing! You seemed a little surprised at my reaction. I am convinced of your benevolence to me. So there's no problem between us. Anyway, I'll tell you what made me smile. As far as the procedure for the appointment of the Director-General is concerned, I would also like to make a general comment. A lot of things have been said in the press. You have noticed that I myself have never gone to the press, not on the record, nor off the record, to make statements about the Director-General, nor about the Management Board. I think it is very important to have everything properly framed in all serenity. We must always be aware that there is a person behind every title. The people behind the titles make the difference. If the names of these people appear in the press, it's not funny. As politicians, we're used to it. It's a little sad, but that's how it is. We're getting used to it. But, in my view, we must not have the somewhat too frequent reflex of appointing to appoint, before the proceedings are over. This is a general remark that I wanted to make. For the procedure itself, the Management Board has established that the appointment procedures should be restarted, taking into account the length of the previous procedure and the recent fire. The Council considered that Mr Dujardin could be relieved of his mandate as Director-General, which he had been acting on an interim basis since 1 January 2020. It is premature at this stage to give an exact timing. I asked the board to confirm that the job profile established in 2018 is still the profile to be published. That's confirmed. The call for candidates to be published in the Belgian Official Journal shall state all the conditions to be met and the job profile. The law specifies little, except that the Director-General must be chosen on the basis of his cultural and/or administrative competence. He shall be responsible for day-to-day management and shall be assisted by a Management Committee which shall, inter alia, have the task of initiating cultural programming. The law also provides for a division of roles with the other mandate holder, the financial director. I wanted the applications to be analysed by the Board of Directors in a thorough and professional manner. This means that this includes the need to be surrounded by outsiders, a specialized company for which the selection procedure has not yet begun. I hope that the board of directors will be able to forward to the government a proposal as a candidate that it considers fit to run the Palais des Beaux-Arts, that it will justify its decision with a number of elements and that it will also make a ranking of these candidates. It is therefore a serious procedure, which may take a few weeks or months. The Council of Ministers should then approve the dossier. It is important that the Palace of Fine Arts, which is at a turning point in its existence, finds a director-general who can ensure that it retains its dynamism and that in the coming years it can take advantage of the achievements of a years of transformation and the opportunities and challenges that arise. Rest assured, artistic development will continue to occupy an important place within the institution. The management of the institution is indeed assured. This has already been and will always be the case. The Management Board entrusted that task to the Management Committee. At the request of the Council, Mr Wastiaux took over the presidency ad interim. With regard to the future of Mr Paul Dujardin, the Management Board wished to entrust him with the task of concluding an agreement with the European Commission to strengthen the European cultural dimension of the Palais. In addition, he will take care of the preparations for the 100th anniversary of the Palais des Beaux-Arts, which will take place in March 2022. I think I've been around. There is still the issue of the board of directors that will be discussed later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u24	For this part, Mr. Parent tabled a question, but on an individual basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u25	Mr President, I will be happy to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u26	Since there is no objection, we can function in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u27	Madam Secretary, I'm giving a very brief reply. I understand that we are not quite there yet and that the procedure is still in progress. I would like to hear that you also want to look for someone who can bring about the necessary dynamics in the institution. Constant renewal is something that can certainly be an asset, but it must also be someone who can motivate a team to give the best of themselves. That's what we need to look for. We will follow up the dossier here in Parliament. We will come back to it if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u28	Madam Minister, thank you. Don't worry, I'm always benevolent. I kept my benevolence for the line. Indeed, whether we like it or not, a new page was to be written; but since the beginning of this legislature, I see that you have taken the bull by the horns. I wanted to complete my remarks in the reply, rest assured. Thank you for all your clarifications regarding the state of the situation. I believe, in relation to the past, that this was indeed the right decision to restart the appeal. You focused on the word serenity. I think that the context has been sufficiently described so that the need for this serenity can be stressed. The serenity within BOZAR is very important. As far as the procedure is concerned, I hear your explanations. The call is made anyway. I am also pleased with the association with the GC and the new criteria that you have requested in relation to the ranking of applications. Beyond what has already been described and explained in the appeal, I would like to stress two values that I believe are essential for leading the institution: the qualities of human management and also the need for good collegiality in decision-making. I think that the context has sufficiently raised these different difficulties, but also opportunities for the future. I would also ask you to take care of this in the course of this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u29	Madam Secretary, thank you very much. As expected, you will also show in this dossier your commitment and the right direction to recruit the person with the right competences to put BOZAR on the map permanently. I would like to thank you in advance for your commitment to this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u30	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, BOZAR has become one of the most important European cultural temples, thanks to the management who has worked there for the past twenty years and thanks to the board of directors led by its chairman. I am very pleased that you want to ensure continuity and at the same time you are aware of what has happened in the past to positive things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u31	Thank you, Madam Secretary. There are still a few things that I have not really received an answer to, for example, about the remuneration of the board members. Also how often the council will meet. It is very important for us to have a say. The fact that there was a lot of dissatisfaction among the staff says a lot about the problems. It is very important that attention should be paid to this. It still remains a political appointment. It's still on the Council of Ministers. We think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u32	Mr President, Madam Minister, despite a substantial amount of money, BOZAR has been hard hit by the crisis of the Covid-19. We've already had an opportunity to talk about this in this committee. So far, however, this financial situation has had little impact on staff. However, it is up to us that the cutlet has fallen for several employees of the institution and this, in a general context, to say the least, of the nomination procedure. That was the subject of the previous debate. Minister, do you confirm the recent redundancies in BOZAR staff? Are other measures envisaged? How many people are affected by these measures? What are their profiles? What are the artistic disciplines affected by these decisions? Are these dismissals purely economic or are they also decisions that affect the cultural orientation choices of the institution? Which body of the institution has taken the decision on these dismissals? Have any alternatives been studied (technical unemployment, collective reduction of working time, new government demands) to avoid dry layoffs?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u33	Mr President, Mr Parent, indeed, there have been redundancies in BOZAR. The institution justifies them as part of a general plan to restore the financial, operational and artistic balance for the period 2021-2023. Human resource costs account for 50% of BOZAR's turnover. In fiscal year 2021 and the savings deemed necessary by the institution to restore financial balance, measures have been taken to reduce these costs. Measures taken in the area of human resources also include the non-extension of fixed-term contracts, the cancellation of freelance contracts, a reduction in short-term contracts, the reorganization of work, internal recruitment, the voluntary reduction to 50% of the thirteenth month for members of the Management Committee in 2021 or the digitization of procedures and tasks. You see, it's a general framework. It was not just redundancies without looking at all the arrangements that needed to be made. Twelve persons are covered by this measure, four of whom have a fixed-term contract which has not been renewed. These are diverse profiles, including management, programming, assistant and production manager positions. The institution guarantees that these redundancies are purely economic in nature given the budgetary challenge for the coming years and the restrictions following the covid-19. They do not affect the institution's cultural orientation choices. According to the information available to me, the decision was taken by the Management Committee, whose work it is, in prior consultation with the Chairman of the Joint Committee and the Chairman of the Administrative Board, Mr Davignon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u34	Madam Minister, thank you for your various points of answer. You have explained the general framework. It seems to me that communication about the latter would benefit from being better done in-house, by better informing staff. Decision-making is not always understood. And let me note that the explanations given do not correspond to those you yourself provided. This is a lesson that can be learned. For the rest, I understand that this plan is part of a desire to balance measures. However, I can only regret that there is a need for a radical separation of staff, while other measures may have allowed this plan to be softened. I know, of course, that you are not responsible for this situation, but I can only deplore it, thinking of all the people who have committed themselves, sometimes for many years, to this institution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u35	Minister, this is the last question, but not the least. She's already been picked up by my colleague. This Monday, February 1st was published at the Moniteurbelge a call for applications for the boards of directors of the Fine Arts, the National Orchestra and the Royal Mint Theatre. On this occasion, you expressed – and we welcome – your willingness to open the doors of CAs to the academic world, to civil society, focusing on expertise and experience in culture and management. This also responds to a wish of the staff members who sent you the letter referred to above. What are the criteria determining the selection of candidates and the steps and timing of the process? Will special attention be paid to the gender dimension in order to achieve parity within the institutions? We know that this societal fight is important and that you are attentive to it. As far as the cultural world is concerned, is there an exception procedure with the ONEM to allow persons working in the cultural sector or under the status of social assignee to sit in a CA without any administrative or financial concern, as has been the case in other institutions and under other entities?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u36	Thank you for the questions. The procedure started with a call for candidates, which appeared in the Belgian Official Journal on 1 February 2021. The selection criteria are mainly based on the conditions laid down in the Law of 7 May 1999 establishing the Palace of Fine Arts, the Law of 22 April 1958 establishing the National Orchestra of Belgium and the Law of 19 April 1963 establishing the Royal Mint Museum. The Culture Pact is, of course, also being applied. The members of the Management Board shall be appointed on the basis of their capacity as a specialist in the field of culture or use management. The frequency of meetings varies. Regarding the fees, the mandates of the directors of the Palace of Fine Arts and the National Orchestra of Belgium are exercised free of charge. The fees of the directors of the Koninklijke Muntschouwburg are laid down by royal decree. I do not have the exact figure, but, as far as I know, it is not with this that we are getting richer. This call closes on February 15. A first selection will be made by the Prime Minister's Chancellery and I will then submit the dossier to the Council of Ministers for approval. It is therefore the Council of Ministers which takes the final decision on the matter. As far as the timing issue is concerned, I cannot give a more precise time frame at this time, but, as you know, I said in my policy note that the renewal of the boards of directors is one of my priorities, given that the mandates have come to an end. Yes, attention will be given to gender and diversity in general. I would also like to add a more general point in the consideration of these mandates. Articles have been published in the press and considerations have been made. I think, as in everything, you have to keep the church in the middle of the village. The first thing to do when we renew a board of directors is to get in order with regard to the statutes. The persons and directors who work there must be able to work with regard to the statutes in full belonging to them. Why? I say that because I regret a little bit that we have circulated a reasoning that, when we renew boards of directors whose mandates have come to an end, it is to pass a blow of broom. Certainly not! I am in government and therefore represent the continuity of the state. I think we need to be able to sweep in front of his door. I therefore also accept what has been done previously by successive governments. I have no problem with that. I have a great deal of consideration and gratitude for those who, over all these years, have taken time and have benefited from their experience and their network of institutions that are dear to our hearts. As I told you in my answer, there's no money at the key. There are no fortunes at the key but the will to participate in the common interest. I want to say this because, again, I am sad that irreverent articles have been published, on and off which do not correspond to our vision - and I do not even say "to my vision" because I think it is shared - of what should be the renewal of the boards of directors for which we will be responsible. When I say that, what does that mean? Diversity is people who have experience, people who may have less experience, people who have networks, but in any case, people who care about these institutions. There are people who have done so far. Some will probably want to continue. There is no reason, because the boards of directors are being renewed, to put all of this aside as if it had not existed. I would like to publicly thank those who have been involved in our institutions for all these years. With regard to your last more specific question, Mr Parent, about an exception procedure for social beneficiaries, for example, it is not provided for in the law. Specific rules, for example on unemployment, remain applicable. For the rest, for compatibility, there are things which, in my opinion, must also be seen with the Minister for Employment. But as far as the conditions for applying are concerned, this does not come under the conditions for applying or under the conditions of exception. Everyone can, of course, apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic374x.u37	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers, part of which was addressed to my colleague even though I was the only one to debate. It was necessary for you to initiate this renewal of the Boards of Directors, which were established in 2008. This operation also represents opportunities to stick more closely to societal challenges, including the gender issue, but also to the challenges facing the cultural world. In fact, my last question was about the place artists can take in decision-making places. It is still a brake today, which is linked to the legislation. Everyone is free to apply, but I think that, in order to involve artists more actively in decision-making in the institutions that concern them, it will be necessary to move this debate forward in other committees in order to relieve them of the administrative and financial difficulties they are experiencing today and which do not allow them to take full place in these decision-making places.
