ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u1	Madam President, Madam Minister, as you know, the Secretary General of La Francophonie, Louise Mushikiwabo, has made gender equality and women's empowerment one of her priorities during her tenure at the head of the Organisation internationale de la francophonie and its various operators. This priority was clearly a necessity. It was indeed necessary because the figures show that every new crisis actually plunges millions of working women in French-speaking countries into precariousness. The populations most affected by crises are primarily girls and women in vulnerable situations. With the covid-19 pandemic, the risk of their situation getting worse is significant. Yet, they are a major lever for crisis mitigation, through their continued commitment to their families and their contribution to their basic needs. In this context, Mrs Mushikiwabo has just launched a large solidarity fund for women: the "La Francophonie avec Elles" fund. This fund is intended to provide women with access to economic development, education, health, citizenship and training. It must finance field actions carried out by recognised actors in the French-speaking area, particularly in Africa, the Caribbean and Lebanon. Abounded by the OIF budget, this fund also allows the participation of every French-speaking citizen who wants to commit: a donation platform was put online on this occasion. Prime Minister, has Belgium contributed to the process of drawing up this fund? Are you planning a promotional campaign of this fund at our level? How many people, organizations and/or donors have already made a donation? What does the fund represent to date? And finally, how were the 59 winners of the fund's first call for projects selected on November 20th? Could you tell us more about the projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u2	I am aware of the existence of this solidarity fund. The 29 projects funded by the first edition of "La Francophonie avec Elles" are implemented in nine of the 14 partner countries of Belgian Development Cooperation: Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Guinea, Mali, Morocco, Rwanda and Senegal. For the financing of this first edition, "La Francophonie avec Elles" was able to benefit from an envelope of three million euros, of which two million came from the International Organization of la Francophonie (OIF), 500,000 euros from the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and 500,000 from France. With regard to the selection criteria of the "La Francophonie avec Elles" Fund, the 59 projects had to be consistent with the strategic orientations of the OIF, in line with geographical priorities, not containing religious or political propaganda, having defined clear objectives and specific actions, and finally having requested a contribution of 15 000 to 80 000 euros for a duration of implementation of less than one year. With regard to our future participation in the OIF, my administration is examining, inter alia, whether it would not duplicate other projects that we are already funding, whether it has good governance experience and whether Belgian participation in the OIF met the criteria for official development assistance set by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Indeed, the economic empowerment of women and girls, women's leadership, the fight against gender-based violence and health are all topics covered by this project, for which Belgium has already undertaken many actions in recent years. For example, in 2020, Belgian Development Cooperation launched a call for projects on the effects of covid-19 on people. The purpose of the appeal was also to support front-line actors, the fight against gender-based violence, the strengthening of the long-term resilience of populations and the participation of women and girls at all levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u3	Madam Minister, I note that you confirm your commitment to women and in particular to the competences of Development Cooperation. You are absolutely right because 743 million women were prevented from going to school because of the pandemic. Two thirds of the workforce in the global health system are women on the front lines, but they are not always protected. 58% of women work in the informal economy. These are jobs that are quickly threatened by illness or confinement. We know that there are now nearly 140 million women in French-speaking countries. They will reach nearly 350 million by 2050. For us, this is an essential fight that must be led by each of the Member States and governments in a common vision, as we did at the Yerevan Summit in 2018. Minister, thank you for your response that you were open to collaboration with the OIF, provided that this organization meets the standards of good global governance and that its programs do not duplicate what Development Cooperation is doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u4	Madam President, Madam Minister, the rivalries and conflicts between farmers and farmers in some African countries are not a new phenomenon. However, these tensions tend to grow in recent years, due to climate change on the one hand, and the decline in land ownership on the other. Most of these conflicts occur in already unstable areas such as northern and central Nigeria, northern Mali and forest Guinea. There is a risk that these tensions will lead to instability and threaten peace in the regions concerned. On the spot, some think tanks are working on this issue and are looking for mediation strategies. Some countries, such as Senegal, have set up a land use and land-use plan to facilitate peaceful coexistence between herders and farmers. Madam Minister, could you take stock of this situation in general and, in particular, in our partner countries? Have any measures been taken in recent years or will they be taken in an attempt to ease the situation? In concrete terms, what tools do Belgium and the international community have?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u5	Madam President, Mr De Maegd, the problem of the conflict between herders and farmers has varying consequences and implications depending on the areas of intervention of Development Cooperation in the various partner countries. The importance of the phenomenon is high, with about 50 million pastoral breeders in sub-Saharan Africa. This problem is taken into account in our partner countries in order to adapt to different regional contexts. On the basis of this geographical experience, Belgium can develop added value in the livestock and agricultural sectors. Belgium attaches great importance to the livestock and agriculture sector in the partner countries of the Central Sahel: Niger, Mali and Burkina Faso. The pressure on unequal access to natural resources is indeed one of the key factors underlying conflicts. Climate change and population growth are in addition to this. The work of Enabel and NGOs such as Veterinarians Without Borders Belgium focuses among other things on the livestock sector. For example, the Enabel programme in Niger has resulted in a 6% reduction in conflicts between farmers and herders in the intervention areas. At the southern African level, particularly in Tanzania, land conflict is a very sensitive issue. This has not only led to violent clashes between farmers, farmers, the police and local businesses, but also often has a role to play in making entire communities victims of conflict. Several Belgian partners are currently active in agriculture and forestry. Trias implemented a land-use planning project in the northern district of Monduli. Project Concern International, the Belgian investment platform for the D4D project has been able to develop the AfriScout mobile app thanks, in part, to the financial support of Wehubit. At the international community level, several organizations and programmes are working on the subject. Our core funding contribution to FAO and CGIAR is also a lever to ease the situation. Belgian development cooperation uses different approaches adapted to the context, such as securing transhumance corridors for the migration and movement of livestock, and grazing areas for nomadic livestock farmers, providing semi-intensive systems for livestock farming or using local conflict prevention and treatment mechanisms. As you know, agriculture is one of the priority sectors in my policy. The conflicts between farmers and farmers will certainly remain a focus in the initiatives that I will develop.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u6	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that these conflicts between herders and farmers lead to sometimes extremely violent confrontations. The situation varies according to the locations in sub-Saharan Africa, where there are 50 million breeders. I am pleased that Belgium is taking this issue into account, particularly in Niger, Mali and Burkina Faso. I was referring to climate change, but it is true that population growth is a double pressure. Enabel and the NGOs you mentioned focus on breeding, and this leads to a reduction in conflicts. It's so much better even if 6%, it's not yet enough in my view. This effort should therefore be continued. Finally, from an international point of view, cenacles exist to contribute to the increase in semi-intense rearing and to the development of conflict management mechanisms. Minister, I encourage you to ensure that your administration, Enabel and the NGOs continue in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u7	Minister, in June 2014, the Malabo Summit for an African Agriculture Transformation Agenda resulted in seven major commitments. One of these was the allocation of 10 per cent of the national budget of African Union member countries to agriculture. At the last African Union summit, held in 2020, an assessment was drawn up. The least we can say is that the situation is complicated since, of the 49 Member States, only four countries - Rwanda, Morocco, Mali and Ghana - are on track to meet Malabo's commitments by 2025. Minister, how does Belgium stand against these commitments? Does it support them and, if so, through what tools? What about the United Nations? Finally, can you take stock of this as far as our partner countries are concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u8	Mr De Maegd, thank you for your questions. As you know, the Malabo Declaration was adopted in June 2014 by the African Union. African countries are committed to the growth and accelerated transformation of agriculture for shared prosperity and better living conditions. The targets set were ambitious and included the eradication of hunger by 2025. Agriculture is a priority area of my policy. We support the sustainable development goals advocated by the United Nations, which we want to achieve by 2030. The achievement of these objectives requires, among other things, increased investment in the agricultural sector. That is why I have assigned Belgian Development Cooperation the ambitious target of 15% of its budget for agriculture and food security. We're 11 per cent today. This will be achieved through our bilateral cooperation and through new collaborative portfolios that we want to launch. When we conclude a cooperation agreement with a partner country, we also discuss the contribution of the partner country itself. In this discussion, we will stress the importance of agriculture to the population and the need to invest in agriculture by the countries themselves. I note, at the same time as you, that last year's review shows that, among the four countries on track, there are three of our partner countries: Mali, Morocco and Rwanda. I also note that, with the exception of Mozambique, which has stagnated, our other partner countries have made significant progress. This shows that our partner countries have taken their commitments seriously. In addition, we are also addressing food security and agriculture through our multilateral cooperation through the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) of the World Food Programme (WFP) and the agricultural research network. FAO often works with partner countries to establish an enabling environment for agriculture and to strengthen institutional capacity. For example, FAO trained African Union staff to follow up on the Malabo Declaration during the Biennial Review.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u9	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The Malabo Declaration is obviously extremely important with regard to the transformation of agriculture. As you said, this project is ambitious but fundamental for people if we are to eradicate hunger by 2025 by 2030. You have explained that it is planned to increase the investment of our development cooperation in the agricultural sector by 15%. We are currently 11 per cent. So there is still a long way to go, but the intention is there and it is commendable. You also said that 49 countries had acceded to the Malabo agreements but only four of them were in the nails. This is also true of three of Belgium's partner countries - Rwanda, Morocco and Mali - which is good news. The other countries are making progress, as you mentioned. Unfortunately, Mozambique is in retreat, but I believe that this effort must always and more be supported, because eradicating hunger must be a fundamental objective of our development cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u10	Madam President, Madam Minister, for the time being, both in Belgium and in Europe, we have to deal with the private pharmaceutical companies that produce the various vaccines. This shows enough that the decision taken by Europe a few years ago to attribute manufacturing to the private sector was a bad decision, which may have to be reconsidered and, in a way, re-appropriated to avoid such problems in the event of a pandemic. But that's not my question. The reflection is more global. It is this: today, some rich countries, where vaccination companies are based, have ordered multiple doses of vaccine, sometimes to vaccinate more than their own population; whereas in the end, there are a lot of poor countries that are worrying because they may not have access to this vaccination. Several appeals were made by the international community, first by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Guterres. In a parliamentary question, I asked the Prime Minister before a European summit, to ensure that Belgium fully supports the principle that this vaccine should be a universal public good, by allowing all populations, wherever they are and whatever their status, access to this vaccination. Today, there is a form of relaxation that is taking place. We think again of ourselves, by ripping ourselves on ourselves. I think it's important to give signals. Minister, my question is simple. I know that you have already identified a series of means for this vaccination to the outside world and the poorest countries. What attitudes are we going to adopt at the next international arenas, both at European and international level? Finally, the pressure must be maintained. To this end, I will table a motion for a resolution, which I will invite colleagues to sign as well. This is a debate that goes beyond the majority divide and opposition. It is about international solidarity. With this resolution, Parliament will give an external signal that Belgium is fully committed to ensuring that these vaccines are accessible to all, wherever we are in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u11	Madam Secretary, "Nobody is safe until everyone is safe": the covid vaccine must be available and affordable in every corner of the world, said the President of the European Commission, Ursula Von der Leyen. Last week, the Director-General of the WHO warned about the unequal distribution of vaccines around the world. He stated that the price will be paid with lives and incomes in the poorest countries. The COVAX initiative, which Belgium together with 180 other countries contributed to and for which you also released 4 million euros, was designed to ensure fast access to vaccines and a better negotiating position towards producers. The problem is that the rich countries started ordering their own vaccines at the same time. The Director-General of the WHO called on all countries to comply with the COVAX initiative and to involve the surplus vaccines purchased in COVAX. The pandemic has now entered a new phase and the various variants that are now circulating in our country must make us very aware of the fact that the virus is constantly mutating. It will also continue to do so in countries that may have to wait another year or more before they can vaccinate people for the first time. We must, of course, avoid this disaster scenario at all times. So it is not just a question of solidarity, but also of common sense to stop the spread and mutation as quickly as possible throughout the world. The European Council video conference on 21 January confirmed Europe's international solidarity. It was stated that vaccines should be seen as a global public good. I have a number of questions on this, Madam Secretary. Was the European Council also taking a decision on what will happen in practice with vaccines bought too much by Europe? Will our country take initiatives to use the know-how on vaccine development and production also in low-income countries so that they can also act more autonomously in the longer term? Do you know where, when and to which groups the first vaccines will be administered from the COVAX initiative? Finally, is Belgium in favour of a temporary suspension of intellectual property rights for COVID-19-related medical equipment and vaccines and, if so, do we also advocate this at European and international level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u12	Mrs Van Hoof is apologized and Mrs Depoorter is not online or present in the Chamber, so I give you the floor for your answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions, which are not insignificant at this time when we are talking about solidarity. There is indeed a worrying imbalance in access to the vaccine in the world. The vaccine must be available for all countries. First of all, it is a moral and humane duty to leave no one behind. On the other hand, unfair access to vaccination will only delay the exit of this pandemic for everyone. In concrete terms, Belgium supports the VOCAX initiative. It contributes indirectly, via the European Commission, to the VOCAX initiative. The European Commission has mobilised more than €850 million to allow access to covid-19 vaccine by low- and middle-income countries. Besides this, Belgium, like other countries, also contributed directly to the VOCAX initiative for an amount of EUR 4 million in 2021. In connection with this financial contribution, Belgium has become a member of the Combustion Group of the VOCAX mechanism. This group is used to monitor and advise the VOCAX secretariat. Belgium, represented by its Administration, participates bimonthly. As regards the roll-out of the vaccination campaign in developing countries, and more specifically through COVAX, UNICEF has drawn up an overview of this. The purpose of this Vaccine Market Dashboard is to provide all specific information on the global evolution of the vaccine issue. The dashboard therefore also provides an overview of the agreements concluded by COVAX with pharmaceutical companies. At present, this initiative has insured 800 million doses from pharmaceutical companies and suppliers. There are currently 49 vaccines under development. It is planned that the distribution of vaccines will start in February 2021. 125 million doses will be available from March onwards. According to the information we were allowed to receive, 50 countries will receive a first batch of vaccines at that time. The geographical redistribution of vaccines is a complex exercise carried out with the help of the World Health Organisation. It follows objective criteria to ensure that the distribution is as pragmatic and as fair as possible. For 2021, COVAX was able to obtain the financial contributions envisaged. These are good for a purchase of 2 billion doses. The biggest problem here, like everywhere else in the world, remains the availability of vaccines. There is simply not enough production at the moment. It should be borne in mind that COVAX provides for the coverage of 20% of the vaccination needs of the participating countries. This should make it possible to vaccinate the nursing staff and vulnerable groups, but of course that is far from sufficient. If we look at the difficulties currently faced by pharmaceutical companies in fulfilling their commitments to the existing contracts, it can be predicted that the vaccinations of the world population will indeed be delayed. It will then take longer than 2021 or 2022 before we reach everyone. This leads me to talk about the sharing of surplus vaccines. Belgium is in favour of the donation of vaccines within the framework of international solidarity and we are part of the European approach. The European Commission has taken a positive decision. It wants to set up a mechanism for sharing vaccines with partner countries as part of the Team Europe approach. It looks at how this distribution can be organised via COVAX. The main mechanism remains the insurance of access to vaccines for 92 low or middle income participating countries. The mechanism ensures a fair distribution and should prevent countries from randomly overflying vaccines. The distribution of vaccines outside the European Union remains a logistical and legal challenge. Countries must draw up a national vaccination plan if they want to receive these vaccines. Belgian Development Cooperation supports access to covid vaccine as a global public good. By definition, a vaccine is a public good because it allows, beyond personal protection, to protect the general public. In addition, vaccine research and development are also heavily supported by public money. It is therefore quite normal to consider it as such. At the 2020 World Health Assembly, the resolution on covid-19 already recognized the role of large-scale vaccination against covid-19 as a global public good. Belgium is part of the group of countries that signed the call for solidarity a few months ago: "Make the response to COVID-19 a public common good." This call calls for fair access to medical technologies throughout the world in the fight against COOVID-19. This requires sharing knowledge, intellectual property and data. Today, a small number of pharmaceutical companies and factories have to produce a huge number of doses to supply the entire planet with vaccines. That's a challenge I've never seen before. However, we must be honest, the current pharmaceutical ecosystem is not equipped to respond to the pandemic and has reached its limits. Competition will not solve the problem today, quite the contrary. Today, we need to work together on research and public health systems. If we do not dare to look critically at our systems today, when will we do so? COVID-19 is a global health crisis, especially an unprecedented crisis. It is time to give more countries the opportunity to develop and produce locally. We must combat the imbalance that exists today. Greater flexibility in the TRIPS agreement on the protection of intellectual property rights could allow some countries to develop and produce medicines and vaccines locally. This could be done in countries where this capacity exists and where sufficient quality control is guaranteed. India and South Africa proposed a temporary lifting of certain provisions of the TRIPS Agreement a few months ago. At the moment, this proposal is still being discussed within the World Trade Organisation. The European Union, which represents us in the World Trade Organisation, does not support the idea of a temporary lifting, but, at the request of Belgium, it has launched an intense dialogue with the supporters of the waver. It seeks, in consultation with these countries, to find out how patent rights would prevent access to vaccines or medicines. The European Commission shall coordinate with the Member States before and after each Council meeting. Belgium, also on the basis of the coordination organised in the DGE around this dossier, insists on the need for the EU to take seriously the concerns on the basis of the proposal of India and South Africa, namely access to vaccines for all. As Minister for Development Cooperation, I will continue to advocate at European level a more flexible approach by the European Union, especially for developing countries. Recently, I also raised this issue at a meeting with Jutta Urpilainen, the EU Commissioner for International Partnerships. I would like to stress that the time has come to avoid ideological debates. We must adopt a pragmatic attitude. More flexibility in intellectual property will not immediately give us additional vaccines in the coming days, but in the longer term. We're all in this together, all over the world. Without vaccination that is widespread enough, we simply remain vulnerable. We won't be safe until everyone's safe, like I said. COVID-19 is an unprecedented health crisis, but specialists predict that such pandemics will occur more frequently. For this reason, it is important to invest in epidemic prevention and response by building capacity for epidemiological surveillance, vaccines, drug development and screening. We are exploring how we can help our partner countries to become more resilient and autonomous in the future in the field of health crisis management. This can be done by investing in crisis management structures, but also in production capacity for vaccines and essential medicines. We must understand that a global effort is needed to achieve long-term results. Belgium can play a leading role in this issue. We have signed a call for solidarity for the sharing of knowledge, intellectual property and data in the context of the fight against the COOVID-19 virus. That call must now be put into practice. Belgium has a rich expertise for this. We have our universities, the Tropical Institute in Antwerp and the technological expertise of the pharmaceutical sector. The Belgian contribution to the development of the health sector in partner countries remains more relevant than ever. That still makes the most sense. The focus is on strengthening health systems, improving epidemiological surveillance, enabling access to high-quality public services and in particular universal access to health care for all as a general good. Vaccination is an important part of preventive health care. Finally, I would like to stress once again that Belgian development cooperation, through the diplomatic representation of our country and the Belgian development agency Enabel, is following closely the vaccination plans of our partners. My administration launched a call at the end of 2020 on the situation in our partner countries regarding the development of national vaccination plans. The latter is required by COVAX AMC as a condition for receiving vaccines. On this basis, an analysis of the needs of the partner countries will be carried out and we can see how best to assist them. In this context, I would like to inform you that this month, for the Palestinian territories, we are aiming for a start on vaccination via COVAX. Recently, I had another conversation with the ambassador about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and, above all, for your analysis and pragmatic approach. I do believe that the Ministry of Development Cooperation will one day have an important role to play, because the virus knows no borders. Despite what could be feared at first, namely individual action by each European State, the virus blew up borders. Now, this virus would have to blow up Europe's borders in order to exercise real solidarity, not only with the countries neighbouring Europe but also with other countries - in Latin America or Africa, for example - also affected by coronavirus. It goes without saying that today the mobilization of means and energies is necessary. Thus, China has made Morocco its distribution hub for the entire African continent. Similarly, Algerians are beginning to distribute the Russian vaccine on their territory. It is therefore necessary to continue the dialogue between diplomacy at European level, but above all to ensure that Europe is well placed as a rich continent in the global response to this problem through the real exercise of solidarity. The resolution that we intend to table at Parliament's level is intended to help and fully support the action of the government, but also yours, in order to defend this Belgian position and the position that Parliament could support in international forums.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u15	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very comprehensive reply. Our party's position on this matter is very clear. Vaccines are public property. We believe that the corona crisis should lead to a paradigm shift in this area. That debate is already on the highest political agenda, but it must also continue within the framework of the WTO and the European Union. Belgium must also play a leading role in this respect, given our expertise, but it must also play a leading political role. The corona crisis must not only trigger a paradigmashif in how we feel about vaccines, but also in how we feel about health care in general. Health care is not a cost, it's an investment. If this crisis has taught us one thing, it should be. Today, indeed, we still have to work on rapid vaccination around the world. Then it is indeed appropriate to continue to do so through solidarity mechanisms, such as COVAX, because this ensures fair and equal access to vaccines for every country in the world and for international solidarity, which we really need. It is clear that developing countries will need financial support to address the logistical challenges posed by vaccinations, so I am pleased to hear that Belgian Development Cooperation will also be working on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u16	Madam President, Mrs de Laveleye, as you rightly point out, the collapse of the Kasai Bridge, which allowed Kinshasa to join the central and eastern provinces of the DRC, is an economic and social disaster for this region. Unfortunately, this collapse is only one example of the disastrous situation of road infrastructure in the DRC. Various donors have tried and are still trying to work towards the realization of a communication axis in the country. Unfortunately, they often face the same problem: the lack of maintenance of rehabilitated road infrastructure despite the commitments made by local authorities. It is for this reason that the previous Belgian government decided to suspend the rural settlement programmes that our government cooperation was carrying out in the interior of the country. As you know, Belgian government cooperation is working in the DRC as part of a multi-year programme with the Congolese authorities that defines priority sectors, intervention areas and the budget for interventions. The rehabilitation of roads is therefore no longer part of it. There is very little room for action outside this regulatory framework. That is why, unfortunately, we cannot intervene in support of local authorities as soon as such an event occurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u17	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. As ecologists, we support the predictability dimension of the programmes and the need to work on them by negotiating with local authorities. It is therefore perfectly relevant and logical. At the same time, we have been asked by several civil society actors as well as by economic actors - beyond the means of development cooperation - what role your local teams could play in facilitating dialogue between economic actors, local authorities and civil society, so as to facilitate on-the-spot cooperative work without falling outside the framework of the multi-annual programmes established between Belgium and the Congo. I am convinced that this line must be maintained. I consider it an interesting avenue for diplomacy and the actors of Belgian Cooperation in the Congo to facilitate dialogue between local actors. I know they exist and are ready to be heard. Therefore, I can only encourage you to have them dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u18	Thank you, Mrs Samyn, for your question. The Oxfam report rightly points out that poverty rates will increase as a result of COOVID-19. The social and economic impact of the pandemic is therefore a common thread in my policy. My administration has produced two strategic notes on how we will respond to the COOVID-19 crisis in health and socio-economic terms. As far as the socio-economic component is concerned, our response is guided by the principle of the SDGs, Leave no one behind. This means putting the fight against poverty at the centre, as well as the fight against discrimination, exclusion and inequality. In 2020, EUR 29 million was already spent as part of the socio-economic response to save jobs, guarantee access to food and provide access to education. Let me give you some examples. Additional funds were allocated to the FAO Special Fund for Emergency and Rehabilitation Activities. An additional contribution was made to the ILO for the Global Flagship Programme on Building Social Protection Floors for All, aimed at Burkina Faso and Senegal. BIO's capital was increased to provide additional emergency financing for local companies in difficulty by COVID-19, and a call for thematic projects COVID-19 and gender-related violence was launched. In addition to these targeted initiatives, attention will also be paid to monitoring the impact of COOVID-19 in order to learn lessons and to steer current interventions. Moreover, the fight against inequality has been an important priority for many NGOs for many years, including Oxfam. As inequality is growing exponentially as a result of the COOVID-19 crisis, we also expect an increasing number of actions from civil society. The actions will be supported by the Belgian Development Cooperation under the new programmes, which will start in 2022. As far as the impact on women and girls is concerned, recent UN Women data show that the pandemic threatens to plunge 47 million women and girls into extreme poverty, bringing the total number living in extreme poverty to 435 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u19	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The Oxfam report unfortunately confirms how vulnerable the poorest sections of the population are to the coronavirus. The crisis only makes social inequality more poignant than before. Mr Lacroix mentioned the vulnerability of women in the first question, particularly in the light of the covid crisis. On the one hand, there is the health aspect, as women are more often employed in the health sector. On the other hand, there is the financial aspect. Women often have poorly paid jobs and more insecure jobs, leading to job losses. It is good to hear that targeted initiatives are being taken. I hope that you will continue to take initiatives at international level, so that the issue remains on the agenda with the aim of addressing inequalities in partner countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u20	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Belgium have recently signed a memorandum of understanding under which Belgian cooperation will support a project to integrate young people into the DRC through a structure called "Kin Emploi". Minister, I am pleased to see the cooperation between our two countries strengthened since 2019. This new project is an illustration of this. Can you tell us more about the concrete content of this project and its objectives? What will be its exact functioning? How does it intend to act to combat youth unemployment? What budget will be allocated to it? How long is it supposed to last?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u21	Madam President, Mr De Maegd, on 24 January 2021 Belgium and the Democratic Republic of the Congo signed the specific convention of the new Belgian government cooperation programme, entitled "Kin Emploi". The objective of the programme is to support the economic integration of young people from Kinshasa into decent jobs with special attention for women. The programme provides technical and vocational training as well as support, intermediation on the labour market and support for incubators and innovative enterprises. Most of our government cooperation programmes in the DRC are carried out within the country in provinces that are most often orphaned from development assistance. The new programme will, however, be implemented in Kinshasa. This city has enormous training and employment needs for its population. The intervention will spread its activities around promising clusters of economic activity in terms of growth and job creation. These include food processing, renewable energy, circular economy, digital transformation and digitization of the economy, urban construction and infrastructure, Horeca and logistics and mobility. A study launched at the beginning of the programme will validate the selected sectors. The budget for this "Kin Employment" programme is EUR 10 million for an implementation period of four years. Its signature represented the final stage in the finalization of a transition programme established by our government cooperation with the DRC. The strengthening of this programme to the tune of EUR 64.5 million and the extension of five other ongoing programmes confirm the Belgian desire to strengthen the links between the two countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answer. Belgium continues to maintain extremely strong ties with the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I want proof of this in the Matonge neighbourhood, which is as much in Brussels as in Kinshasa. You are right to point out that Belgian cooperation often focuses on more remote and rural areas, more distant from aid in the DRC. That is why I consider as a positive sign the release of EUR 10 million over four years to help young people in Kinshasa enter the labour market. As you pointed out, unfortunately, women are often the most vulnerable. It is therefore important to focus on this action in the heart of the capital of the DRC, in many areas such as Horeca, renewable energy, digitisation of the economy, and I am moving on. Of course, I encourage you to continue to do so. Such projects will further strengthen our ties with the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its Kinshasa heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u23	The situation related to covid-19 has an impact on food security on the African continent, where 250 million people – almost 20 per cent of the population – are already suffering from hunger. In some regions, the consequences of the pandemic come in addition to a context dominated by persistent conflicts and the recurrence of extreme weather events. The year 2020 was marked by record floods from Senegal to Ethiopia and massive invasions of pilgrim locusts in East Africa, particularly in Kenya, Ethiopia and Somalia. According to Alexandre Le Cuziat, head of the emergency division of the World Food Programme (WFP), "in the Central Sahel, the peaks of violence have also caused massive displacements of people. In Burkina Faso, one million people were forced to leave their homes. Despite good harvests, the level of food insecurity has been at the highest in ten years." WFP assistance was increased by 30 per cent to support 13 million people. Burkina Faso is one of four countries – with Nigeria, South Sudan and Yemen – for which WFP has called for financial mobilization from the international community to address the risk of famine. In addition to emergency response, the institution is also working to develop solutions that will enable the most vulnerable populations to better cope with crises. The pandemic and the closure of borders have shown that food distributions, which still account for 60 per cent of aid, can quickly be weakened by globalized supply chains. A reality that justifies investing all the more in strengthening local agriculture. Minister, food security remains a priority in your policy brief, and the commitment to devote 15% of development cooperation to agriculture and food security through bilateral and multilateral cooperation is clearly stated. Since my group has always defended food security as one of the top development priorities, I would like to hear from you about this latest information. Have you increased the proportion of the budget allocated to WFP in this context? What about family farming support programs?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u24	Mr Lacroix, Belgium is committed to WFP. Last week, I had an inspiring conversation with Mr. Beasley, Executive Director of WFP. We discussed the importance of the fight against hunger and how it goes hand in hand with the fight against inequality. Next year, WFP will also be a partner in strengthening and facilitating the role of many strong women who often make a difference in difficult situations. We therefore support the strength of WFP, namely food assistance in emergency situations and their logistical expertise, which has been and remains crucial, especially in times of covid-19 pandemic. In 2020, we increased our support for WFP's 'Zero Hunger' organisation, with the humanitarian organisation receiving the largest financial volume for Belgium: €26,300,000. The budget allocation for 2021 is under development, but I can assure you that WFP remains a priority humanitarian partner. It should be noted that, due to the unprecedented challenges in 2020, the humanitarian budget had been increased from EUR 170 million to EUR 197 million. In 2021, there are only 170 million euros foreseen in this portfolio. To strengthen food security in the long term, I want to focus on supporting small farmers. They form the backbone of these local food systems and play an important role as food producers; but they also provide jobs. Unfortunately, this group is often among the poorest and most affected by food insecurity. Belgian development cooperation has gained considerable expertise in rural development and food security. Agriculture is a priority sector for government cooperation, for example through the project of the former Belgian Food Security Fund (FBSA). I would ask that attention be paid to this when creating new bilateral portfolios. We also fund many NGOs working on food security. Belgium is active in various international organizations, such as the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) and CGIAR. International research has shown that more investment is needed in agriculture. I will therefore commit myself to devote 15 per cent of our official development assistance (ODA). Finally, I would also like to refer to the thematic dossier that we are developing on the climate in the Sahel, where farmers are affected by drought, floods and land degradation. Indeed, family farming is often the most affected by the consequences of climate change. As you know and as you have already said, at least 270 million people live on the brink of famine. That is an unacceptable figure. We must not forget that behind this huge figure, there is always one person. Every person who suffers from hunger is too much. I am therefore committed to making food security a priority in my policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u25	Minister, thank you for listing the decisions you have taken and are going to take with bilateral and multilateral partners in order to effectively combat hunger in the world, particularly in Africa. I welcome the fact that you have had personal contact with WFP officials and that you are going to make it one of the major challenges of your policy, as well as food security, in particular for the emergence of a more resilient and family farming society in Africa, which is one of the only possible vectors to get these people out of this unprecedented food crisis and further aggravated by the covid. An article from the World at the end of December indicated that every year three million children die of end on Earth. It is a total humanitarian disaster and we must stand by these people to help them as best we can.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u26	Minister, in July 2020, the Canadian palm oil plantation company Feronia, supported at arm's length by European Development Finance Institutions (DFIs) was put into liquidation. In eight years, these public "banks" have lent or invested nearly $150 million in Feronia-PHC. Thus, in 2015, the Belgian Public Investment Corporation for developing countries, BIO, 100% owned by the State and dependent on your department, lent €9.7 million to PHC. The audit firm Ernst&Young was tasked with finding investors who could save PHC. According to BIO, 49 were contacted, but only one agreed to inject money into the plantations: Straight KKM 2 Limited (alias KKM), an investment fund housed in Mauritius, which in itself is already a question. BIO also decided to cancel 50% of PHC's debt as part of its restructuring, provided that a new environmental and social action plan (Paes) was implemented to improve the "environmental and social aspects" of the project. According to your general policy note, BIO should invest in companies that pay decent wages, provide access to social protection, prohibit discrimination, pay their taxes and respect the environment, which was absolutely not the case with Feronia, which is supported by journalistic reports and surveys. In your view, again, if this proves necessary, the management contract will be amended to allow these adjustments. So I'd like to ask you about that. Have you made contact with BIO regarding this distressing case of support for Feronia? Could we, as parliamentarians, have access to the Paes (environmental and social action plan) which conditions the cancellation of 50% of the debt to BIO? How do you plan to position yourself against the 50% debt cancellation? What do you think of the idea of putting in place binding European criteria for companies so that they can subscribe to financing from Development Banks in Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u27	Madam President, Madam Minister, a recent report by several NGOs, including the Belgian FIAN, denounces the human rights violations committed by the palm oil company Feronia, which operates in Congo and is funded by several European development banks, including BIO. The company makes millions of euros lost, apparently does not comply with the imposed development objectives and pays its employees less than the statutory minimum wage. On 12 November 2020, the first world summit of development banks took place in Paris. On that occasion, I wrote a common statement to the participants of the summit, together with colleagues from the PS and Ecolo and other MPs from Germany and the Netherlands, to point out to them four major shortcomings, namely the lack of social accountability, the lack of involvement of local communities, the lack of a clear long-term vision and the lack of commitment to climate and environment. You are very aware of the problem. That proves several passages in your policy paper. You refer, among other things, to BIO as a lever for social protection, to the role of BIO in supporting the local private sector and to investing in companies that pay decent wages. I have the following questions for you. Have you been able to take note of the report? What's your response to the report? What steps will you take to turn BIO into a real development bank, investing in local companies and communities working with sustainable working conditions for people and the environment? What measures do you take to prevent cases such as Feronia from reappearing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u28	Minister, my question is in line with those of my colleagues who have been following this issue for a long time. On 28 January, a number of Belgian non-governmental organizations (NGOs) published a report on the financing of Feronia palm oil plantations. This report goes back to Feronia's bankruptcy, which received $150 million from European development banks, including $11 million from the public company BIO. It is recalled that when transferring assets to an investment company, BIO agreed to cancel 50% of its debt on the sole condition that a new environmental and social action plan be implemented to improve the environmental and social aspects of the project and the situation of communities living in its area of influence. If the objectives of this project are met, 80 per cent of the debt will be written off. The report highlights the limitations of investment in industrial agriculture, i.e. the appropriation of community land, the reluctance of development banks to invest in community activities rather than in these private equity funds - which use public investments to serve their interests - and the abandonment of mandatory legal requirements and compliance with binding human rights standards in favour of voluntary complaints mechanisms, which are often disadvantageous for local communities. The government agreement and your policy note emphasize the need for the private sector to meet environmental, social and fiscal standards. What do we already know about KKM's environmental and social action plan? What is its timetable for implementation? Can we already have access to it? BIO is committed to supporting and accelerating mediation resulting from the processing of the complaint filed by several communities with the independent complaints mechanism. When will the mediation process actually be initiated? What is BIO's planned exit strategy in this region? How will local communities be involved in its development? Will we have access to this strategy? Will it be presented and debated in Parliament? Finally, what substantive work are you planning at this stage to better frame BIO's investments?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, Feronia was the subject of a press article at the end of last week. I am glad to be able to explain my position on this subject. With regard to the question of my contacts with BIO on the subject, I can tell you clearly that this issue, which has been problematic for several years, does not correspond to my vision of development cooperation. I asked my firm to contact BIO's management immediately in order to resolve this issue and ensure that such a situation will not occur again. On a moral and ethical level, it is not acceptable for us to invest in a company whose largest shareholders operate through offshore financial structures. I therefore demanded that these vehicles be removed from Feronia's shareholder structure immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, we could have decided to withdraw from Feronia immediately, which would have been the easiest solution. However, that would also have meant leaving the workers of that poor region to their fate. That is why I have so far decided to remain present and try to improve the situation. Given the critical social situation of the workers and the risk of a social bloodbath following the premature departure of BIO from the company, we asked that BIO close all its ties with Feronia by 30 June 2022 at the latest. In the meantime, every effort must be made to improve the wages and conditions of workers. This is extremely critical and we hope that every effort will be made to mitigate social risks. This gradual release of BIO was announced by BIO's Board of Directors on January 26th. I have also recently been able to read the report by FIAN. I will also contact the authors of the report to see how the situation can be improved more quickly. Some of the conclusions of the report surprised me, particularly with regard to conciliation with the local community. I already instructed BIO to speed up the implementation of the conciliation. Feronia was asked to make a specific budget available for this purpose. Since early 2020 there has been a mechanism of development banks DEG and FMO to mediate between communities and Feronia. Due to the limitations of the covid pandemic, this mediation has not yet started. As soon as the sanitary measures relax, this mediation can start. The Social and Environmental Action Plan (SMA) is indeed finished. It contains more than 80 work slopes. Feronia will soon publish a summary of it on his website. The plan consists of several phases of implementation to improve the working conditions of the workers, the living conditions of the local communities and the environmental status of the company. The company has never made any profit so far, which confirms its financial difficulties, to the point that its survival is threatened. This poses a threat to 5,000 jobs. In order to avoid bankruptcy, BIO and the other creditors have negotiated a progressive debt waiver. This is linked to the improvement of the social and environmental conditions of the activity and living conditions of the local community, with particular attention being paid to their working conditions. In order to achieve the SMA's objective, this waiver will occur progressively up to 80%. This should allow the PHC to survive and ensure the jobs and productivity of palm oil for the Congolese population. I asked BIO to do everything possible to increase salaries and working conditions under the restructuring plan. BIO is in contact with the other development banks on the subject. This is a very critical point. We will ensure that everything is done to reduce social risks. BIO already bases itself on binding criteria to assess the admissibility of a file. These are criteria of the World Bank or the International Labour Organisation. For the future, we are currently preparing an action plan to change a number of things at BIO and ensure that this can no longer happen in the future. I will tell you more about this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u30	Minister, I thank you for this determined response, which demonstrates your ability to learn the right lessons from such a fiasco – you must use this term well. Millions of euros have been swallowed up without ever being able to approach the original objectives of the project. We have often, with colleagues, been able to debate this project here in Parliament. I really think that this change, this new mandate must serve as a support point for another vision of development and other types of projects to be supported. This is almost the counter-example, the perfect example of what should not be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u31	Madam Secretary, it is good to hear that there will be an action plan for BIO. I am also pleased to hear that there are contacts with the other development banks, because that is not just a problem in Belgium. I hope you will have the debate with us on this in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u32	Madam Minister, thank you. We did not doubt for a second that the Feronia project did not correspond to your conception of development. Anyway, it's good to hear you say it! However, some questions have not been answered, although I do not think that is your responsibility. This shows the scale of the challenge you face in this case. First of all, you tell us that we will receive a summary of Feronia's action plan. However, the issue of access to information is one of the stumbling blocks on which we have been grappling since the beginning. For this reason, it is not a summary that we want to obtain, but access to this data, because it is normal for Parliament to be able to consult them. Because we don't have access to it, it's a real problem. I therefore invite you to incorporate this aspect into your thinking with BIO. I mean, we can't leave people there, but we're going to lose 80% of the investment. When I look at the pressure on NGOs for half a dollar of funding and see our difficulty in alleviating the debts of several countries, I see that 80 per cent of the millions invested go into smoke. That's not fair. You're telling us you're going to launch an action plan to improve BIO. You will receive our full support in this regard. I recall once again the problems of transparency in human rights and the impact on the environment. These are the darkest aspects of BIO projects. However, they are not the only ones: other programmes are under way. It is therefore important that we get to work as a matter of urgency. Of course, we will come back to discuss this issue in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u33	Madam President, Minister, on January 25, the day of the opening of Davos' Agenda, Oxfam published its annual report on inequality, entitled "Virus of Inequalities". His painting is far from pink. According to the report, the 1,000 richest individuals on the planet would have been able, in just nine months, to compensate for the losses they have suffered since the beginning of the crisis, while it will take more than ten years for the least advantaged humans to recover. Another interesting fact is that between March 18 and December 31, 2020, billionaires would have seen their assets grow by $3,900 billion, while the poor are becoming increasingly poorer. The non-governmental organization estimates that between 200 and 500 million people could thus have fallen into poverty. Similarly, this crisis more severely affects women in the health and welfare sectors, who occupy 70 per cent of the world's jobs. In the first month of the pandemic, and according to figures provided by UN Women, the 740 million women working in the informal economy had to cope with a 60% drop in their incomes without being able to claim social protection such as unemployment benefits. I could multiply the examples, as many as they are, and I know that each one of them would hit your convictions like mine. Structural solutions must be found. According to recent World Bank calculations, if states tackle these imbalances without delay, poverty could fall back to its pre-crisis level – which would of course be just a beginning – in three years, against more than ten without concrete actions. As an encouragement to work in this direction, I have tabled a motion for a resolution to support the establishment of a global social protection fund, which I think would be an important step in the right direction. Minister, have you read this Oxfam report? Is the problem addressed at European level? In this context, what are the solutions advocated by Belgium? You announced in your note that you would make social protection a priority. Have you consulted with civil society in this regard? What is the status of the discussions on the position paper of the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation (DGD) as a frame of reference for the Belgian development cooperation strategy on social protection?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u34	Madam President, Mr Ben Achour, I fully share your concerns, as well as those raised in the Oxfam report, which was presented to my colleagues. The crisis of the covid-19 represents a major regression on the road to achieving the goals in terms of sustainable development. The document of my administration is a very interesting source of information which has been prepared in consultation with academic bodies and civil society. It serves as a basis for our reflections on concrete initiatives. One of the initiatives relates to a regional thematic portfolio on social protection in the Great Lakes region of Central Africa. This is a real novelty in terms of development cooperation. With an indicative budget of 40 to 50 million over five years, we want to strengthen our concrete action on the ground, among other things, to create social protection mechanisms for the benefit of informal workers. From the outset, I wanted to involve and consult very widely on this project, including Belgian civil society, particularly the actors in the common strategic framework. At the international level, we have also consulted the International Labour Organization. The tripartite expertise and logic (workers' unions, employers and government) seems to us to be particularly relevant. At European Union level, in 2019, thus before the covid crisis, a broad discussion led to the drawing up of Council conclusions on the subject of inequality. The Council notes that many partner countries still face higher levels of inequality than 30 years ago, which poses a threat to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. The Council reaffirms that the fight against inequality is an internal and external priority of the European Union. In its conclusions, the Committee recommends support for the universal social protection system with universal access to basic services and support for innovative systems. From a concrete and financial point of view, the European Union is programming its own development cooperation, through which around 30% of Belgian official development assistance is channelled. This programming takes the form of the Team Europe initiative, which aims to involve the energies of the European Union and the Member States in cooperation programming in the partner countries. I personally pleaded with Commissioner Urpilainen to support Team Europe initiatives. There is special attention to the establishment of social protection systems, particularly in Central Africa, and it has encouraged me to become the champion of this initiative. I can therefore confirm that Belgium will play its part in the European system to promote this issue. Finally, at the international level, this idea of a global fund for social protection is growing. We absolutely must raise the social issue, for example that of health insurance for all, to a high international level. That is why, at the invitation of the Global Coalition for Social Protection Floors, I will speak at a conference organized on the sidelines of the meeting of the United Nations Commission for Social Development on 12 February, with Professor Olivier De Schutter in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u35	Madam Minister, thank you. Of course, I welcome this convergence, of which I had no doubt, on the usefulness of active reflection on social protection in developing countries. What I wanted to highlight in my question was the impact of the covid on inequality. I take advantage of my reply to say that in reality we are all in the same boat, since statistics have the same trends in Belgium. By way of illustration, the mortality rate of men aged 40 to 65 is up to five times higher in the ten lowest income groups compared to the ten highest income groups, as the lowest paid occupations were also the ones that were most exposed, and remain, to the virus. In addition to the universal social protection that I look forward to being able to defend in this Parliament, Oxfam's other two major demands, which I fully share, are the greater taxation of the richest and a fair distribution of vaccines. On these two points, I have no doubt that our convergences are also total.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u36	Minister, on 14 January 2011, the Tunisian people forced President Ben Ali to leave the national territory, putting an end to an undivided 23-year rule. Ten years later, while the country has partially reaped the fruits of its jasmine revolution, the economic and social transition is still pending and the situation has worsened due to the effects of the covid crisis. In 2020, Tunisian GDP fell by 8% and the tourism sector fell by 68%. Public sector debt reached 84.8% of GDP. Unemployment currently affects one in three young people. It is probably in this context that the first motivation of the demonstrators who have been going down the street for a few weeks, even though other demands have been grafted into it. Civil society calls the response of law enforcement officials to this movement disproportionate. On Sunday 17 January alone, 632 people were arrested, according to official figures from the Tunisian Ministry of the Interior. Under the previous legislature, a resolution on the support of Tunisia by Belgium had been adopted. Requests to the federal government ranged from military cooperation to socio-economic support, including strengthening our development cooperation through "all available instruments". I asked your predecessor about this last July. Minister, what are Belgium's bilateral and European actions to strengthen support for this young and fragile democracy? What about the possibility of making Tunisia a partner in Belgian development cooperation, knowing that the government agreement opens up this possibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u37	Mr President, the list of partner countries for government cooperation will be assessed during this parliamentary term. My priority now is to restart the programming cycles in the partner countries where the current programmes are coming to an end. My intention is also to keep a focus on the least developed countries on this list. This is not the case for Tunisia, which is a middle-income country. This does not mean that I do not share your concern about the current situation in Tunisia. The country is undergoing a serious economic and social crisis, which is aggravated by the covid-19. Although, since 2008, the country is no longer on the list of our partner countries for government cooperation, Belgian cooperation is very active there. This in particular through BIO, which has invested with a portfolio of about 15 million euros in local companies, and in a micro-finance institution. Our development agency ENABEL is also involved in the implementation of a European project called THAMM:Towards a holistic approach to migration management. This sub-regional project was launched at the end of 2020 and concerns the development of skills and the support of talent in order to gain access to real employment opportunities, both at partner and host country level. As part of these activities financed by the European Commission, ENABEL is also negotiating a headquarters agreement to set up an office in Tunisia.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u38	Madam Minister, as much as our convergence on the previous subject was strong, so much we do not share the same view on the place Tunisia could occupy in our arsenal of cooperation policy. Once again, the government agreement would make it possible to amplify the cooperation work with Tunisia much more. It is known that the record of Arab revolutions is often dramatic and has often led to civil wars resulting in thousands of deaths. Tunisia was the first country to embark on the path of democracy and is also the least successful country in its democratic transition, but this transition remains extremely fragile. As long as the Tunisian population cannot reap the concrete fruits of this democratic revolution, it will remain very fragile and will always face the risk of turning once again - as was the case in Egypt - into much more authoritarian regimes, even if Tunisian civil society remains highly educated and highly developed from this point of view. I really think that, in the name of this fragility, we need to invest much more heavily in cooperation and development alongside this country, in order to help it achieve this time-consuming democratic transition. I think it is our duty, at the gates of the Mediterranean, to support this young democracy stuck between these two particularly unstable giants, Algeria and Libya.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u39	Madam Minister, during the discussion of your policy statement and your policy paper, we already had the opportunity to talk about the private sector strategy. I was wondering what direction things are moving in. There is indeed a general strategy, but you also want to place your own emphasis on cooperation with the private sector. In view of the objectives, instruments and programmes, it is necessary to clarify and specify what will happen. In the past, initiatives in this area were mainly limited to BIO, while a multi-actor approach was lacking. I said during the discussion that it was important to involve Enabel, alongside BIO, NGOs and other actors, with a view to a good policy. Have you already taken or will you continue to take initiatives to improve the coherence and interaction between the various actors concerned with the private sector in development?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u40	Thank you for your question. I use them to make it clear that the development of the private sector is not an end in itself for me, but a means of helping people out of poverty, by giving people a job and an income. As far as the multi-actor approach is concerned, I agree with you on the need for coordination between the various actors in Belgian development cooperation. However, this requires a thorough analysis of the different contexts in which all actors work. For example, we find that BIO and Enabel often work in very different countries or that the way in which both organisations work is very different. For example, BIO has a very limited presence on the ground, unlike Enabel and non-governmental actors. In recent years, more cooperation has been sought on a number of occasions. In 2018, a working group was set up, consisting of experts from BIO, Finexpo and Enabel, chaired by the Director-General of the DGD. The aim of the Working Group was to promote co-operation, to develop synergies and to exploit existing complementarities. Only two meetings of the working group took place at that time. Since I am convinced that better cooperation between the various actors can lead to better results, I have asked my administration to reactivate the working group and come up with proposals for more and better cooperation. In 2019, a joint field mission took place in Uganda with representatives of my administration, BIO and Enabel. BIO then made a study with recommendations for Enabel. It turned out, however, that even more would be needed to achieve good cooperation. We are therefore currently looking at a number of fundamental elements in the functioning of BIO in order to draw our conclusions on how to better cooperate with other actors. I hope to be able to come forward with more concrete proposals in a few months' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u41	Madam Secretary, we look forward to it. I support you in your opinion that the development of the private sector should not be an end in itself, but should indeed be a means of creating decent work, for example, which is an emphasis that you also put very clearly in your policy. It's a good thing you're reactivating the working group. Indeed, it is necessary to involve actors such as Entrepreneurs for Entrepreneurs and Incofin, institutions with a lot of experience who have won international awards, in order to achieve the ultimate objective of giving people decent work and achieving economic growth.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u42	Madam Minister, the spread of COOVID-19 is also increasing in Africa. The number of infections increased sharply in January, while the first wave did not. The most famous example is South Africa, where there are over 500 deaths and 9,000 infections a day. In total, 42.550 people were killed in the country and more than 1.42 million were infected, almost all with the South African variant. The problem is underestimated in many African countries because there is insufficient testing and registration. Moreover, health systems are weak and measures such as lockdowns are strongly affecting the living situation of people already living in poverty. This would push 40 million people into extreme poverty. It is a very complex situation and I would like to know how Belgian policy is tackling it today, both politically and on the ground. How do we deal with this in our priority countries? What concrete actions are there in relation to the roll-out of vaccines, prevention and cooperation with NGOs? How do you handle it by country? What's the strategy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u43	Mrs Van Hoof, my administration developed a strategy paper in April 2020 setting out what actions will be taken in the short term to support actors in the field and in the medium term to make the healthcare system resilient. This Belgian strategy is based on the existing Belgian focus on the importance of integrated health systems. Based on the expertise and guidelines of the WHO and the exchange of information on the response of different countries, we know what works, namely the rapid identification and isolation of confirmed cases, the tracing of contacts and quarantine, the optimisation of care, also the essential non-covid care, communication on prevention measures and the confidence of the population and the involvement of communities in the fight against the epidemic. At the end of 2020, my administration questioned the posts in our partner countries about their needs in the context of the national vaccination plans they are required to draw up. The objective of these plans is to vaccinate 60% of the population. These plans are a requirement to be able to receive vaccines via COVAX. Most partner countries still have to meet these requirements. It is also in this context that COVAX and WHO provide technical and logistical support. We want to support partner countries in their plans to roll out vaccines based on existing experiences and the Ebola Response. All partners have set up specific COOVID-19 coordination platforms and mechanisms, including with the help of the WHO and the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention. Partner countries are hoping for financial support, primarily through the World Bank, from donors to bear the total cost of vaccination. In almost all countries, the first 20% will be obtained with subsidised vaccines via COVAX. However, it remains uncertain how vaccination of the remaining 40% of the population will be financed. Specific questions for additional technical or financial support from partner countries to Belgian Development Cooperation have not yet been received. These can be expected in the course of further refinement of national vaccination plans and vaccines granted by COVAX. The Belgian funding of the Coalition for Epidemiic Preparedness Innovations contributes to the global ongoing research into both known mutations UK, South Africa, Brazil and new potential covid vaccines. As regards awareness raising in civil society, in the 2020 reorientation of indirect actors, active in health, the majority went to supporting civil society organisations, which help particularly vulnerable groups such as women and young people with information on the COOVID-19 plans and their participation in the national picture. In 2020, we provided support for various types of international actors, both for health, with an increase of EUR 4 million in the Belgian contribution to the WHO, and for the socio-economic aspect with additional support for OHCHR for Central Africa. For the Palestinian territories, support was provided to the Global Survival Fund, support for the ILO's Global Flagship Programme on Social Protection, contributions to the International Service for Human Rights and thus support for the human rights-based approach to development. I would also like to refer to my comprehensive answer which I gave in response to the complex questions that were asked at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u44	Thank you. I couldn't be there then, so I'll definitely reread that. I can imagine that you have already discussed this in detail. It is important that we do not stick to plans, but take action in this area and ensure that no more people end up in poverty and that we do not continue to rattle on the ground, or even fall sharply in Africa. We may all have been vaccinated in Europe, but if nothing happens in Africa, the virus keeps moving. It is not only in their interest, the first thing that must be at the forefront, but also in our interest to continue to develop these actions in parallel. People are not sufficiently aware of this. You have an important role to play in raising awareness. They think Europe and the rest are fine, but I think we still have a lot of long work ahead of us. I see you nodding and hope we're on the same page there. I support you in your actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u45	Madam President, Minister, CNCD-11.11.11 has recently communicated its memorandum on Central Africa, which summarizes the dome's recommendations for this region of the world. Among the four main issues raised in this text, I will focus on the second, which concerns respect for democratic principles, human rights and the strengthening of civil society. While in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, a slight improvement – still fragile and requiring constant vigilance – is being observed in terms of respect for individual freedoms, in Rwanda, the CNCD stresses, on the other hand, the muzzle of the press, the repression of the opposition and the lack of space allocated to a critical civil society. As for Burundi, the restriction of civil and political space is also a clear phenomenon. We know, for example, that the country ranks only 160th out of 180 in the Reporters Without Borders press freedom index. The CNCD's suggestions on this subject are very numerous and I cannot mention them all. They range from increasing financial assistance to civil society, in proportion to official development assistance, to maintaining the funding of the Joint United Nations Office for Human Rights and strengthening the Belgian system for the protection and reception of threatened human rights defenders. Minister, have you read this memorandum? What actions have been put in place to meet the expectations expressed on this issue of respect for democratic principles, human rights and the strengthening of civil society? On the issue of the management of natural resources for the benefit of local people, I would like to know how you welcome the request to support civil society in DRC in monitoring the application of the new mining code.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u46	Madam President, Mr Ben Achour, I have indeed read the memorandum on Central Africa of the CNCD-11.11.11. Meetings between my services and CNCD-11.11.11 have already been held to discuss them, and others are still planned in the coming days. Respect for democratic principles and human rights is one of the priorities of Belgian Development Cooperation. We are starting from a law-based approach to ensure support for influencing the development process. The closure of civic space in some of our partner countries is therefore an important issue in the political dialogue with these countries. Where relevant, the new government cooperation agreements will include a separate section to promote the rule of law, the fight against corruption, human rights, civil space and/or democratisation. In addition, I intend to support projects in our partner countries aimed at implementing the recommendations of the Universal Periodic Review of the Human Rights Council and the United Nations. We are also exploring the possibility of supporting projects to protect human rights defenders and civic space. Specifically, with regard to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, I can confirm that my services are studying the continuation of our support to the United Nations Joint Office for Human Rights, in particular through the financing of new projects for the establishment of transitional justice mechanisms in certain Congolese provinces. The strengthening of civil society in partner countries is mainly through our partnership with Belgian non-governmental actors. Some 50 actors in Belgian non-governmental cooperation are active in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. They receive support of around €38 million a year, representing almost 36 per cent of our official development assistance. These sectors are in the process of developing their next five-year 2022-2026 programmes, which will be approved in the near future. I welcome the suggestion to continue to promote the management of natural resources for the benefit of local people. The CNCD-11.11.11 programme, which we are currently supporting, includes strengthening the capacity of local civil society in mining. Like other Belgian non-governmental actors, they have, of course, the possibility, within the framework of their next 2022-2026 programming, to propose actions to continue to strengthen Congolese civil society in this area. Moreover, since 2018 Belgian cooperation has also allocated more than EUR 5 million to anti-corruption projects, particularly in the mining sector. These include strengthening Congolese civil society in its capacity to monitor, report abuses and raise public awareness. Similarly, Belgium is fully invested in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), which has been funded since 2017. Additional support of €2 million was granted at the end of 2020 to enable EITI to finance interventions concerning the increasing fragility of artisanal diggers and miners as a result of the health crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u47	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive and comprehensive response. We obviously share, once again, the same concerns, which I welcome. A first way of putting all these principles into practice is to support the implementation of the mining code that I referred to in my question. I am thinking, in particular, of the measure which provides for a contribution of 0.3% of the turnover of mining companies to be allocated to Community development. In itself, this would already be a great step forward which should call for many more, so far we are leaving in these countries in terms of freedom of civil society and democratic principles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u48	Madam Secretary, there are terrible situations in Tigray, if we can believe what appears in the media. According to the UN, over two out of five million Tigreans urgently need humanitarian aid. There are evidence of ethnic violence, murders, looting and rapes by the government army, expelled militias and Eritrean military. The difficulty is that all communication lines are closed and there is no access to food. Of the 40 hospitals, 35 are unreachable. There is water scarcity in the capital Mekelle and a lot of malnutrition. Education is no longer functioning and there are shortages of materials and food. There are also many human rights violations. On 19 December, the European Union announced that it would provide EUR 23.7 million of additional humanitarian aid to Ethiopia, Sudan and Kenya. The High Representative Borrell also said on 15 January that the European Union will suspend budgetary support of EUR 88 million until humanitarian aid organisations are given access. It is therefore a question of direct budgetary support. In February, Finnish foreign minister Pekka Haavisto will travel to Ethiopia as a humanitarian mediator for the European Union. Hence the following questions. What steps is our country taking to persuade Ethiopia to give immediate access to the Tigray region that is difficult to reach? Will our country work within the European Union for additional humanitarian aid? What levers are being used to ensure access, given the suspension of budgetary support to the Ethiopian Government?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u49	Mrs Van Hoof, Belgium is concerned about the humanitarian situation in Tigray, a region in Ethiopia, and is following developments closely. I encourage all efforts that can lead to peace in this region. Since 6 November, Belgium has been calling for an immediate de-escalation and for the protection of its citizens. Since then, Belgium has also advocated an immediate ceasefire, respect for international humanitarian law and ensuring unlimited humanitarian access. Our embassy in Ethiopia also had an exchange of views with the authorities on the conflict and recalled our position. At European level, we support the processes set up for this purpose. For example, Belgium contributes to the preparation of joint messages on the situation, including in COHAFA and the Foreign Affairs Council. For example, access to humanitarian aid, respect for international humanitarian law, the protection of civilians and the security of humanitarian workers were included in the statement by the High Representative Josep Borell on behalf of the 27 EU countries, published on 25 December. It communicated that position to Ethiopian Deputy Prime Minister Mekonnen during a discussion on 9 January 2021. At the level of the United Nations Security Council, several foreign services are closely monitoring this issue. They ensure that the Belgian position is reflected. Belgium will continue to promote respect for international humanitarian rights, a lasting solution to tensions through dialogue and a leading role for the African Union and the countries of the region. At the European level, on 19 November 2020, the Commission released EUR 4 million for immediate humanitarian assistance in Ethiopia. At the Belgian level, we have spent more than 60% of flexible funding on humanitarian aid, as it can be used quickly where the need is highest. For example, the flexible fund of OCHA, the Central Emergency Response Fund, to which Belgium is the main donor, has already released 13 million euros for the crisis in Ethiopia. Veder also grants core funding to OCHA, the Red Cross, the WFP and UNHCR, who are also present in Ethiopia with their humanitarian activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic360x.u50	When I read about this, I feel that we are dealing with a genocide, but that the corona epidemic is getting a little snowy on the international agenda. That is dramatic, because the reports that come through are about rape, torture and starvation. That equals genocide. It's about millions of people. It is a drama to which the great pandemic pays little attention. I suspect we'll be dealing with an international investigation in this area. Business isn't getting any better. It's just getting worse. We're dealing with the scorched earth technique. Eritreans just destroy everything on their way back to Eritrea. The population dies or remains in famine. From an international solidarity, we must pay attention to this, because they are horrible scenarios.
