ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic491x.u1	Mr Francken is still stuck on the Committee on Defence, which is finalising. We shall then first deal with Mrs Goethal's questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic491x.u2	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you indicated that you want to make Belgium a smart nation. This means that citizens can easily address the public authorities with questions, without having to worry about the political and administrative burden needed to provide this answer. Reforms are particularly necessary in the area of IT governance. The COVID-19 crisis also highlights the need for digital progress. Citizens, businesses and governments were forced to communicate and cooperate digitally. Companies, especially start-ups and SMEs, often face a great deal of red tape. In your policy paper, you state that in the short term you will propose a new Digital Plan Belgium, in which you want to involve all public and private players in the digital transition. How can and will the relays be used for digitisation in the context of administrative simplification? Which projects will be supported? How do you work with the Secretary of State for Relance, Mr Dermine? Can you give us an update on the new Digital Plan Belgium already? Which projects of administrative simplification and digitisation are included?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic491x.u3	Mr President, Mrs Goethals, the Belgian Plan for Recovery and Resilience, which was presented to the European Commission on 30 April, is the result of coordination between all the governments of the country. Everyone understands that digitisation also means administrative simplification. The resources provided for in this plan will make it possible to speed up digitisation and administrative simplification. The digitisation of the federal state thus occupies an important place in the recovery plan. 25 projects were selected to contribute to the digital transformation of our public services, representing an investment of around 580 million euros, excluding VAT. The digitisation of public services and the remembrance of processes can relieve citizens and businesses. In developing this important plan, my policy cell and I are in regular contact with the Secretary of State for Relance and his policy cell. Your second question was about smart nation. The idea is to bring together energies of a territory in a coherent way. Today, after eight months as Secretary of State for Digitalization, I am convinced that the talents are already present in Belgium. What remains to be done is to set up a coherent and efficient consultation process, a new method that brings together and creates new content at the same time. The principle of digital minds is an essential part of it and still needs to be extended, just as the relaunch plans will have an important place in it. I will come back to this after Europe has expressed its views on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic491x.u4	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. It is good to hear that you are doing this and that 25 projects have already been selected for an amount of EUR 580 million. It is logical that you need to commemorate and recreate a number of processes in order to move forward. It is good that you already have regular contacts with the Secretary of State for Relance. I am looking forward to what you will do after the EU has given more explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic491x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, on 20 June 2019, the European Union adopted the new Directive 2019/1024 on open data and the re-use of public sector information, the so-called open data directive, which will extend the scope for re-use of public sector information. With this open data directive, the EU aims to remove permanent barriers to the use of public sector information and publicly funded information. The Open Data Directive replaces the PSI Directive, which had already been amended by a 2013 Directive. The PSI Directive was transposed federally into the law of 4 May 2016 on the use of public sector information. The EU's open data directive must be transposed into our Belgian law by 17 July this year at the latest. We note that on 12 March 2021, following an opinion from the Council of State, the Flemish Government finally adopted a draft decree transposing the open data directive into Flemish legislation. At federal level, that hasn't happened yet. I would have liked to have heard from you about the situation. Mr Secretary of State, what legislative changes are still needed to implement the Open Data Directive? What's the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic491x.u6	The transposition of the third European Open Data Directive should be carried out by amending the law of 4 May 2016. In order to implement the provisions of the new Directive, one or more royal decrees will also have to be issued which mainly concern research data and high value datasets, the so-called high value datasets. At present, my services are in consultation with all federated entities and the preparatory work is being carried out to achieve the most coherent transposition of the Directive at all levels of competence. The transposition has been delayed. The main reasons for this are the discussions about the high value datasets. The European Commission should adopt an implementing act setting out the specific list of the HRDA. Although the list does not need to be directly included in the transposition law, it is the subject of budgetary and political discussions on the availability of free access to certain important data, such as the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises or our meteorological and cartographic data. The budgetary implications of the HVDA in the short and medium term are currently being examined together with the relevant public administrations. The aim is to obtain concrete elements for a budgetary and political agreement before the transposition of the Directive is fully completed. A large part of the Member States are in a situation identical to that of Belgium. Nevertheless, in order to continue to make concrete progress, a draft bill and draft royal decree are currently being finalised in parallel with the discussions on the HVDA.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic491x.u7	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your comprehensive reply. That's enough for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic491x.u8	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55016401C, 55017628C and 55017630C by Mr Francken were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55016402C) by Mr Francken and No. Mrs Thibaut's 55018127C were postponed.
