ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, there are a lot of questions and questions on the agenda today. However, at 11.30 a.m. we must start discussing amendments. We will, in consultation with the cabinet, set a new date for further examination of the questions. That will probably be next Wednesday, after the hearing with the National Bank. I would remind you of the possibility in the Rules of Procedure of referring to the written text of the question. That can certainly be done in a topical debate. If all the questions have already been asked by colleagues before you, you can limit yourself to doing so so that we can deal with the agenda more quickly. That is not an obligation; I merely remind you of that possibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u2	I would receive as many answers as possible to my questions today and refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u3	Minister, you will not blame me for not being able to stay to hear the answers. I will read them in the report, because I am also expected in the Committee on Social Affairs. I will therefore sum up the content of my question, which concerned the decision taken by ministerial decree under the Wilmès government to replace the reimbursement of cancelled package travel with a "coronavirus" voucher. The voucher is valid for a period of one year, which may be extended by six months. Could you give us any figures on the number of coronavirus vouchers? I assume that many travellers are involved. How many vouchers have been issued since March 20, 2020? What amount do they represent? Since these vouchers are valid for one year, the first travellers will be able to claim reimbursement for their trip as early as mid-March this year. This is a serious concern for the sector, which is likely to grow under claims in the coming months. These concerns have been heard by the government and I know that you are developing a solution in consultation with your colleagues Eva De Bleeker and Vincent Van Peteghem. What are your discussions and what will be the proposals put on the table? Since June 20, 2020, there is no longer an obligation to accept such vouchers and the traveller can now demand a refund. However, as the health crisis is still present and the tour operators' sector is lagging behind, do you think that a renewal of the royal decree is possible in order to continue to support the sector? I am going to the Social Affairs Committee and thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u4	Mr Minister, my question is not only about the ban on non-essential travel issued by the Consultation Committee and the compensation budget of EUR 30 million that they have put against it, but also about the call by the travel sector, which obviously shows understanding of the whole situation and did not expect many bookings for the crocus holiday. However, I am concerned that they are already calling for full booking for the summer holidays, when it is not yet clear whether everyone will be vaccinated at that time and whether travelling abroad will be able to continue as planned. The voucher system that was active in the past is no longer active. On what basis was the EUR 30 million support based? What specific costs will this cover in the sector? As a minister, what is your position on the invitation of the travel federations to book full summer holidays? What will turn out to be the case if the travels could not continue at that time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u5	Mr. Chair, I will ask my question and look forward to the minister's answer. As my colleagues have said, this was one of the very first decisions taken in March 2020, the day after the first health measures were launched. Today, we are entering an extremely critical period for the sector since the first reimbursements of coronary vouchers will be due from 20 March, which is also in the context we know, where non-essential travel is prohibited at least until 1 March. Mr Minister, we know of course that you take this issue very seriously and that you are aware of the importance of supporting the sector in order to avoid bankruptcies, but also to safeguard employment. I'd like to ask you three little questions. What measures do you intend to put in place to help this sector in difficulty? Are you considering the introduction of a financial instrument to support the cash flow of companies in the sector? I am thinking in particular of appropriations that would bridge the gap between the time of repayment and when profit margins could be found or released. Are you considering a different kind of aid for these companies, which are now in a particularly difficult and paradoxical situation? In fact, they must put people at work, not to sell services, but sometimes only to process refund files. These are the questions I wanted to ask you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u6	Thank you to ladies and gentlemen for their various questions on this important subject which actually affects a large part of the population, whether they are travel professionals or, more generally, travellers or travellers. According to the most recent figures transmitted by the professional organizations of the travel sector to the Directorate-General of the Economic Inspectorate of the SPF Economy, 210,757 vouchers corona were issued for a total value of 355,749,044.02 euros. These are vouchers issued between 20 March and 19 June 2020 pursuant to the Ministerial Order of 19 March 2020. For the so-called classic bonds issued after 19 June 2020, the Economic Inspectorate of the SPF Economy does not have precise and specific figures. As you know, the Ministerial Order of 19 March 2020 stipulated that travellers must necessarily accept vouchers. This Ministerial Order was found by the European Commission to be in breach of Directive 2015/2302 on package travel. As this was a temporary measure which ended on 20 June 2020, no infringement proceedings were initiated against Belgium by the European Commission, unlike other Member States where similar measures have been applied for a longer time. The current government will therefore take no risk in reimposing such an obligation on travel agencies. As regards the Guarantee Fund Travel, as an insurer, the fund covers the activities of a large part of the companies operating in the travel sector. In normal times, its operation is in no way compromised in the event of bankruptcy, even of large operators. See, for example, the handling of the bankrupt Thomas Cook and Neckermann in 2020. However, the corona crisis is an unforeseen and very exceptional situation which particularly affects the travel sector. Should too many of the companies affiliated to the Guarantee Fund Travel go bankrupt, this may indeed pose a problem for the reimbursement of booked trips and corona vouchers issued before 19 June 2020. A working group was set up to reach a final solution, so that no traveller should fear the reimbursement of his or her journey or a coronavoucher. In the short term, we will provide the necessary support from the government to travel to the Guarantee Fund. In the event of bankruptcy, the affected travellers will be reimbursed. In the long term, a review of the insolvency protection system is envisaged. A final decision has yet to be taken on this. We will also propose a solution to the problem of vouchers. Furthermore, in order to provide concrete and additional support to this hard-hit sector, the government has decided - at my request and at the request of my colleague Frank Vandenbroucke - to provide special assistance to tour operators in the form of a 70% wage subsidy of the capped wage cost to 30 % of the staff, so that the companies concerned can fulfil their legal and contractual obligations to their customers. Indeed, as some of you have pointed out, these companies are now obliged to keep staff at work in order to meet these obligations, in particular with regard to cancellations, refunds or travel carryovers. In other words, this staff must continue their work and must therefore be paid, but does not pay the company who employs it, since it is almost all about cancellations, carry-overs or refunds. This support measure will be valid during the first two quarters of this year, after discussion with industry representatives. An amount of EUR 30 million will be needed for its implementation, as decided last Friday. To bring it into force as soon as possible, a bill is being drafted. It will be submitted to you as soon as possible. With regard to the short-term future of the travel sector, and in particular the possibility of quickly booking new destinations, you know my prudence with regard to the prospects given and the messages sent to all sectors and to the population. You also know that this will depend on developments in the health situation and, possibly, on decisions taken by the European Union as well as by countries that are among the preferred destinations of our citizens. In the coming months, therefore, we will see what decisions will be taken on the basis of health developments. In any case, as I have indicated, our will is to continue our specific and targeted support to travel professionals, in order to help them through the crisis and to consider the future as calmly as possible, in a particularly complicated context. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am pleased that you have set up a working group to provide solutions in the short and long term. I am also pleased with the draft bill that is coming to support the travel sector. I think these are good measures, but above all I want to call for good communication. I cannot estimate how many people have questions about their travels, how many emails and texts we receive with questions like: what should we do, when do we get our money back, do we have to plan the trip again? I believe that a good communication campaign should also be launched for consumers who have many questions. The travel sector must also be properly communicated on how to obtain these temporary measures. I understand that it is still too early, but take advantage of this, because people have worked very hard without getting any income. It would be a good thing that they should not waste too much energy to get support now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. However, I still have questions about the financial aspects. What about the amount that the catering industry is hanging over its head? There is a solution for the consumer, but apart from the wage subsidy, which is certainly right, I do not hear an answer for the reimbursement of the vouchers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You explained the EUR 30 million envelope, but I remain concerned about the communication of the sector to the people. They are now calling massively to book, while there is no perspective as to what the summer holiday will look like. I think communication is very important, as my colleague said. I hope that you, as a minister, will pay sufficient attention to this, so that we will not have a major problem soon, when travel cannot continue. Consumers would not benefit from this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Honestly, I'm a little disappointed. We have been asking questions about this since September. The amounts you mention and the fact that the Guarantee Fund does not have sufficient resources to cover the coronavouchers are matters that we have known since September. It's just now that everyone's waking up. It is high time that concrete measures were taken. I heard you say that the government will provide the necessary funds in the short term. This could be huge amounts, but it is particularly important that we can offer the travel sector our own perspective. We must be able to reassure the sector. We have therefore already put forward a concrete proposal at the end of last year for the creation of a coronavoucher bank, which is also very much supported by the sector itself. I didn't hear you say anything about that. Does the government intend to set up such a coronavoucher bank? It's urgent. It's about a loan that organizers can borrow from the government to repay the coronavouchers. It doesn't really cost the federal government anything. The cases you mentioned cost a huge amount. Our proposal could reassure the travel sector itself that they can proceed in this way. We asked for urgency in order to deal with this proposal, but the majority apparently did not see the urgency of it. I am disappointed, as there are concrete proposals on the table. Is there no mention of it because the proposal comes from the opposition? However, it is very much supported by the travel sector. Last week, Hans Van der Stock, who is the spokesperson for the travel sector, argued in favour of setting up the coronavoucherbank as soon as possible. There is a proposal, but there is no mention of it. The travel sector is abandoned. I'm really disappointed in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u11	Minister, for many sectors it is obviously a very difficult period, for two of them in particular, in particular the catering and events sector. Despite all the measures taken by this government, the hospitality industry is still very difficult to cope with. In the cultural and event sector, artists are very dependent on the assignments they receive and have been standing still for quite some time now. Sabam plays a role for both sectors. On the one hand int Unisono of the restaurants the copyright fee of the music that is played there. Currently, the catering industry pays for music that is no longer played. That's weird, isn't it? Sabam, on the other hand, must also pay the cultural sector. This is a very important task that must not be forgotten. From 4 May to 31 December 2020, Catering and Business could apply for a solidarity contribution of 1 month of copyright. That agreement was concluded with UNIZO, among others. But we can see in the meantime that the catering industry has been closed for many months. Then one month of solidarity contribution is very little to cover the whole period. Both sectors are currently in difficulty. That is why I have a number of questions, especially about Sabam. Would you insist on a temporary suspension of payment for hotels and restaurants at Sabam? The Walloon, Flemish and Brussels Catering Federations had discussed this some time ago. Are you aware of any appointments made there? Will you take another measure that goes beyond the solidarity contribution of one month, or insist on it? Of course, it is obvious that, if such a mechanism is introduced, the transfer of rights to the authors themselves will always be taken into account. We cannot support one sector at the expense of another. That is why I think it is important to hear your opinion on this. In addition to the suspension of payment for the catering industry itself, the income for the musicians should also be looked at. There is still little perspective for them at the moment. For example, it could be a nice solidarity action to play more Belgian music on our radio stations. In total, music is played on our radio stations for an equivalent of 15 million in copyright. When 20 percent of Belgian music is played globally, 3 million euros goes back to our Belgian musicians, while the rest flows abroad. If in these exceptional times the Belgian music section could be increased by 10%, this will generate a lot of new revenue for our own Belgian musicians, without new budget or new rules. I was wondering if you would discuss this with the sector or with your partners from the Flemish and Walloon governments and see if such an initiative would be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u12	Mrs Leroy is currently chairman of the Social Affairs Committee and has been apologized. Her question No. 55012508C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u13	Minister, I had submitted this question to your colleague, Mr Clarinval, because in the past he has dealt with a number of matters relating to the catering industry. He referred me to you as a competent minister. The reason for this question, as has just been outlined, is that Sabam has only offered a one-month discount on the year-forfait and that a lot of catering entrepreneurs think - rightly - that this is inadequate. The catering companies had to close their doors for many months last year, and that will also be the case this year. I am very sorry that before New Year the federations had to call on the catering companies to cancel the contracts at Unisono to ensure that they were no longer liable for this contribution at the beginning of this year. Last year, we adopted a resolution in this Parliament asking the government, among other things, to review these annual fees together with the copyright companies and to see whether they can be adjusted for the period of closure of the companies concerned. That is quite different from the one month that is being offered. I would like to hear from you the extent to which you have entered into dialogue with Unisono and the various stakeholders to see what can happen in this respect. What are the results of that? How big will the compensation from the government ultimately be if it had to be paid for anyway? What other initiatives have you taken as a minister in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u14	Are there any colleagues who would like to speak in this debate? [[No.]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u15	I thank honourable Members for their questions. As I have already indicated in response to a previous question, on 3 December my firm met with representatives of the copyright management companies concerned, namely Sabam, Simim and PlayRight. The Sabam represents authors and publishers, the Simim represents producers, and PlayRight represents performers. The aim of this meeting was, of course, to find a solution to the problem of the payment of copyright and related rights by the horeca sector during the confinement period. Unfortunately, these representatives informed us that, in their view, there was no legal basis for justifying a reduction in their common invoices. Indeed, the Simim and PlayRight regulations as well as the Sabam annual contracts have the effect that the payments are not directly proportional to the number of days of actual opening. On the other hand, it is very difficult for these associations to make a commercial gesture at a time when they are faced with very strong reductions in their collections. They are also under pressure from their right holders, authors, artists, producers who are also their shareholders for future losses in the area of copyright, among others, on top of the loss of other revenues. As far as annual contracts are concerned, some associations do not recommend the renewal of annual contracts. Furthermore, such terminations raise new questions about the conditions that will have to apply when normal activity can resume and when the businesses concerned wish to use and broadcast music again. We will, of course, take a very close look at the relevant contractual and regulatory rules, so that the application of these rules can lead to fair solutions for all parties. Sabam, Simim and PlayRight also reported on 3 December that they had taken various measures in favour of users. Many of you recalled the scope of the bill, namely, the postponement of the sending of invoices during closing periods, the extension of payment deadlines, the removal of reminder fees or the waiver of certain increases and one month's contribution for the Sabam component of the joint Unisono invoice. Simim and PlayRight, on the other hand, refused, as you know, to give up a month's contribution. I am also informed that discussions are under way between the Sabam and the representatives of the various sectors, in particular the Horeca, with a view to obtaining an additional gesture in the context of the second period of confinement and closure. On 21 January, the Sabam informed us that meeting dates had been set at the SNI, UNEB and the Horeca Federation. The Sabam also informed us that it is in discussion with horeca Vlaanderen in particular and with Unizo. The discussions are of course more difficult than in the first confinement. It's a state of affairs. The situation on both sides around the table has worsened in the meantime, but I remain optimistic about the outcome of this process. The interlocutors around the table are aware of the difficulties of the different parties. As regards the outcome and follow-up to the meeting on 3 December, I found that the position of the three companies concerned had not changed as a result of that meeting. As I have indicated, discussions between Unisono and the federations are continuing on possible further adjustments for the year 2021. My firm is in close contact with Unisono on this matter. I believe that a follow-up meeting will be necessary to take stock of developments since the last meeting in December and of the measures that could be adopted in the near future. Although various public aid measures concerning certain payments to Unisono are under discussion, I am not in a position to announce any additional measures to date, in addition to those already adopted. If the state took over one to three months of the Unisono contribution from the Horeca, beauty salons, hairdressers, and fitness rooms, this would represent a budget of between €6.2 million and €18.6 million. These elements are currently the subject of discussion within the government on all the complementary assistance measures needed for the various sectors. The postponement of invoices during the periods during which institutions were closed is part of the measures taken by Unisono. However, in the week of January 11, 2021, invoices were sent to closed institutions. This issue was also raised in a press release by representatives of the beauty salons, including the SNI and UNEB, and in television newspapers on 16 January. Response was given by Sabam's spokesman, who apologized for an error in the fact that a computer filter had not worked, resulting in invoices being sent during that period, contrary to the previous commitment. My firm was later informed in more detail of the reasons for this shipment. In fact, the problem arose from the fact that some hairdressing and beauty salons were not classified in the tariff reserved for these establishments. This involved about 100 cases. The trade fairs concerned of course have an additional payment period of three months. A case-by-case approach was adopted. As some have suggested in the questions, I think we should be concerned about the problems the artists face. That is true in this context, and it is true in general. They are known to have been affected by a sharp decline in perceptions of copyright and related rights in 2020. This loss of profits is in addition to other losses, notably related to the cessation of all live performances. Some copyright societies have taken internal measures to mitigate the impact on rights holders, for example by reducing operating costs, reducing debt to rightholders, reducing reserves and provisions, accelerating distributions, and creating emergency funds for artists. However, collective societies cannot distribute revenues that they have not received. I have noted the request made by some of you to set aside budgets to compensate for loss of revenue related to copyright and related rights as well as various public aid measures. These issues are currently under discussion within the government and so I am not yet in a position to announce the outcome of these consultations. I believe that the diffusion of the national repertoire should be encouraged. As Mrs Depraetere points out, this is a competence of the Communities, which actually exercise this competence, in particular by decree and by means of management contracts with public service broadcasters. I am therefore sceptical about the added value of my intervention in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for the efforts you have already made on this dossier. However, I think it is a punishment to be told that there is no legal basis. Of course, that may be the case, but we all feel that it is rather unfair that the hospitality business, which has been closed for so long, should continue to pay most of that contribution. The one sector that is already struggling is so responsible for another sector that is also having a difficult time. With all understanding, but that can't be the intention. In the meantime, there are indeed calls for annual contracts not to be renewed. That's not good for anyone. It is good that you will discuss this in the government and that a solution is being worked out, but there may also be a little more effort and a little more commitment from Sabam/Unisono himself. I know it is not obvious, because Sabam himself has less income, but there are certainly creative solutions to find income elsewhere than in the catering and other sectors you mentioned. It must be absolutely possible in this way to find some extra income instead of looking for it in the sectors that are already struggling today. However, it is good to hear that this is still being discussed within the majority. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u17	Mr Minister, to be honest, I have the same feeling as Mr Depraetere: I also think that it is very unfair that people who are obliged to close their cases should still have to pay for music that has not been played. Even if there is no legal basis in these contracts to do otherwise, this is a form of force majeure, and we must be able to find creative solutions to this. I have the impression that we are all continuing to rattle on the ground and that the problem is getting worse. I hope that there will soon be a breakthrough and that you, Minister, will bring everyone around the table if they do not get out and insist on a solution. After all, the water is already on the lips of many people, so this must be possible in the very short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u18	Minister, I understand that you are currently consulting with the sectors and within the government, but I am not really reassured after hearing your reply. As my fellow Members have already said, there is a great injustice today. I fully understand the artists who are having a hard time today, but music that has not been played is not played and should not be paid for. Horeca entrepreneurs must do everything they can to avoid and freeze as much as possible, and it is particularly bad if they have to continue to pay for this. We have to avoid all the useless costs to give them as much oxygen as possible. Even if there is little legal basis for doing something, you must do so quickly within the government. Something must be done because it is not explained to the outside world, it simply cannot be explained.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u19	Minister, I agree with the previous speakers because this is really very unfair. I also think I know that a large part of SABAM's income is stuck with the organisation. In my opinion, the government must intervene because this is unjust.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u20	Minister, my two questions are grouped into one to save time. Since mid-November, a team from the Public Health FPS has been monitoring compliance with anti-coronavirus measures (physical distantiation, obligation to wear a mouth mask, prohibition on the sale of alcohol between 20:00 and 5:00 in the morning, etc.).). At the same time, controls are carried out by other government departments and by the police. On Monday, November 30, the Public Health FPS reported that about a fifth (22%) of the small businesses that remained open during the target period – such as newspaper merchants, night stores, small day stores, gas stations and alcohol distributors – were in "major violation" of measures to combat the spread of coronavirus. Other outlets for essential products, such as supermarkets, have since also been controlled. First of all, Minister, what figures do you have regarding the controls carried out by your inspection services? What comments can you make to us? Secondly, has there been any change since the control of other outlets such as supermarkets? Have your services seen any evolution? Finally, is coordination between the inspection services of the various ministries organized?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u21	Thank you, Mr. Member, for your question. As I have already had the opportunity to reply to this on several occasions, this was the case in the Social Affairs Committee yesterday, you know that we have mobilised all the inspection services, all the administrations involved, to ensure that the measures to combat covid-19 are respected. As you pointed out, thousands of inspections have been carried out by the various inspection services concerning social and physical distancing measures, the presence of hydro-alcoholic gel, the wearing of the mask, etc. The economic inspectorate has been specifically responsible for monitoring compliance with new measures since 1 December. These include the prohibition of door-to-door access and the provision of goods at home, the closure to the public of service providers in so-called contact occupations or the prohibition of the provision of services at home which do not guarantee social distancing. In this context, 1 354 specific controls have been carried out to date and, I can assure you, the economic inspectorate has informed us that in the vast majority of cases, the persons and undertakings inspected complied with all these specific measures. The economic inspectorate did not conduct any investigation into the sale of non-essential goods on the basis of the ministerial decree of 28 October 2020 because at the time it was not competent, having no legal basis. This was subsequently corrected. The legal basis was entrusted to him. You also know that the decisions of the concertation committee have changed, in particular by allowing the reopening of so-called non-essential businesses. This control is therefore no longer appropriate today, fortunately. As I said a few moments ago, the economic inspection is in constant contact with the other competent inspection services in order to coordinate the controls carried out in the field. For example, there are regular consultations with the police services or with the public health FPS, particularly in the context of a specific task force. The will was, as I said at the start of my response, to mobilise all inspection services to really have a strike force on the ground to ensure that the various measures imposed or concerning prohibitions were complied with as widely as possible. If you wish, I can give you, as I did yesterday in committee, a picture of all the checks carried out in the field, inspection service by inspection service, as well as the various infringements found and the number of minutes or warnings drawn up by these inspection services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answer. I believe that it was indeed essential to mobilise all inspection services to ensure compliance. We know that these rules are difficult, especially for the economic sector; but the proper application of these rules may also allow this sector which is suffering to reopen more quickly. When we make rules, however difficult they may be, we must be able to ensure that everyone can respect them, so that we all hope to be able to reopen as soon as possible. I understand the tasks assigned to the economic inspection. I take note of the figure you have given: 1,354 controls; in the vast majority of cases – and I think this is a way to reassure us about the measures – the economic inspection says that the measures were complied with. I'll stay on that positive note. I believe that these controls must continue to take place as long as health measures impose sometimes complicated rules. I thank you for the energy with which you take this mission to heart, and I am pleased to see that there is very good coordination between the services to ensure that these measures are properly implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u23	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere, my services received more than 6,000 notifications for fraudulent webshops, fake text messages and fake e-mails through the hotline in 2016. From 2017 to 2019, i.e. for three years, they received more than 35,000 notifications. In the year 2020, my administration received almost 22,000 notifications. This increase is due to the global covid pandemic that has led citizens to do many of their activities, such as purchase of products, online now. This does not seem to have escaped swindlers either, given that all the fraud phenomena have increased considerably since the covid pandemic. The Economic Inspectorate does not have specific data from consumer reports on the protection of their data by Internet giants. In general, by 2020, my services received more than 2,000 notifications related to the misuse of personal data. When consumers submit a notification via the reporting point about the potentially careless processing of their personal data, they will be referred by my services to the competent government organisation, the Data Protection Authority. When a citizen submits a report relating to facts falling within the competence of my services, they will carry out a legal analysis. When useful data, such as telephone numbers, appear, they will try to identify those responsible, such as those responsible for these telephone numbers. They shall, where appropriate, carry out an investigation and, where appropriate, forward the file to the competent authority. The FPS Economy also focuses on consumer awareness and prevention, together with other public services active in this area, such as the Centre for Cyber Security Belgium. The FPS Economy warns against phishing and internet fraud through its website, social media channels and press releases.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u24	Minister, it is a very remarkable increase. Consumers have found their way to the webshops, but the fraudsters obviously have, very quickly and very massively. It is remarkable how quickly they can use or abuse the covid pandemic to their own advantage. We should be concerned about this anyway, but I am particularly concerned about the huge amount of data that large web shops such as Zalando and bol.com possess and the danger that lies in it. If fraudsters are able to access these data, it will create a lot of opportunities for them. My question cited the example of the massive fraudulent texts that bpost would have supposedly sent. That danger also lies with a number of those webshops. Hopefully that will be given extra attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u25	Minister, the health crisis is disrupting our economy and we are only beginning to understand some of its more structural consequences, while others have probably not yet fully manifested themselves. More and more observers are concerned, for example, about the impact the pandemic will have on services, fearing a wave of relocations that will affect them in the coming years. In addition to the fact that they are not sensitive to commercial protectionism or to the cost of transport, containment will have led to an unprecedented learning effect on the use of digital technologies among players in these sectors, as well as among consumers. This would amplify a movement already started before. In December 2019, the WTO called services "new drivers of globalisation". It is true that the growth of these activities is sustained. Between 2005 and 2017, the value of trade in this sector increased at an annual rate of 5.4%. While this sector of the economy weighed only 9% of world trade in 1970, it now accounts for 20%. Outsourced and/or digitized, they are more easily outsourced and the generalization of telework could accelerate this trend. When it is known that, according to OECD figures, 40% of industrial jobs are service jobs and that in 2015, the proportion of those jobs that could be relocated was 18%, the potential for harm is better understood. That is why, Minister, I would like to know how you analyse this issue. How do you plan to prepare and anticipate our economy in the face of this challenge? What are the possible European answers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u26	Mr President, honourable Member, as you have pointed out, in recent years we have identified two major trends in the economic sphere: globalisation, but also the tertialisation of the economy. This has led to a sharp increase in international trade in services. Results: Western European countries in particular are facing increasing foreign competition in the services sector. However, Belgian exports of services increased by 4.9% per year between 2010 and 2019. However, it must be admitted that this increase has slowed somewhat since 2015. Moreover, the slowdown in the growth of services exports is more significant in Belgium than in France and than in Germany, but less important than in the Netherlands. In my view, the recovery plan will provide a number of avenues for addressing the challenge of potential relocation of these services. Moreover, as you mentioned, the crisis of the covid-19 can also be seen as a risk, but also an opportunity for our country in this area. The need for rapid and in-depth implementation of digital technologies, particularly in the context of teleworking, may have prompted Belgian companies as well as workers to quickly introduce important innovations. The OECD calculations already show that our country is one of the least affected by its large teleworking capacity. You know that, unlike other countries in particular neighbouring countries, the latter has been implemented very quickly and in a relatively efficient way. Furthermore, like the authorities in our country, as you know, the European Commission, aware of the need for a common political strategy to address this problem, is seeking strategic autonomy in the main value chains. This is an important part of the European reform agenda, which focuses on sustainability and digitisation. Belgium fully supports this value chain approach, as it takes more account of the importance of the added value created by the service sector in industry. Finally, this year, the European Commission has given new impetus to internal market policy, particularly in the area of services, with greater emphasis on removing obstacles to the internal market and applying the rules governing it. On 16 June the Commission launched an in-depth review of the European Union's trade policy. Its objective is to reach a consensus on the direction to be taken in the medium term to meet the new global challenges, while drawing the necessary lessons from the coronavirus crisis. A Commission communication is announced at the beginning of this year. It should contain tangible proposals to address these issues. Of course, Belgium is actively involved in this ongoing reflection exercise. The concerns you have expressed are, of course, shared by the federal government and, in particular, by myself, in my capacity as Minister of Labour and the Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answer. I had no doubt that you shared the concern that I tried to express this morning. In my view, we are dealing with a structural phenomenon, with a background blade that is likely to increase through the consequences of the crisis. We must, of course, remain extremely attentive. We remember the ravages that unregulated globalization has caused our economy. It was even a particularly scathing ravage for our industrial fabric. The response given by the European Commission in the early 2000s was that of the Lisbon Strategy, which focused on innovation and thus on services. Today, we see that this phenomenon of unregulated globalisation could attack them and thus attack the fact that it remains at the heart of the European economy. The time I have left will allow me to illustrate my point with two examples. Of the 1,223 jobs Nokia wants to eliminate in France, 20% are engineering jobs in research and development. These jobs would go to Poland or India. In June, Technicolor announced its intention to remove 110 jobs in one of its R&D centres. The idea is to relocate them to India. A study published at the end of September by Western Union predicts that the value of international trade in services will increase by more or less one third by 2025. The largest increases are in business services and information technology. I will close by quoting a sentence from the Director General of the WTO in 2019: "Services are often neglected in discussions on world trade, yet they represent the majority of trade in many developed countries. They are growing rapidly in emerging economies." So, vigilance, vigilance, vigilance! And here I am speaking on my own behalf and on behalf of my group and not the Director-General of the WTO.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u28	Minister, I had initially sent this question to the Minister of Finance. I can ask you as well, but some questions have an angle of attack more in connection with Finance. As you may have read, Trend-Tendances magazine has produced a very interesting and challenging dossier last December on the One Coin, a cryptocurrency that allows for a significant return and, therefore, potential easy gains. Boosted by the success of Bitcoin and all these increasingly numerous cryptocurrency today, the One Coin has already claimed hundreds of thousands of victims worldwide and resulted in losses of billions of euros. In Belgium, too, many people have fallen into the scam by investing in this virtual currency. The loss of money of the Belgian victims of this scam is estimated at €7 million. According to Trend magazine, most of these people have given their trust to the main Belgian cryptocurrency dealer: Laurent Louis, former Member of Parliament, at the heart of the scandal. The promoters of the One Coin insist on its value, having increased from 0.5 euros in early 2015 to 42 euros today, but the problem lies in the impossibility of exchanging it for its value in traditional currency, euros or dollars for example. The One Coin is in fact absent from the sites allowing this operation. The only solution, in Belgium, to recover euros is therefore to address Laurent Louis. It is also based on a pyramid organization: each seller buys packages that he can resell, creating a commission. And the system is working well: the investigation reveals that between January and June 2016, more than EUR 1.7 million was placed by Belgian investors in the One Coin. The FSMA and the SPF Economy received about 20 complaints. In 2017, a judicial investigation was opened by the Charleroi Public Prosecutor's Office following a complaint filed by a Belgian victim, directly targeting the retailer in Belgium, Laurent Louis. Minister, my questions were about the FSMA's response to this issue, which clearly resembles a large-scale scam. What legislative initiatives could we take to protect citizens from such toxic financial products? Here we're talking about the One Coin, but we could talk about other cryptocurrencies that facilitate big scams. Is it planned to communicate, via the FSMA or the SPF Economy, on the dangers of these financial products, which probably too many of our citizens do not know, seeing it as a potential economic gain in the short term? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u29	Mr President, thank you for your question, which I am happy to answer even if it was not addressed directly to me. Before I enter the body of my reply, I would like to point out that the article to which you referred was corrected by the journalist who wrote it on the Trends Trends Trends website on 15 December 2020. The corrigendum mentions that the judicial authorities are indeed competent when there are indications of such fraud. In such cases, the FSMA, as you know, always forwards the file to the prosecutor's office. In the One Coin file, FSMA also provided the prosecution with all the reports received. As you mentioned, in February 2020, she also sent a letter containing a summary of all the history in this file, including all the reports received since the beginning. On July 8, 2016, the FSMA issued a warning to inform consumers that One Coin was not recognized or authorized, and to report the dangers of this cryptocurrency. In this warning, it also advised consumers not to invest in OneCoins. This warning is still online today. With regard to legislative initiatives, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the FSMA banned the marketing of financial products to non-professional customers whose return depended directly or indirectly on a virtual currency as early as 2014; this initiative corresponds to the measures that Member States can now take, in accordance with European law. As regards regulation at European level, the scope of the European Directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing has been extended to include providers of virtual currency exchange services and legal currencies, and providers of retention portfolio services. Moreover, as you may know, the European Commission recently published a proposal for a regulation on cryptocurrency markets and crypto-active markets. This proposal introduces a regime for public offers of different types of crypto-actives and crypto-active services. This proposal aims, among other things, to protect consumers by laying down rules similar to those applicable to offers or services linked to financial instruments. In addition to a coherent legal framework, awareness-raising is of course essential in the fight against cryptocurrency fraud. The National Bank of Belgium, the FSMA and the SPF Economy also inform the public several times a year about the risks involved in the use of such cryptocurrency. The National Bank of Belgium and the FSMA have issued common warnings in order to draw consumer attention to the risks associated with virtual currencies. The SPF Economy warned against cryptocurrency fraud via various press releases, via information campaigns as well as on the tropbeaupouretrevre.be website. It has also done so on the various social networks. Of course, my services are actively working with the police services to address the problem, report it and inform the police services or the prosecution of potential offences or frauds. And of course we will continue these practices and efforts to combat such fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u30	Thank you to the Minister for his comprehensive response. We see that various actions are being carried out, and we must of course continue to encourage them, both at European and Belgian level. As you have pointed out, there are really two important areas, namely communication and pedagogy towards our fellow citizens. The name of the site – "Too beautiful to be true" – is quite appropriate. It is about miracle formulas of gains in the very short term, which can obviously deceive our fellow citizens. In addition, all these cryptocurrencies all too often contribute to financing illegal activities such as money laundering. We must therefore redouble our vigilance and intensify our political actions at Belgian and European level in order to counter this phenomenon, which, as you know, is only gaining importance. Thank you for your attention in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u31	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, my administration is currently implementing this project. To this end, it shall collect all necessary information and carry out certain analyses which are essential for the preparation of the project. In the next phase, consultations will be held with the stakeholders concerned. That consultation will take place as soon as possible. We recognise the importance of stakeholder involvement, so this consultation will take place with certainty. The entry into force of the Law of 8 November 2020 introducing provisions on basic banking services for enterprises in Book VII of the Economic Law Code is foreseen on 1 May 2021. The intention is to take the implementing decisions by that date so that the law has its full effect. It is correct that a company in this situation does not have many possibilities today. An undertaking whose account is closed currently has the opportunity to initiate legal proceedings. It is then up to the sovereign assessment of the courts and courts to assess the decision of the credit institution to close the account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u32	Mr President, Minister, I look forward to 1 May 2021. It would be a very nice birthday present for me, because I have a birthday on May 2nd. I hope you can keep your word.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u33	Mrs Muylle and Mrs Van Bossuyt, thank you for your questions. I'm aware of this file. In the case of damage to dwellings due to extreme drought, the guarantee may be invoked only if there is a movement of an important mass of the soil layer which destroys or damages goods during the shrinking and spreading of land. The problem is therefore complex, given the technicality involved. There has already been contact on this issue between my cabinet and Minister Demir's cabinet, as well as with the insurance sector. I will set up a working group to discuss all this. The competent federal and regional cabinets, as well as the insurance sector, will be invited.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u34	Minister, I think it is a good sign that you are aware and that you have taken an initiative. These people are very badly affected and do not know where to go. The damage to the homes is immense. In this sense, it is good that a working group is to be set up and I hope that solutions will be found. We will certainly continue to ask you about the results of that working group. Mr President, as far as my next question is concerned, I would like to refer to my text, as I am expected to make a statement in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I did not receive an answer to my questions about the number of damages and the number of disputes. It would be good if you could give me the figures in that regard. I think it was quite clear that a number of amendments were tabled when that law was adopted. It is clear from the preparatory work that the amendment adopted at the time was intended to cover those soil degradations, which are the result of a slow and invisible process, such as drought, by natural disasters insurance. It is quite clear that a very wide coverage was one of the objectives of the law. In view of all these issues, we have tabled a proposal of interpretative law, which was considered in plenary last week. We therefore have a constructive proposal in hand, and you know that we are constructive, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to meet and make it clear that it was indeed the intention of the law that the damage caused by drought should be covered by insurers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u36	Mr President, I am aware of the meeting of the Committee on Animal Welfare of 13 January 2021 in the Flemish Parliament and of the statements by Flemish Minister of Animal Welfare Ben Weyts on the destruction of the Flemish decree on the prohibition of fireworks, but the Minister himself has not contacted me. In the course of this year, my administration will take a federal initiative to reduce the noise nuisance associated with the firing of fireworks. There will be a wide consultation of the parties concerned and the Regions will also be consulted. At the moment, I cannot comment further. Consultations must take place before a decision can be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u37	Mr President, Minister, the federal government then joined the procedure because we were not against the content of the Flemish decree, but because there was an excess of competence and because the FPS Economy, certainly the Quality & Security Service, must be able to do its job. Putting the ball in the federal camp now doesn't make any sense either. I think we share the common objective, so let us work together to find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u38	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I am pleased to hear that you are already taking an initiative. I believe that inspiration can certainly be found for this in the Flemish decree. I particularly hope that this problem can be resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u39	Mr President, Minister, I have no reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic353x.u40	Mr President, Minister, I can only hope that this problem will be taken seriously. You have taken note of a debate in the Flemish Parliament, but I believe that, as I have asked in my questions, a number of things are necessary. For example, a plan should be considered to have certain stocks purchased by the government and destroyed in a controlled manner. I do not think you have addressed the issue in depth and will come back to it later.
