ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic630x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my question concerns the Pegasus case. On Sunday, 18 July, a consortium of journalists revealed that political figures, journalists, opponents, civil society actors had been spied on all over the world thanks to a smartphone hacking software called Pegasus. Developed by the Israeli company NSO, this software is indeed capable of enabling remote monitoring. This Israeli company would have about 40 client states for its spy software. As part of the survey of data collected by the consortium of journalists, eleven states (through their government or secret services) were identified, including Morocco, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Togo, Rwanda and the United Arab Emirates. The investigation revealed a list of 50,000 spy numbers, that is, 50,000 potential spy victims, including at least 600 politicians. Mr Secretary of State, are Belgian figures on this list? If so, which ones? Are Belgian politicians involved? Does Belgium have tools to protect its politicians from such espionage? Does the government plan to strengthen the security of federal ministers' smartphones in order to better protect their privacy and ensure the security of our country? What about other politicians and journalists or human rights activists?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic630x.u2	Member, thank you for your question. The confidentiality of private telephone or electronic communications is, of course, one of the foundations of respect for the right to privacy and the protection of personal data. It is also a legal requirement. According to the information available to me on the subject, a spy software would indeed have been able to listen to the conversations of several personalities around the world. As my colleague, the Minister of Justice, in Belgium, pointed out, the Sûreté de l'Etat is trying to avoid as much as possible the threat of espionage by foreign or other powers, through its investigations and the exchange of information with national and foreign partner services. As far as the Belgian personalities concerned are concerned, I do not have a list. For the rest, I would refer you to the reply that my colleague the Minister of Justice gave on 22 October, as well as to the Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic630x.u3	Mr. Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. In fact, I asked you the question because it concerns the whole government: both the foreign policy and the security, the interior, the secret services... It is the whole government, National Defence, that is concerned. But you are the person in charge of the digitalization and digitalization of services. That's why the question is at your house. I'm actually going to see the answers in your colleagues. But I'm still a little hungry about the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic630x.u4	Question No 55021767C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question.
