ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u2	I note that there are 11 questions on the subject. If the subject is of some importance, I propose that each Minister be given five minutes' speaking time. We will try to stay within that limited time. May I ask you to take this into account, please?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u3	Prime Minister, if I learned one thing last year, during that hellish year as Minister of Work, it is that great statements made in the outside world rarely lead to great results in rooms. However, I note that some of the chairmen of majority parties, as well as members of your government, have in recent days felt that they should make statements through social media and the press on matters that should actually be discussed with you around the table. We are very sorry about that. After all, agreements have been made with you at the table, with a view to consultation with the social partners. The first was the decoupling of the welfare envelope and an agreement was reached on 19 April. Secondly, there was a framework on the table: a wage margin of 0.4%, with room to agree a higher margin for sectors where things are going well, by 1 May. That was the deal at your table. There is no agreement yet, but it is not yet 1 May. However, some feel it is necessary to make statements about this, such as about Deborah, who, if her salary is increased by 0.4%, should not pay dividends in that company. But it is forgotten that the same Article 14 does not increase the amount of pension savings as Deborah does, just like the benefits and that rents are also linked to them. That is not our position. Let us not forget that we are experiencing a major economic crisis. Seventy percent of our economy is bleeding, thousands of jobs are under threat, the first restructurings have already been announced and yet people do not see that reality. For us, it is clear: we are going for the maintenance of jobs, first and foremost through strong social dialogue, and let us give that consultation every opportunity. The elements are on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u4	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister of Work, people who held our country during the worst crisis since the Second World War deserve more than 10 euros gross per month. There's still three days left. We hope that the social dialogue will still succeed, and we offer you all our support in demining the situation. For us, 0.4% of storage is the minimum and in sectors that have been well-farmed, more storage needs to be given, because that can be done there. There is also a need to increase the level of income for people on very low wages. These include order pickers, who work day and night, and cashiers in the supermarkets. They have continued to work with danger to their own health. They barely have anything left of a storage capacity of 0.4%. Remove the increase in the minimum wage from the wage standard. There are instruments for this too. We have been at an impasse for more than six months, while there is still so much work to be done. Over the past three years, the number of burn-outs in our country has increased by 160 %. There is the end-of-life debate where we are looking at how to ensure that workers keep up until the end of their careers. On the eve of 1 May, we call for the debate to begin on a large group of workers in our labour market, namely the 30% of precarious workers who deserve better social protection. The corona crisis made it clear that too many people are still slipping through the loopholes of our social safety net, they are people who work but are not sufficiently protected. Mr Prime Minister, Minister, in the light of all the other substantive work on the table, I would like to ask you what solution you see in order to get out of the impasse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u5	Gentlemen, the negotiations on the Ipa are blocked. That is also logical, because the working class of our country cannot accept that, although the BEL20 companies have paid EUR 6 billion in dividends, they would only receive an increase of 0.4%. We can't do that in our country. Mr Prime Minister, you may have Mr Lachaert on the phone. Tell him because of me I don't agree with him. I don't agree anymore when he says that 0.4% is enough. That's not enough. Liberals are always talking about freedom, freedom, freedom, but when it comes to the negotiations on wages, freedom is no longer an issue. No, that is the law of 1996. That must change, Minister. Then yesterday I hear Conner Rousseau, the President of Vooruit on television, saying that no dividends should be paid and that Article 14 should be applied. Ladies and gentlemen, that is an excellent proposal. For the first time since the 25th anniversary of Article 14, the article is invoked not to pay dividends. I think that is a positive fact. What changed at 25 years? That is, of course, the social struggle and the rise of the PVDA in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. The left finally gets colour again, but that's not enough, because the Deborahs of the country, the cashiers of the country, want more than 0.4%. That is the decision to be taken. It is therefore necessary to amend the 1996 Law. That is why I put a proposal on the table with Marc Goblet, so that the wage standard is no longer mandatory, but becomes indicative. That is the solution to restore freedom to the negotiations. Accept that proposal in committee next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u6	Madam President, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, the message I intend to send today is a message to a certain great employer. What a contempt! What an indecency! What contempt and indecency for millions of workers who have continuously devoted their labour force, whether they are workers, employees or managers, during this health crisis which has put the whole country to the test, but which has seen them continue with self-denial to turn our economy in spite of the difficulties. Even though, since 1996, the distribution of dividends and profits has steadily increased in the head of a number of large shareholders and bosses, today they are refusing any significant increase in wages, wanting to limit it to 0.4%. But what an indecency! The workers in Belgium deserve better. They deserve pay justice, they deserve justice! They deserve recognition, not such contempt. So, since some people are sending messages to us from the employer's side, telling us that we must apply the law and nothing but the law, so let us apply the law, and more specifically section 14 of that law, which provides that we can also moderate the distribution of dividends and bonuses. Don't you want to raise wages? So, you must also not have an increase in bonuses and dividends! That is our message to you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u7	Madam President, Prime Minister, the past year has been a very difficult year for many people: for workers who have sometimes continued to work in very difficult conditions, for entrepreneurs who sometimes saw their life's work lost, but also for students who could count on less income because their weekend job or student job could not continue. This has led to a two-speed economy. The large group of people who have had a hard time is also faced with a number of companies that have done very well and have made bizarre profits. Think of supermarkets, the pharmaceutical industry and the parcel companies. Those are companies that have been good farmers for the past year, which we have all seen. They have been well served by the whole situation we are now in, but just as well by the many workers who have worked hard for it. Mr Minister, can you explain to me why the profits of all this risky work would only go to the shareholders and not to the people who have kept our country right over the past year? I am talking about the workers on whom we have all been very dependent over the past few years. I can't explain that to people. I can see that some have less difficulty with that. However, I do not get that explained in that way. Mr. Secretary, each part is not too much. With applause, of course, people don't buy anything. Justice is getting everyone to share in the profits. That's justness. Wage negotiations are on the fritz. You're making an ultimate attempt to do something about that. We must, of course, give the consultation every opportunity. However, that only works if all positions are clear and everyone puts their cards on the table. The position of us Socialists is clear. It is clear and cannot be ignored. However, I would like everyone to put their cards on the table so that things can move forward again in the interests of everyone. Minister, I have only one question for you. What will you do to get the consultation going again and to make sure that everyone sits at the table again?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u8	Prime Minister, Minister, last week there was cautious optimism about social dialogue. At that time, the social partners had reached an agreement on the distribution of wealth. However, since the beginning of this week, the consultation has been in a complete mess. The unions left the negotiations on wages. It is the right of the organisations to do so, but it is also our job to remind them of the framework in which the wage negotiations are to take place, namely the government agreement and the 1996 law. The 1996 law is important to ensure that we do not lose ground with our neighbouring countries, that we can continue to compete vigorously and that our companies can continue to recruit people, even after the difficult corona crisis. Respecting the wage bill means keeping the jobs with us and avoiding redundancies in export-oriented sectors or companies that are having a very difficult time, such as the catering industry. The companies that have been blocking during the corona crisis can safely make additional efforts through a premium system, but there are also a lot of companies that absolutely cannot do that, and it would be irresponsible to allow a structural wage increase of more than 0.4%. Of course, we want people to have more net left. That is the position of our party, and it will remain so. Work must be rewarded. In sectors that did well, extras are absolutely possible. In the supermarkets, for example, during the first corona wave, employees received a one-off premium and additional leave days. In the autumn they also concluded an additional agreement on a premium of 500 euros for each employee. Prime Minister, Minister, we must take everything out of the box in order to seek an agreement. What will the government do to get the social partners back to the negotiating table and ensure that the law is respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u9	Gentlemen ministers, not so long ago, several members of your government adorned their palms with 4 dots on the occasion of the Week Against Bullying. The alcohol gel we frequently use today apparently cleaned those hands very thoroughly. In the run-up to 1 May, Liberals and Socialists are getting each other's blood from under their fingernails. In his Don Corleone style, one president threatens the other president. Blackmail may help in The Godfather, but in real life it often doesn't lead to chords. The bickering cabinet is completely back with this. After the distribution of the welfare envelope for the increase of benefits, this dossier reveals the true contradictions within purple-green. A wage increase of 0.4% is, of course, not an increase, especially for the large group of workers who work for the lowest wages. That is a pubic patch, perhaps the proverbial 2 pints Cara Pils, whether or not with the logo of Vooruit. However, it must be about an extra shopping cart or about absorbing the rising energy bill, which is much heavier for the lowest wages. The net wage should be increased by reducing the burden and charges on workers or by increasing the tax-free component in the personal tax. This leads to higher net wages, which makes work pay again, even in the lowest pay grade. It also provides a less greasy state. Gentlemen, what is your response to the threat from your coalition? What will you do to restore the trust of domestic and foreign investors? Above all, I would like to know what you will do to ensure that the worker, the hardworking worker or servant, is left with more at the end of the month.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u10	Madam President, Prime Minister, are we here in the Soviet Union? Your Minister tweets that no dividends will be paid if no wage agreement is reached. Are we here in communism, where the patronage is set against the proletariat, where the patronage is blackmailed? Perhaps you could tell your fellow Minister that before dividends are paid, the State has already raised 55%. Mr Hedebouw, that also gives you an economic lesson. Forty percent of the population owns shares and needs dividends to make ends meet. The pension funds live on dividends, the companies also. Mr Minister, if you want to drive the companies away, then you really shouldn't pay dividends anymore. Mr Hedebouw, dividends are not all paid out by companies like Colruyt. It is often people with a small company, an bvba'tje, who need dividends to make ends meet. Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to highlight the 1996 law. The title of this law is the law on employment promotion and preventive safeguarding of competitiveness. Well, today's competitiveness, you should know this better than I do about the pay handicap. In the private sector, our wage handicap is currently 11% compared to the Netherlands, France and Germany. According to labour economist Stijn Baert, wages, in particular hourly wages, increased by 7.9 % in 2020. Why don't you stop this hypocrisy here? It is not about 0.4%, but it is about 3.2%, because we are one of the only states in Europe that still apply the index, together with Malta, Cyprus and Luxembourg. Including the index, this is a raise of 3.20 %. Prime Minister, say yes: are you a liberal or are you a communist?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u11	Prime Minister, when you hear your government's partners, there is a need to make a point. This is a finding of deep divisions within your government. Arms passes in the press, on networks, in a terribly binary speech: one side against the other. No, it is not acceptable that workers who have kept Belgium standing, in companies that are going particularly well, should not be able to take advantage of the benefits earned. No, it is also not acceptable not to take into account many companies in difficulty by pushing them even further into the crisis. Of course, it is much easier to do political strength with statements that smell on May 1. It is easier to put oil on the fire than oil on the wheels to find a balanced path and to bring the views of the social partners together. The work of the government, and particularly of the Minister of Employment, is not to make these strong statements, even around 1 May. The government's job is to be a mediator, but not just. It is also to be an actor in solutions, to create them and to put them on the table. Should be part of a balanced negotiation package, taking into account workers and employers. With all the aspects on career management, pensions, difficult jobs. But also on a tax reform to raise low wages without increasing the cost of labour for employers. Prime Minister, is your government going to play this role of acting as a solution to find the way to an interprofessional agreement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u12	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the day after tomorrow is therefore 1 May. It's Labour Day, Workers' Day. I take this opportunity to wish all workers and workers a happy party, even if this year the party has a bitter taste. An interprofessional agreement has not yet been reached. Bargaining on wages is broken because the wage increase is limited to 0.4%. Ecolo's asking for more. We expect much from the circulars provided for in the government agreement. More needs to be done for sectors that have gone through the crisis well, for workers, especially those who gave everything during the crisis, sometimes at the minimum wage. We owe it to them. It blocks wages but wages are a key element of social peace. They are part of the recognition given to workers. Social peace is at the heart of our model. It is desirable, necessary and essential. It is necessary and essential for the development of our economy. Today, I listen to what they say and I wonder. How can we guarantee this social peace when some feel blurred? How can we ensure balance when workers feel stuck, when they feel unfair? Social peace requires responsibility. It also requires justice. Your government is committed not to changing the 1996 law. Of which act! I would remind you that in this law there is also a section 14 that has never been activated and could be activated. This is an opportunity for the government to act on other types of income, in this case limiting dividends. It may be useful to remind some at these difficult times. Consider using this or other provision - be creative! - to achieve social peace with the objective of balance and, above all, social justice? Will you allow us to go further in areas where this is possible? What are you going to do, Prime Minister, to unblock the situation, to guarantee the chances of achieving social peace? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u13	Madam President, Prime Minister, it is a punishment for what the trade unions did two days ago. In the biggest economic crisis since the Second World War, they refused to conclude a wage agreement that would prevent our slamming economy from getting worse. A wage agreement designed to ensure that unemployment in our country does not pan out and that thousands of families are not put to dry. But I have to say, those union boys and girls are falling apart compared to the open war you've been conducting in your government since yesterday about that wage agreement. Welcome to circus Vivaldi! Of course, there's very little to make us happy about. The frivolity with which the socialists here go on the flat-populistic tour and play with the prosperity and jobs of tens of thousands of families is completely irresponsible and downright cynical. What should a small entrepreneur who takes risks every day with his own resources actually think of that? Now take the owner of the bicycle shop around the corner. He pays himself a modest wage so that he could pay his employee, Deborah, a wage. The little that remains, would he not be allowed to pay as a dividend? What a sad and painful spectacle this is, Minister. What are people supposed to think of that? People who are fighting for their cause today. People who are fighting for their jobs today. And you, you stand there and you look at it. Who is the real Prime Minister of this government? Will you finally put your government in order so that the prosperity in our country and the competitiveness of our companies are preserved? Or is this really the price the people will have to pay for your post as Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, these are important questions at a difficult time. We have quite rightly spoken very often in this House about people in care, our corona heroes. They have often given the best of themselves with danger to their own health. However, there are more corona heroes. It's not just about people in care. It's also about people in logistics, in supermarkets, about the mailman. Those are also those who have ensured that our society has been able to continue to function. It's about Deborah working in a grocery store, but it's also about Caroline having a shoe store and having seen that black snow in the past few months. It is also about a caterer who has had to put all his workers on technical unemployment because the water was so high on his lips. We will need everyone, employees, employers, self-employed, investors, if we can get out of this crisis. In addition to the medical side of the story, there is also the economic side. It won't be easy, but it's possible. If you see the light at the end of the tunnel, it's because, on the ground, people haven't wondered. They didn't create a conflict. They didn't turn their backs. They didn't oppose each other. They refused the confrontation. Together, they found solutions out of solidarity, being aware of their responsibility. If we want to find a solution in the coming months, knowing that the economic situation will not be easy, we will have to work together and not by opposing each other. In my view, that is the condition for finding a solution. We must not allow ourselves to be caught up in discord, but rather in search of what unites us. We must look for solutions. We will need everyone in the coming months, and we will not be able to do so by setting one against another. The same applies to the social partners, which we expect to be able to transcend themselves and find solutions at a difficult time. No one wins if there's no deal, no one wins. The greatest losers of them are those who have given the best of themselves in recent months, often in difficult circumstances. This has also been the attitude of the government: to strike a balance between purchasing power and competitiveness, which today means surviving or not surviving for many entrepreneurs. That's what the coalition agreement says. In order to strike a good balance between purchasing power and competitiveness, we are creating a wage evolution similar to that of our neighbouring countries. For this reason, the government provided a negotiating framework from the beginning of March. On that occasion, he indicated that working with circulars was a possibility. He also stated that exceptional and temporary adjustments related to the health crisis cannot be deducted from the margin. Thirdly, the government has also made it very clear that there is a need to ensure that there are solutions for employees working in companies who, despite the crisis or sometimes due to the crisis, have done very well. If companies have worked well, they have done so thanks to their employees. Finding a solution that makes it possible for employees to benefit from the fact that companies have done well is an element that the government has put forward from the outset in the starting paper for social dialogue. I remain convinced that a balanced social agreement that takes account of everyone's sensitivities remains the best solution. Together with the Minister for Employment, we are going to take action to get the negotiations out of the current stalemate. I repeat, we will not emerge from the greatest economic crisis since the Second World War by turning our backs. There must be a minimum of goodwill and creativity. That's what we're supposed to do. This is what is expected of the social partners. Good will and creativity have always been the basis of the social agreements that have been established in our country. It has to be clear: we win together or we lose together. That is the choice that we and the social partners must make. The same applies to employers and employees. There is no winner in the current economic situation. The same applies to politics. This applies equally to our society. That is the lesson the covid crisis has taught us. We'll go through this together or we'll go down together. That is what I want to make clear to the social partners at the moment. Either they're going down together, or we're going to find a solution together, a solution that everyone can find.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u15	Mr Dermagne, you also have five minutes for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for several months now, alone or with the Prime Minister, I have spent a lot of time with the social partners trying to unblock these important negotiations and move them forward. I have done so, I think, by respecting each other's positions, and by seeking to maintain respect and cordiality in exchanges. This gave me the opportunity to get to know more about the representatives of workers and employers, who are high-quality people, even though I have, here and there, great differences of opinion with each other. The context was, of course, very complex, on the one hand, because the amended legal framework offers partners less negotiating space, on the other, because the economic situation limits the available wage margin. While respecting the government agreement, I have tried, with the Prime Minister, to re-create the conditions for a real negotiation. First, we wanted to separate the welfare component from the IPA component, seven months after the statutory deadline had been exceeded. Secondly, the framework was relaxed, in order to facilitate the granting of premiums when the 2020 results were good – despite the crisis – and by excluding from the margin certain benefits granted during the crisis, such as premiums related to telework, vaccination leave, or those paid to workers in the health care sector and in the major distribution chains. Finally, we have extended the scope of discussion to include important topics such as career ends, overtime or catching up with the minimum wage, which, as you know, has not been increased since 2008. On this point, let us be concrete, when we speak of a minimum wage, we are talking about an hourly wage which currently amounts to 9.87 euros gross. This means that 70,000 workers in our country receive €1,625.72 gross per month, as long as they work full-time – which is not the case for the majority of them. As the Prime Minister pointed out, sellers in small businesses – for example, in the food sector – are involved. They are the same workers who have responded present, sometimes at the risk of their health, to satisfy our vital needs. They did so out of courage, out of sense of responsibility, but also out of financial necessity. These, today, cannot be forgotten. Together with the Prime Minister, I have presented a start note to the social partners and on the basis of this menu they have resumed negotiations. As you know, they have reached an agreement on the distribution of the wealth envelope, but the negotiations on the interprofessional agreement have unfortunately stalled. We are increasing contacts at the moment to try by all means to ensure that the social partners reach an agreement. The government left them until May 1st, a few days left. I am convinced that it is essential that they reach an agreement. The world of work and the economic world, very shaken by this crisis, need social peace and this agreement could offer it to them. This agreement must be balanced, whether in the distribution of earnings or in the distribution of efforts. The background note presented to the social partners is balanced. I therefore hope that they will be able to reach an agreement at the beginning of this note. I want to plead here for a solidarity agreement because it is solidarity that allows us to go through this health and socio-economic crisis, because it is solidarity that allows us to keep our economy afloat, giving considerable aid to businesses and workers. It was thanks to the solidarity of all the workers, who, sometimes at the risk of their health, continued to perform their duties, that the vital needs of the Nation were assured. It was also thanks to the solidarity of all Belgians, who collectively agreed to respect the golden rules and containment measures, that we were able to limit the number of contaminations, the number of hospitalizations and the number of deaths. It is thanks to the solidarity of the Belgians that our children can find their way back to school. The agreement that will be reached between the social partners – and I call it all my wishes – or, failing that, within the government, must also be a solidarity agreement. The agreement must and will be a solidarity agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u17	Prime Minister, Minister, the answer I have heard here today is entirely in line with what has been agreed in the government, with the framework agreed upon. I'm happy with that. On the other hand, I have also heard four groups here today which are much wider than the framework you have just presented. I therefore hope that some internal reflection will take place and that the government's position here today will be confirmed at the government table. This government is in full favour of social dialogue, which was an objective of the coalition agreement. We do, too, and we have a large share of it. Commentators tell me that CD&V is in a grey position again. However, there is nothing gray about saving jobs and businesses, there is nothing wrong with that. Making agreements requires courage, leadership and responsibility. We are now asking the social partners to do the same. If they do not reach an agreement, we want to take up this role in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u18	Colleagues, like the Prime Minister, I also think there is more that binds us than separates us. I also believe that this applies to the social partners. I refuse to believe the opposite, as if the unions also do not believe in maintaining jobs, as if they also do not realise that some sectors are particularly hard hit, but also as if there are no employers who would very much like to give something more to say to their employees who have given everything during the crisis. As a wall, there is a wage standard law between those who, in this particular economic situation, show that they are not working now. The economy is currently split, with sectors that are bleeding. I hope the social partners will find the connection. Otherwise it's up to the government. There are opportunities to do more for all those heroes who have kept our country alive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u19	Ministers, outside of Parliament, on Twitter, we make statements: "It's May 1st, we have to exceed 0.4%." And here, by the way, no, we need an agreement. Social dialogue must be discussed and continued. We have to stop this game! The workers are not fooled. You should tell Conner Rousseau, too. He cannot speak on television about 0.4%, while his minister here says that people will see. It's not like that. Left must be proud again. Fier on his values. Fier to say that 0.4% is not enough. Ladies and gentlemen on the right, you say that people are already happy with 0.4%, but you yourself earn EUR 5 800 net. And then you tell this to the cashiers. That's not credible. There will be actions. The Metal Unions of the ACV and the ABVV have already said that there will be actions. I support them, all the PVDA is going to participate in those actions. We can feel it. You're going back, because you're wrong, and because you don't know how to explain to the workers the figure of 0.4% while there are six billion dividends for the BEL20. You do not know how to explain it, and that is why we continue the fight!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u20	We are talking about the interests of the workers and the PTB devotes its time to attacking the socialists. But who are you? The PTB is the Ponzi pyramid of Belgian politics. You accumulate frustrations and in the end, you sell dreams, illusions. You are the scam of Belgian politics! That's what you are! Mr Minister, I would ask you to continue the social dialogue, because we must remember that in Belgium workers are the heart of the economy. It's not just capital. There's work, too. And it was not the shareholders who woke up in the morning to go to the construction sites, to deliver the packages, to manufacture the vaccines. It's the workers. Let's give them justice! That is why, Prime Minister, we must be able to give all our chances of negotiation, but also remind some shareholders and employers that there can be no economy without respect for the workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u21	Prime Minister, Minister, I have heard you both say that we will need everyone. I agree. It's not an or-or story for us, it's an en-and-story. An agreement will only be good if it is for employers, but also for employees. So it's an en-and-story. We have seen over the past year that everyone can show great solidarity. You also said that we saw a great deal of solidarity, Minister, because the pressure was so high. In this file too, the pressure is so high. So, please, let us continue this solidarity towards the workplace.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u22	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answers. Of course we want people to receive a good wage. Companies that did well in the corona crisis could and have done something extra. We can do that in the future. However, it is not just a business that has been booming, but also a lot of businesses in the hospitality and trade that have long been unable to obtain income from their activities and who also have staff who have to pay them. Those people must also be taken into account. Prime Minister, Minister, I really hope that together you will succeed in getting the discussions back on track. I hope that solutions will be found and wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u23	Prime Minister, your message to the social partners just now was that you are going to continue together or that everything is going to fail. Perhaps this message was better delivered to your government members. After all, I hear most of my disagreements here. When it comes to raising the lowest wages, you face each other with drawn knives. Then the blame flies on Twitter. You agree on the savings on the system and the government parties do not bother at all. There is no saving on the immensely large cabinets or on the extra staff for former ministers, even though they work in the private sector. There is no saving on a completely useless Senate. There is no saving on the immigration bill, whether it increases in the Department of Asylum, Justice or Social Security. There is no saving on the subsidy scam. There's never any saving on the muddle government. If the state really were to tighten the waistband, it could loosen up a lot for the employee. Then at the end of the month the worker or hardworking servant will have a lot more left than the 0.4% we are talking about today. That is the real task of this Parliament, increasing net wages.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u24	Mr Dermagne, you are right. EUR 1.612 is not a wage, and that is because the government runs away with everything. You are calling for solidarity. I fully agree with that. Mr Prime Minister, I propose that we make a net increase of 3.2 %. That's no problem at all. The government will show solidarity and say that it doesn't have to do anything anymore. Imagine that to your unions. That'll be purchasing power. Then that person who earns 1.612 euros has something in the pockets. That is solidarity, and that would be wonderful. We've been going through the biggest crisis in 70 years. Seventy percent of the companies are doing badly. Seven percent made a lot of money without a problem. No problem. Make a proposal to the unions of profit participation. When I get home, I won't tell the catering people and the event sector that they have to pay an immediate raise, even though they haven't earned a euro lately. I think that's outrageous. You have the challenge, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u25	Prime Minister, you call on the social partners to go beyond confrontation and find solutions together. Basically, we're pretty much in agreement. However, if I may say so, it is rather the partners of your majority that you should strongly submit this suggestion. You should also communicate it to your ministers, and especially to your Minister of Employment. Indeed, both workers and employers deserve much better than the little game of political strength about May 1st. An IPA is, as some have said, an agreement for social peace, but it is not just that. It is also an agreement for more equity, which could outline the future of employment. Similarly, it is intended to take into account both workers and employers. You mentioned the case of the 70,000 workers who receive indecent wages. And I agree with you. For this reason, consider other solutions, such as a tax reform that will increase the net of low wages without increasing the cost of work for employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u26	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. We are environmentalists and we want a calm debate on improving the lives of workers, which must include wages, including in SMEs. Your Government has already taken a commendable first step in the right direction, taking a decision on the welfare envelope. We talked about it last week. We hear you gather, Prime Minister; we hear you call for a solidarity agreement, Minister. However, this agreement cannot be developed on the basis of a feeling of injustice. In the long run, the question may have to be asked and debated: does this 1996 law, as amended by the "Swedish" coalition, not now show its limits? Does it still promote social peace? Could we not pay more attention to the issue of the minimum wage? Prime Minister, with your government, you can do better for workers and more for social peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u27	Madam President, I would like to appeal to the real Belgians in the government: the Socialists. Our economy is bleeding. Thousands of companies are pumping to avoid drowning. So finally set up some sense of responsibility. If you're really worried about the jobs of people like Deborah, don't let the wages derail. Otherwise, just these jobs, those with the lowest wages, risk disappearing first. Mr Prime Minister, make sure that we do not end up with an agreement in which the front door of the wage standard of 0.4% seems to remain closed, but in which the back door is opened wide open to all kinds of exceptions that still undermine this wage standard. I also heard Minister Dermagne very well today. Prime Minister, I will give you a piece of advice, buy you a few breaks, so that the Socialists no longer take your pants off day after day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u28	Mr Minister, many people today do not know whether they have any work to do tomorrow, which has been the hardest reality for too many people for many years. Day-to-day contracts are intended to accommodate exceptional busy periods, but they increasingly become the standard. This has consequences for tens of thousands of workers. They don't build rights and don't know if they have a job tomorrow. The arguments of the past are long gone. No, day contracts aren't a springboard to a steady job. No, employees do not voluntarily opt for day contracts. No, it's not about a small group. It is often about young people who are stuck in temporary contracts and rarely get away from them, who do not call in sick or complain about the poor working conditions, because they are afraid to lose their jobs and who do not dare to go to the bathroom too often, because they are afraid that they may not come back next day. Minister, it was already decided in 2018 that the system does not work and that employers use day-to-day contracts too often and too quickly. That number had to be structurally down by a fifth. That was the aim of the National Labour Council. Where are we now? Do more employees now have a view of permanent employment? The figures you have given me show that they are not. There was a slight decrease in 2019, but there is another increase in 2020. The market will not solve that by itself. It seems that employing people without rights is too tempting for many employers. That is why I ask you what you will do to get out of this impasse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u29	Thank you for your question, Mrs Vanrobaeys. On 24 July 2018, representatives of employers and employees in the National Labour Council reached an agreement on the use of successive day contracts. In the agreement, the social partners committed themselves to reducing practice by at least 20% in 2018 and 2019. On the basis of the RSZ data in 2018, 24.3 % of the temporary contracts consisted of consecutive periods of one day. This decreased to 21.6 % in 2019 and increased to 23.6 % in 2020. Of course, the impact of the corona crisis in 2020 is significant, including on temporary work. The figures must therefore be interpreted with great caution. Nevertheless, the government, together with the social partners, has committed itself to combating abuse and excessive use. I asked the social partners to make this a priority and to make proposals. In the NAR, debates are ongoing on more restrictive measures. Of course, your proposal will be taken into account in the discussions. The joint temporary agency work committee also supervises the use of such contracts, by questioning other committees every quarter. However, this monitoring can also be improved. In any case, I hope that the social partners will quickly submit their proposals so that we can finally put an end to the abuse and excesses. This is necessary in order to improve safety and to increase the protection of workers who are victims of these practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You asked the social partners to make the issue a priority. But in the meantime, we have seen no improvement since the beginning of 2018. The impasse is not without consequences. It cannot be that in our country, for example, a toilet visit is not safe. In our country, uncertainty must not become the norm. In our country, it is not right for anyone who opens their mouths to plead for safe working conditions to be punished immediately with dismissal or with a ban on returning the next day. Our proposals help those involved. Your call to make that a priority helps them. Now the proposals simply have to be implemented. I look forward to real results.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u31	Madam President, Minister, I would like to repeat a statement by Pieter Timmermans exactly one year ago: 'I dare even say that the place where you work may be the most secure place where you cannot be infected'. For a year now, that myth has just been repeated. It is repeated that the workshop is a safe place. The government develops all kinds of strategies, including a strategy for schools, including a strategy for parks, including a strategy, in detail, for the seats on the trains, but not a real strategy for the biggest hotbed of infections, the workshop. Last month we asked you what you will do to prevent infections? Then you said you'd encourage teleworking. But now you have to look at the sectors that are most affected. For example, chicken meat processing. One can't debone any chicken via a video call. You should try that. That's totally impossible. You should try unloading feed from an inland waterway vessel via telework, Minister. That's totally impossible. Your answer was therefore not an answer to the real problems. A recent study by Hasselt University and KU Leuven has shown that precisely in those low-wage sectors where people have continued to work, in jobs that cannot be done from home, the biggest problems exist. These problems are ignored. Instead of drawing up a strategy for the windows of trains, it would be better to develop an effective strategy to ensure safety in the low-wage sectors, so that those who have worked hardest and taken the most risks can also work most safely. There is no such strategy, and that is why I ask you, Minister, what will you really do after one year in order to prevent contamination in the workplace as much as possible? Will you be obliged to involve the prevention and protection committees at work to redesign the workplace? Will you consider sanctions if certain managers refuse to create safe working conditions and safe workshops?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u32	Madam President, Mr Mertens, I am following closely the situation of contamination on the workplace. In certain sectors and functions, the risk of contamination is greater, as the recently proposed report again demonstrates. The rules for the protection of workers from the virus during their work are very clear: mandatory teleworking is still in force where it is possible, and those who have to go to work are subject to the rules of the generic guide and sector guides. Inspection services shall continue to monitor the application of these measures. I have also taken the initiative to work with rapid antigen tests to reduce contamination in places where teleworking is not possible. At present, 345,000 rapid tests have been carried out on company doctors for use in the workplace. In view of the success of the measure, it has been decided to extend the project until 1 June, and we will continue to monitor and adjust matters closely. Last Friday, I put on the agenda of the Consultative Committee new measures to provide additional protection for employees in the service cheque sector. Their employer now has to make single-use mouth masks available, and they can leave their working floors with pay if the customer fails to comply with the sanitary regulations. If necessary, I will not hesitate to propose new measures to the Consultation Committee in order to protect employees as best as possible during their work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but I have to say that I was looking at that study, although I myself wrote a book a year ago about the difficult situation in those low-wage sectors. Apparently, the situation didn't change a year later. I miss three things. First of all, I miss a real strategy to redesign the workplace. That seems a bit taboo, and I therefore ask that the committees be obliged to use such refurbishing, to allow ventilation, to allow possibly longer breaks, to allow a lower workload. Secondly, if there is a covid case in such a company, what are the procedures? I hear it's often chaos: the person is sent home quickly, in the idea that it's okay then. However, this is often not the case; there are often no adequate measures in the event of a covid contamination. However, that is crucial because at such a moment every hour counts. Thirdly, recommendations and tips are fine, but if we do not listen after a year, sanctions may also be used against the persistent exceptions that refuse to apply the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u34	Minister, this week the final version of Belgium's relaunch plan will be submitted to the Commission. I am very pleased that we have reached our deadline, because this is very important: EUR 5.9 billion of European money is being transferred to us. We need to spend this money very well, so we need to think this through and see what is feasible. My concern is who will man the Relance yard. After all, the relaunch plan is a lever for the economy. It will be a catalyst for many investments in the Länder. It also offers an ultimate opportunity to move faster towards a digital and sustainable economy and a sustainable future, which are both the EU's priorities and our plan. Our investments are based on this, such as energy-efficient renovation of government buildings, infrastructure adjustment, charging stations for the electric car park, green hydrogen development, cyber security. After all, our country is clearly lagging behind in terms of public investment. In addition to investment, our country also needs forward-looking reforms. The re-launch plan's laying it down, too. I am thinking here of the rate of effectiveness that is urgently needed. I therefore call for an active policy that motivates our inactive people to work in a viable formula, which educates them and forms them according to the needs of the labour market. Belgium has a high job vacancy rate and a clear job cut. Yet there are still inactive people and schools too few. In addition, European relaunch plans will require many qualified workers. What forward-looking reforms will you carry out in the labour market? Do you think that there are sufficient qualified workers to implement the relay plan in a affordable manner and within time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u35	Mrs Verhelst, as you know, the government aims to achieve an employment rate of 80% by 2030. This is a collective goal. The whole government is mobilized for this, as are the social partners and the Länder. To achieve our goal, we work cross-sectionally. In the context of this unprecedented crisis, we are taking important measures to maintain employment. These are general measures, such as temporary unemployment, and measures aimed at firms and sectors most affected. In the context of the Relance Plan, we are also introducing a measure to support companies that are putting their employees back into employment or rehiring their employees, even here with particular attention to the worst affected companies. In the relaunch plan, we also pay particular attention to employment and working conditions. We are planning, among other things, measures on the individual right to training and the well-being of workers. The annual Employment Conference will also focus on workers who are difficult to find or retain a job. Together with Mr Vandenbroucke, I am also working with workers who have been ill for some time. Social dialogue will also be essential in this respect. Finally, I would like to emphasise the work of the regions. They take important measures to provide opportunities for workers in the context of this relaunch plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u36	So, Minister, I really hope for this activation policy, but it will have to be a concrete action plan very quickly. 2030 might be a little too far. We need this in order to justify our relaunch plan towards Europe, but also for our country and for our budget. It can't just be with good intentions. As an entrepreneur I notice every day that I am nothing with a company that only has funds if I don't find good or motivated people. For me, also in my company, my motto is 'the ethical GPS: driven positive together'. I say that every day in our company. I have often heard the Prime Minister and yourself talk about solidarity and together. I'm sure it all has to be together. So I really hope that we can get everyone along and call everyone for this re-launch plan. Responsibility should lie not only in politics, but with all those who want and can work and contribute to solving this labour shortage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u37	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, "it is time for American companies and the 1 % wealthiest Americans to start paying their fair share". This is what Joe Biden recently said. At the same time, Janet Yellen, Secretary of State for the Treasury, gave an ambitious boost to the negotiations conducted within the framework of the OECD, suspended by Donald Trump in 2019, on the taxation of digital giants and multinationals. A new wind may rise on the world, with the hope of finally emerging from the paradigm of austerity, which was therefore not a fatality, which is even a bad economic recipe because it still does not end up nourishing populist national hatred. Minister, the population can no longer have to tighten its belt as wealth is increasingly concentrated in the hands of a few. The public can no longer hear the CEO of the FEB say that wages cannot be increased, while large companies continue to pay large dividends to their shareholders. The population can no longer see the gaps of wealth widening, its purchasing power stagnating, while the number of billionaires explodes as never before. So another vision of the world is possible. Another way to organize our economy is possible. Fairer, more redistributive taxation is possible. Today, the Biden administration seems to show the way, with new rules of the game. Minister, what do you learn from Joe Biden's statements? Will you be one of those who will advocate that this change of course be fully endorsed by the European Council? As political and economic powers, Europe and the United States can bring about real changes: fairer taxation of multinationals and shareholders, fairer taxation of wealth, taxation on financial transactions and, finally, air for workers and the middle classes. Minister, my question is very simple: will you be a proactive player in this change?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u38	Madam President, Minister, after 100 days in power, the administration of the new US President, Joe Biden, has marked the minds with a massive investment agenda, with a redistribution agenda to low-income families, with a tax justice agenda and, of course, with a renewed agenda in terms of climate ambition. America is back and when it's like that, frankly, it feels good! Instead, consider: $1 trillion in investments in education and early childhood, $800 billion in tax cuts for the most troubled families. In terms of financing, it is indeed tax justice that comes out great winner, since Americans who earn more than $1 million a year will see their dividend tax doubled. They will also see a 3.8% contribution on investment income. In addition, corporate tax will increase from 21 per cent to 28 per cent. It is a real progressive and ambitious tax shift. At the same time, the Biden administration also expressed its willingness to introduce a minimum corporate tax at the international level. President Biden obviously wanted to discuss this with the G20 partners, including the European Union. This is a very important debate because we know that tax competition is not only raging, but it is pulling us all down: the conditions of workers, public finances and, of course, the financing of our social security. Mr Minister, it is on this last point that I wanted to question you. What is your reaction to the proposal that the Biden administration will put on the table at the international level? We believe that this minimum corporate tax must be supported at the international level. What is your position in relation to this? What will you defend at European level? What are the next steps towards the adoption of such a mechanism?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, fair taxation is a top priority for me. I am a strong supporter of both government and international forums. This is important not only for the taxpayer but also for our competitiveness. As I also mentioned before the committee yesterday, our country is in favour of a multilateral solution with regard to the digitisation of our economy and international tax competition. The government agreement is clear on these two points. A form of digital taxation must come into being. That is why Belgium will take the lead in the discussions on this subject at international level. An agreement at this level should be preferred. Belgium will also play a constructive and proactive role in the OECD negotiations on reforms of international tax systems. Within the OECD, we are fully working on the proposed reform of international tax rules for multinationals. The aim of this reform is twofold. On the one hand, Pillar 1 will ensure that multinationals pay a fair amount of tax according to their activities, on the basis of new rules for the allocation of profits not based on physical presence. On the other hand, Pillar 2 aims to introduce a global minimum tax level for all groups falling within the OECD's scope. Colleagues, the swearing-in of President Biden and the change of power in the United States have also led to a significant change in the American position. It is a sign of hope to reach an agreement later this year. This allows us to move forward. However, a number of technical issues remain to be resolved. A first example is the U.S. minimum tax equivalent in the context of Pillar 2. Another example is the determination of the minimum rate, which is also a delicate step in this negotiation process. You will understand that we do not want to draw hasty conclusions at this stage of the negotiations. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to stress that good European coordination will in any case be crucial for our country. I will therefore be actively advocating this at European level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answers and reminder of the state of the negotiations on this important issue. I would like to point out that the Biden administration may have shown the way to tomorrow. It has relied on two things: public investment as a major lever for recovery, and the heart of a new organization of our economy, and a fairer tax system, also at the international level, that will better contribute the richest and the largest companies. The crisis could ultimately be an opportunity to reinvent the world, reinvent the rules. As socialists, we want these rules to be fairer, more supportive and more sustainable, the world of tomorrow must not be just a slogan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is essential for Belgium to take on a leading role in international debates. It must be noted that this has not been the case in recent years and we hope that this will be the case with this new government. There are many issues: taxation of digital giants, taxation of GAFAMs, taxation of multinationals, country-by-country reporting. These issues need to be pushed to the European and international levels. We'll be here to help you. I am also thinking of taxation in relation to the environment, with the reduction of our CO2 emissions, which is being discussed and decided also at European level. We need to take the lead on these issues, be in the lead platoon. You can count on us to encourage you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u42	Madam President, Minister, this is a strong symbolic action that took place this afternoon: a one-hour stoppage of work by doctors in specialisation training (called MACCS). Let us say it very clearly: without them, hospitals would not be able to provide care and there would not be enough doctors to take care of everything. Their role has always been important, including, of course, at the heart of this pandemic. They are in the oven and mill, working on average more than 60 hours a week, sometimes remaining 36 hours in a row without rest. It's heavy, very heavy. Has this situation always existed? Yes, and I know something about it, but that's no reason to accept the unacceptable. The inacceptable in human terms, the inacceptable also in order to guarantee the quality and safety of the patient's care. The representatives of the MACCS rightly expressed a whole series of claims. First, on their remuneration, health insurance and pension coverage. Secondly, on the duration of working time, and thirdly, on the quality of training. The proposal just made by the hospitals is indecent. It is even in decline compared to the current conditions of doctors attending a series of hospitals. At the same time, the financial situation of hospitals is very difficult. It is therefore impossible to meet the demands of the MACCS without additional funding from INAMI. I am told that margins would be – and will be – clearly available for the 2022 Health budget. My question is therefore very simple: are you going to allow for substantial progress in the status, remuneration, working hours and training of MACCS, of course, by providing the necessary budget to implement them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u43	Madam Chair, Minister, just a year ago, we applauded every night the caregivers who were at the front to care for our neighbours, our friends, our parents. A year ago, we seemed to have understood that nurses and doctors could no longer carry our health care system at arm's length. Among them, there are medical assistants clinician specialists, who were entitled to hope for a new status, which would combine protection at work with quality training, far from the current sui generis status which requires them to accumulate up to 96 or 120 hours of work per week, to the detriment of their education but also of their own health. And today it's the cold shower. The academic hospitals offer them a working agreement which ultimately resembles a compilation of the worst practices of each hospital: abolition of the salaries of guards, no hourly check-ups, no remuneration for overtime before 60 hours per week, withdrawal from pay from the first day of illness, reduction of the number of days off. In addition to this, specialist candidates would remain deprived of unemployment and pensions. Minister, if she pulls on the rope, she breaks. These doctors, but also these students today dare to express their anger by observing, it is true, an hour off work in front of their hospitals. So these are my questions, Minister. When will a regularization of the status of medical assistants clinician specialists candidates? When would a joint committee that would fully involve these doctors with a view to reaching a convention that would improve their working conditions rather than deteriorate them? When will additional funding be provided to hospitals so that they can finally raise the salaries of medical specialists in training? When would a uniform system be in place to control hospitals that do not comply with the time limits?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u44	Madam President, Minister, medical specialists in training are doing a great deal of work and are an essential link in the hospital care chain. Like other workers, they deserve our full consideration. We also owe them some recognition, because of their role during the first and second waves of the pandemic, during which they were very active in hospitals. Yet their employers, the hospital federations, offer them an unworthy status incompatible with the respect of the social rights in force in our country. Whether it is in terms of monitoring working conditions, pay for guards, overtime or their status in the event of illness, it is in any case unacceptable. I believe that this proposal is guided by financial reasons, in particular with regard to the financing of hospitals. Perhaps, but this in no way justifies such serious breaches of the rights of these candidates who are forming in the perspective of tomorrow's medicine, let us not forget. Minister, you seem to me to be bound by a duty of injunction. So what do you intend to do to recall the basic rules for the protection of the social rights of medical specialists in training? Are you going to meet with hospital federations and medical training associations on this subject? They expect from us, as well as from employers, a gesture that would contribute to the restoration of a serene climate in hospitals. We all, of course, need it very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u45	Mr Minister, 28,000 signatures, what do I say? In the meantime, 30,000 signatures are available for a petition of a few days old, hashtag "doctors with borders." This shows that the problem of the 6,000 medical specialists in training is really a problem, and is actually alive. Working weeks of 100 hours are more rule than exception, making the workload huge. At the same time, the internship teacher who has to assess them is also their employer, which makes it difficult to raise problems. One hospital takes care of it this way, the other. There's no uniform contract for all hospitals. Several times a week they have to keep watch in which they have to work 24 to 36 hours in one piece, without rest. And without normal social rights. Minister, admit that all of this is no longer of this time. Working weeks of 100 hours, waiting shifts of more than 24 hours in a row, no wonder two out of ten doctors-specialists in training think of stopping. However, the corona crisis has shown that they have made a very important contribution to the justice of our care and to the justice of our hospitals. Applause is, of course, heartwarming, but it does not work. After forty years, decent legislative work may finally be put on the table to rule out such medieval situations for good. Mr. Secretary, do you understand the demands of the doctors-specialists? What's your plan of action? When will you finally start shooting?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u46	Colleagues, the social status and working conditions of medical specialists in training need to be improved, I am deeply convinced. The arguments were given. I am following closely the ongoing discussions in the National Joint Medical-Hospital Commission and have asked its President, Jo De Cock, to keep me informed. A meeting on this subject is scheduled for 5 May. A second meeting is scheduled for 19 May. I really hope that progress will be made because it is necessary. It will also be necessary to try to translate all this into regulation before 1 August. These include issues of remuneration, contracts and training. It will not only require a concrete agreement, but also a tangible improvement. In the medico-mut agreement, an amount of EUR 10 million was set aside to facilitate this agreement. It seems to me that this is insufficient and that is why I have decided to add additional budgetary resources. I do not wish to comment on the proposals that are on the table or on the amounts in question. We need an agreement and to facilitate this agreement, we need an additional budgetary effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u47	Minister, I have had the opportunity to look a little bit at the various aspects of the applications of medical specialists in training. Ten million euros is nothing in relation to the needs if, politically, we really want to improve their situation. There is a clear need for substantial budgetary resources. This is the full responsibility of the government, especially yours, when we see the financial reality of hospitals. I just want to tell them we have to send a signal pretty quickly. We all have an interest, as patients or future patients and also as a public authority in ensuring the quality of care, in ensuring that these doctors are also treated properly financially.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answers, although I regret that you did not want to reveal the supplementary budgetary means that you have announced. I regret it all the more because this announcement could have had the effect of calming the anger, more than legitimate, of these medical specialists in training. An anger that they had already expressed during their hearing in the special committee covid more than three months ago, alerting us to their working conditions which are just indecent. We all agree today that there is a lack of arms in all our hospitals. Yet, we do everything we can to exhaust and disgust them. Every effort is made to discourage these medical students from continuing their studies, which they have begun with passion and conviction. As the federal Minister of Health, I call on you to respond quickly and up to what is truly a new slap. I would also like to point out that the fact that assistant medical specialists are fighting today for their health and for the quality of their training is also and above all because the health of their patients depends entirely on it. I hope, Minister, that you will take full account of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answers. I feel that you are taking full measure of the problem. You announce that resources will be devoted to improving the status of medical specialists. I think it's really necessary. Perhaps we can also consider, for example, the progressive improvement of the status of general practitioners. We have managed to improve their status in recent years. I believe that the same must be done today with the medical specialist candidates; and perhaps also clearly distinguish - not always the case - between the role of the employer (the hospital) and the role of the trainer. I believe that this is really a very important concept in order to clarify contractual relations; and to ensure that, gradually, very quickly in the coming weeks and months, the status of these specialist doctors gives them more motivation. The danger today is demotivation. We all feel that the attractiveness of the profession is important. We have a role to play in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u50	Minister, you are well aware of what this is about, and I am pleased to see that. You have repeated here what we all know. I fear that these are just fine words, which unfortunately will not improve the condition of the doctors-specialists. Meetings, deliberations, consultations, meetings and consultations have been held for 40 years. It is time for real, concrete actions. Take that file. Have you ever considered what it would mean for hospitals if 2 out of 10 medical specialists in training were to give up? Have you ever considered what it would mean to the patients? Minister, the Flemish interest will not wait. We support the doctors-specialists in training in their fight for social rights. We will regularly ask you about a state of affairs in the file. There is also own legislative work in the making. If you refuse to address this problem, we will force you to do so. It's been long enough. The size is full. We're out of patience.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u51	Madam President, Minister, 159 000 long-term sick people are at home with mental problems. That's over a third of the total number of long-term sick. The number of people who are ill for a long time and are home with a burn-out has increased by as much as 162% over two years. This is reflected in the figures published by the ACV yesterday on the World Day for Safety and Health at Work. Those figures will not surprise you, you also mentioned them in your policy paper at the end of last year. In that policy paper, you also promised to start this fight against stress and burn-out and to join forces to achieve an integrated approach to the problem. That is necessary because burn-out also has many causes and is indeed often a confluence of different factors. CD&V believes it is important that we focus on prevention in order to keep more people on board. We must therefore also focus on the training, guidance and awareness of workers, but also on employers. In addition, of course, every employee is also entitled to deconnection. No one should be expected to be available for work day and night. It is also important that measurements are made to get a better view of the whole of this problem. We must not only work with projects, but we must come up with a comprehensive plan to tackle the burn-outs. How will you provide more reliable figures on the problem of burn-outs and psychosocial problems? What have you been able to do and what will you do to bring about a turnaround, so that the rising number of burn-outs is finally falling? When will you come to Parliament with your plan? Will you involve not only Mr Dermagne, but also the social partners, i.e. employers' and employees' organizations? What do you think of the proposals made by the ACV in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u52	Madam President, Minister, the ACV is indeed taking action today on the challenges of long-term sick and burn-outs. You'd think that's a good thing. Of course, the ACV sees only one bogeyman in this and that is the employer. If it depends on them, the employer will soon have to pay a fine if there are too many burn-outs in his company. In doing so, the ACV completely ignores the complexity of the phenomenon of burn-out and it is a mystery to me how this fine will help long-term sick people get back to work. 'Cause that's what a union's about anyway. You'd think if you were still naive. Not only the employer must take responsibility, Minister, but also the employee. But of course the ACV is totally opposed to that. And the government too has a huge responsibility here, especially if it wants to achieve the 80% rate of effectiveness it promises, without further action, in its coalition agreement. However, this government is putting the much-needed response of all partners into the long-term, both employers and employees. However, the problem is huge. We're talking about half a million long-term sick. Instead of writing off 29 000 long-term sick people through medical pensions, as this government does, we should finally make the change and see what people can do. Yesterday, Minister, I heard you talk about a new approach in this matter, but it remained rather vague. You did not go much further than general principles and positive incentives. Our group has drawn up a series of concrete reform measures, which you might want to read. Hence my questions. How do you respond to the unilateral action of the ACV? Are you going to work in the short term to respond to both employers and employees? Are you going to thoroughly consider our N-VA proposals on employment integration jobs, on-the-jobs, the fitness test and so much more, to effectively remove the many barriers to work for the sick?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u53	Colleagues, in 2019, Fedris, the institution dealing with occupational diseases and accidents at work, launched an important project on burn-out, helping people in particular in the health and financial sectors through secondary prevention against burn-out. That, by the way, was the merit of my predecessor, Mrs De Block, who started it. I strengthened that project and included the covid aspect. I hope that we will learn a lot from that soon. In addition, Minister Dermagne, responsible for Work and Economy, Minister Clarinval, responsible for Self-employed, Mrs De Sutter, responsible for Civil Service Affairs, and I presented an action plan on mental resilience at work to the government that approved it. In a first phase, this action plan will focus strongly on the dissemination and collection of information, for people in the broadest possible range. Next, concrete projects will be targeted at specific target groups and our intention is to further roll out the action plan in 2022. Mrs Lanjri, you were right to point out the preventive aspect, and Mrs Van Peel was right to point out the curative aspect of what we are doing with the so many long-term sick. I was indeed very general in this respect, Mrs van Peel, because I prepared a very concrete dossier after many months of consultation, but that file was not yet knocked off in the federal government and I am always careful. The idea is that we should make people available on the ground who really take on board the return to work of long-term sick people for whom that perspective can be a real perspective as soon as possible. We must also take important steps forward in the processing and collection of information to help the people, including the information they themselves provide. That is actually a story of digitisation and of connecting information flows. We will have to cooperate very well with the sub-governments, which I believe is also very possible. This morning I spent a number of hours at a conference on the subject. I heard Minister Crevits there on the same subject, and I very much agreed with everything she said. I don't know, but I hope she agreed with everything I said. So I do not see any contradictions there, but a lot of opportunities to work together. We will not focus on sanctions, but on support and assistance, on strengthening both workers, employers and the sick who no longer have an employer. It is a very important challenge and I hope to bring it to a successful conclusion with the support of Parliament and my colleagues in the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u54	Mr Minister, the figures are getting out of hand, and we do not like to see them. So it's really high time we turned the tide. It is true that we will need and will need to work together, in the federal government and with the regions. I am pleased that you agree with Mrs Crevits to address a number of issues, which will contribute to greater prevention. Of course, it is good to put projects on the ground, because it allows us to identify which methods work and which do not, but ultimately we have to move towards a structural approach. The policy must not remain purely project-oriented. In the long term, we must have a structural plan that will put an end to the increase in burn-outs. We simply cannot afford to put half a million workers aside while they want to work. We have to work on that ourselves. Employers' and workers' organisations must provide a hand in the hand with a solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u55	Thank you, Minister. I did not hear you respond to the rather populist solution of the ACV, which is taking action on that issue today. You're a little fuzzy. Forgive me for not having to do that. I don't have to knock anything off with the government. It is important that you bear in mind that you should not only sound social, but that you should be. Then you must dare to take really brave steps, placing responsibility on both employees and employers as well as on yourself. Let people get back to work without losing their benefits, for example. Give them the opportunity to look for a job with another employer during their reintegration process. Rethink the guaranteed wage. Reform the binary disease note into a fitness certificate. Start the reintegration calls from day one. Our proposals are ready, I'll get them to you. Please make it work. Leaving people with only one benefit is anything but social.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u56	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the images of the clashes in the wood of La Cambre, on 1 April of this year, remain in our memory. Thousands of people had then decided to come together to ask for more freedom, a legitimate aspiration after fourteen months of deprivation. But this kind of meeting must be held in a responsible manner to avoid a possible health fiasco. The police had evacuated the premises. We know the rest. A similar event is announced for Saturday. As I speak to you, more than 18,000 people have indicated on social networks that they will participate. Some 100 minutes have already been drawn up for incitement to violence against the police. Encrypted messages that speak of preparation for urban guerrillas have been intercepted. The authorities fear the involvement of extremist groups. Madam Minister, there are 48 hours left to do everything possible to avoid the repetition of these images of chaos in the capital and not to take the risk of a new epidemic cluster appearing. As you can see, Minister, the situation is particularly challenging and disturbing. To avoid these drifts, prevention seems crucial to me. It therefore seems essential to me to act upstream. Minister, what steps have you taken or intend to take to prevent this event from turning into a health tragedy? How to enforce distancing rules? What measures will be taken to combat the infiltration of dangerous groups, risking turning this event into a security tragedy by endangering a majority of participants, although illegal, but with peaceful intentions, it seems? What measures will be taken to ensure the security of law enforcement personnel? Is it, for example, planned to filter the different accesses to the wood of the Cambre? What police mechanism will be put in place? You and the mayor of Brussels have come together. In the event of a new security flaw, are you ready to take over? Finally, have you established a dialogue with the organizers of this event who have publicly confessed to being completely overwhelmed? If so, what has emerged?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u57	Madam President, dear colleague De Maegd, it must be noted that the L'ABÎME collective, using both the press and social media, is trying to manipulate public opinion and force local authorities to take measures to frame an event for which no prior authorization or consultation has been requested from them. In addition, no request for an exemption for the organization of such an event was made by the latter, although he had the option of doing so following the ministerial order on Monday. Since the launch of this call, the profile of participants at the La Boum 2 event seems to be evolving. The authorities and the police are aware that gatherings of various movements are likely to take place in Brussels and throughout the city. The situation is being monitored closely and the police authorities and services are preparing accordingly. This Monday, I met with the mayor of Brussels on this subject. It is clear that preventive measures will be taken. They will include the front-line presence of Brussels City stewards and preventive and dissuasive communication on social networks. In addition to this, an important mechanism of the local and federal police will be provided to intervene on the second line. A coordination meeting will be held tomorrow morning at the Crisis Centre to take stock of the situation of the services concerned and the measures to be taken in connection with the management of the events of 1 May throughout the territory of Brussels. In conclusion, I would like to return to the statements in the press of the collective L'ABÎME, which recognizes that it has no control over anything after issuing its call to gather, but which affirms that this is exactly the situation that it wished to arrive at. I strongly condemn this irresponsible and disrespectful attitude to the current health situation and to all those who are currently fighting in hospitals, but also to all those who have been making significant efforts for months to help improve the health situation in Belgium. Who can justify today, in the name of his personal freedom, the fact that he will potentially take the risk of contracting or transmitting the virus to a relative by participating in the gathering at the wood of the Cambre? Have we come to place our individualistic pleasures before the general well-being?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u58	Madam Minister, you confirm and understand the cry of the hearts of those who demand more freedom, but you rightly confirm the illegality of this event. I am also thinking of the sacrifices of the ill health professionals, who are still fighting in the hospitals today, the horeca, the event, the culture and the independents. Is it not to impose an additional slap on them to see thousands of people gather without respect for the barrier gestures as we see the end of the tunnel? All freedom implies responsibility, and we must recall that, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, people must be able to meet, but it must be done in a progressive and responsible manner. In order not to relive the failure of 1 April, marked by violent clashes, we must review the police system, Madam Minister: 18,000 people announce their presence. Almost 100 minutes are already drawn up for hatred of police officers on social networks. I act that you take the situation seriously. There will be stewards alongside the police; but will that be enough? Our cops can't be sent to the pipe breaker again. I therefore plead for sensible upstream measures, to avoid any health and safety slippage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u59	Mr Secretary of State, in order to launch the European Recovery Fund and to be able to distribute billions of euros in grants and loans to countries in southern Europe in particular, all 27 European Member States must give their consent. Belgium and 17 other Member States have already done so. However, Hungary is stalling, but Finland is also facing a government crisis and an almost impossible two-thirds majority that is needed. Belgium is counting on a small EUR 6 billion from the European pot and the federal government for more than EUR 1 billion. So my first question is do you have a plan B? What is your plan B if the European Recovery Fund ultimately fails, as many other European projects have already failed in this corona crisis? The four largest European countries have already proposed their recovery plan. France and Germany did so on Tuesday. Italy and Spain followed on Wednesday. Of course, these two guilty southern European countries can no longer wait to receive the many hundreds of billions of European grants, subsidies and cheap loans. The message is clear. The large countries and the biggest recipients of the recovery fund want everything to move forward quickly so that they can quickly taste the many European billions. France, in particular, is impatient and stated that Europe must remain in the race as China and the US progress with full speed. In the meantime, pending European corona aid, Italy is doing everything it can to keep Italian companies out of China's clutches. In a short time, the Italian Prime Minister blocked two strategic takeovers by Chinese state-owned companies. Mr Secretary of State, do you have any signals and do you see any risks of hostile takeovers in our country? What is Belgium doing to protect our companies from these hostile takeovers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u60	Madam President, Secretary of State, there are politicians, ministers and State Secretarys who are costing us a lot of money because they are opting for extra taxes or increasing spending. There are also politicians who raise money, either because they are making reforms or because they manage to withdraw money, for example, from Europe. The question I have is what category you're in. Are you gonna raise our money or are you gonna cost us money? At first glance, you are raising our money, EUR 5.9 billion, money that we receive from the European Union. Is that our fair share? Let's be honest, no, it's not. The Planning Bureau has calculated this and states that Belgium receives about 1.2 % of its gross domestic product. On average, other countries receive 2.3 % at European level, i.e. twice as much. We have received EUR 6 billion. In fact, according to the Planning Bureau, we should have gotten twice as much. In fact, we should have received EUR 12 billion. Is that your responsibility? It is above all the fault of Prime Minister De Croo, who has poorly negotiated at European level. What is your responsibility? Within the envelope of nearly EUR 6 billion there is EUR 1.2 billion for the federal government, and that is up to you to decide. You decide what will be invested and who gets what. The question is whether you do that wisely. First of all, we don't really know that. We still haven't received your full plan. We discussed it in committee last week. The plan has to be submitted this week. However, the plan is still not concerned about Parliament. When will you deliver the plan to Parliament and opt for transparency? Secondly, you have a plan for EUR 1.2 billion. At the same time, however, you state that you do not really have enough of that amount. You don't get paid for all your plans. You're gonna need extra pennies. Those are extra cents from the ordinary budget. Yesterday I asked Secretary of State De Bleeker, who replied to me that EUR 328 million will be allocated, which is actually your invoice. You won't be able to fit your plans into your envelope. So there is now an additional invoice of 328 million euros. Does it stop there or will the Dermine invoice continue to rise? There are politicians who cost and politicians who pay. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u61	Minister, you have four minutes for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u62	Madam President, the question is not how much it costs or whether the money will be paid for Belgium. The question is how much it costs if we do not invest enough in our future today. After the financial crisis of 2008, all we have done is take austerity measures, Mr Loones. In the United States, however, President Obama issued the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act in 2008:Nearly a trillion invested in American economy. Europe remained in crisis for four years, while America again experienced full growth in 2009. We do not want to do that again. We want to make the corona crisis an opportunity to invest further in our future, in an economy that is more sustainable and inclusive. That is what we want to build with our recovery plan. The plan will be submitted as soon as it has been approved by the various governments and then by the Consultative Committee. The Consultative Committee on this matter will take place tomorrow afternoon. Since last week, we have had a permanent dialogue with the European Commission, just like other countries, by the way. Today, on 29 April, only five countries officially submitted the recovery and resilience plan to Europe: Portugal, France, Germany, Greece and Slovakia. The plans of other Member States are not public, but we know that we have all received the same directives from Europe: preparing a future that is more digital and greener. Our country has respected these European directives and has gone even further than what they were asking for. The Planning Bureau states that our plan will have a sustainable impact on our country's productivity. As an economist, I know that you know that productivity is one of our country's biggest challenges. Within the FOD BOSA, a central monitoring and reporting cell will be set up which will submit a report to the European Commission on how we spend this money and follow up on the Milestones of the various projects up to twice a year. Three projects have been included in the Federal Government's list, on top of the envelope of the European Relance Plan: the Defence Quarters of the Future project for 100 million euros, the Customs Scanner for the Port of Antwerp for 58 million euros, and the renovation of several federal buildings for 170 million euros. Mr Vermeersch, as far as the ratification process is concerned, it is true that so far only 17 of the 27 Member States have ratified the own resources decision. It is up to the European Commission to follow up the ratification process in the coming months. The talks that will take place in the coming weeks will be very interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if Corona has proved something, it is that the European Union is not part of the solution, but is the cause of many problems. The European Union has completely failed. Think of the extremely late response to the crisis or the complete failure of vaccine purchases. Belgian politicians have been playing generous sponsor of the failing European institutions for years, sponsoring the hard-earned tax cents of especially the hard-working Fleming. It is high time Flemish politicians finally showed a fist against this European Union and, like the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden, Germany and Austria, negotiated a political discount with Europe so that we do not distribute our many billions of euros of taxpayers' money anywhere in southern Europe, but use it to protect our own economy, our own businesses and our own people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u64	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, it will be a celebration for you, 1 May, and apparently it is also your birthday, so double celebration. I notice that 1 May every year gives rise to some left-wing slogans and half-truths in Parliament. Most famous is austerity. What exactly does that mean? That's a way of cutting back on tax dollars. That's what my mother taught me, and that's what any government should do. We can see the results of this. The government that spends the most money in this country is the Flemish, and what is the result of that? When the house is on fire, when it is a crisis, the Flemish government can pump more money into the economy. Just look at the premiums for the catering industry: in Brussels, the amount is 12,000 euros per catering business, in Wallonia 16,000 euros, but in Flanders 40,000 euros. This can be done because Flanders takes care of the tax cents. Mr Secretary of State, take a good example from Flanders. The Flemish revival plan has already started and 93 percent of these projects are already in progress. Let's make sure you keep that same rhythm.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u65	That brings us to the end of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u66	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 April 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 April 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u67	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Vicky Reynaert, Goedele Liekens, Marianne Verhaert, Malik Ben Accour, Michel De Maegd, Samuel Cogolati, Els Van Hoof, Wouter De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u68	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1731/5) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1731/5) The title was amended by the committee in "proposal for a resolution to condemn Myanmar for the international crimes committed against the Rohingya, the military coup d'état of 31 January 2021 and the subsequent repression". The title was changed by the committee to "proposal of resolution on the condemnation of Myanmar for international crimes committed in respect of the Rohingya, the military coup on 31 January 2021 and subsequent repression'. The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur was Mrs Jadin, who referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on External Relations wants to become a resolution machine that raises its finger around the world and tells us how things should be better, as if the whole world is waiting for this Parliament to hear what can and should be done. I have the impression that putting energy into saving our own business is sometimes better spent energy. However, things are also happening in the world where it is no longer a question of discussing whether or not we know better than the people concerned, things where there really is a limit that could be called the humanity limit. Should we be a little more reluctant to use the mechanism of resolutions, our voice might sound a little heavier in those cases. This is just an introduction to the subject we are discussing here, because what is happening in Myanmar, the former Burma, of course falls into that category where everyone can say that the boundaries of humanity are clearly exceeded.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u70	Just a little bit of history. The independent Myanmar, Burma at that time, was the result of colonialism, a gathering of various peoples, ethnies, cultures, religious groups. Since 1962, when that country was under communist control, laws have been made that put a certain population group, the Rohingya, into a separate category, the category of non-definables. Their unclear ethnic origin was seen as a reason to put them in that non-category. That non-category was the victim of specific legislation or a specific policy that was actually aimed at driving them out of the country. A citizenship law was adopted in 1982. That law actually had the idea of creating a Burma, a Myanmar in which the various population groups with a kind of quota system could be included in a national project. In fact, there could be some understanding of this in theory. There is a certain reasoning behind this, which might make sense to a certain point, if one thinks that this is the way to transform ethnic conflicts into a national Burmese project in this case. There is still a chance of getting into that. Again, however, the Rohingya were the non-defined ones, the ones that did not fit in the picture. If, at a certain point in time, that policy leads to the use of the word 'genocide' from international institutions in 2018, that is the red light to say that one has gone beyond a discussion about policies and about pros and contras. It is therefore no coincidence that a resolution was adopted in the Flemish Parliament in 2018, on the initiative of the N-VA, but approved over the limits of majority and opposition, which deal with this issue. This resolution has already had consequences. The Flemish government is currently providing specific support for relief actions for refugees from the Rohingya community. These initiatives and support measures are aimed at basic hygiene and education. It is therefore logical that we should support this resolution, for which I would like to thank the initiators, Mrs Reynaert and Mrs Liekens, very much, in line with the resolution of the Flemish Parliament. In conclusion, I have a small critical note. In such resolutions we must be careful not to want to be too complete, otherwise perhaps we will be writing things that are questionable. The resolution proposes Aung San Suu Kyi as a willing but unable. That's a daring situation. Although its role initially led to a liberalisation that enjoyed a great deal of support worldwide, it remains to be seen whether this role has been positive until the last moment, and whether it did not draw the map of the army when the problems of the Rohingya recently reached a painful low. That is part of the resolution that we would have liked to see more nuanced. It may involve the risk of expressing an opinion on which other opinions are possible. However, we shall be voting in favour of this initiative. As has already been said, there is no question of a country being blamed here, but of crossing the limits of fundamental humanity. We certainly want to support this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I really wanted to speak in this very important debate. The massacre that is taking place in Myanmar before our eyes is a shame. A shame, first of all, for the military junta that has taken power, but also a shame for the authoritarian Chinese regime, which not only supports this regime and this military junta, but also plunders the wealth that remains in this country. It is in this context, ladies and gentlemen, that we, as environmentalists, welcome the adoption in the House of a text on the initiative of Vooruit and of Mrs Vicky Reynaert, who calls on the military junta to immediately cease the horrific murderous repression, including against children. What we are witnessing, the images that come to us, the testimonies that we are receiving here in Europe and the Human Rights Watch reports that we are reading are truly appalling. All the signals are red, so we cannot stand by those thousands of citizens who are fighting at the risk of their lives for the lack of democracy they have left. In some debates about this appalling repression against the civilian population and these pro-democracy protesters in Myanmar, I heard from a particular political party that said that defending democracy in Myanmar and defending the civilians fighting there was a bit of a roll for the Americans, for Uncle Sam's imperialism. To those who make these comments, I want to say, "Stop! Get that out of your head, that's bullshit!" The people who today risk their lives to go protesting in the street against the military junta or who block with three times nothing to the junta's military tanks, they do not do this for the beautiful eyes of the Americans or President Joe Biden! They do this to preserve their freedom, their fundamental freedoms. As parliamentarians elected in a democratic country, we, who have the luxury of debating here in complete freedom and transparency, have a duty to be the voice of those who do not, especially in Myanmar there. I think our responsibility today is not only moral and political, it is also legal. As we know, the International Court of Justice (ICJ) has taken a decision and has spoken of a serious risk of ongoing genocide against this minority, the Rohingya. It is important to understand that the United Nations Convention for the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide (CPRCG) adopted in 1948 by almost the entire international community, including ratification by our country, does not only punish and prosecute the genocidal crimes already committed, but must also prevent any risk of genocide against cultural, religious or linguistic minorities in the future. However, this is the case in Myanmar; this is what is happening with this Rohingya community. It is our legal duty to act with reference to the CPRCG. I would like to congratulate once again the initiative of our colleague from Vooruit and I am very proud of the amendments that we have been able to table with regard to this text, because for the first time we are asking Belgium to join the Gambia's case before the International Court of Justice in The Hague against Myanmar. It's important to say so. Today, by voting on this text, we not only condemn what is happening, but also take our responsibility as a country to go to The Hague to prosecute the crimes of genocide, which are now being committed against this minority. I really think doing this step is a good thing. Today, I hope that we will adopt this text unanimously. I would remind you that this was not the case in committee. We had to face the rather shameful abstention of a political group. In the face of such massacres against civilians, I am sorry, but there are no more political parties, no more lines that hold. We are fighting the same massacres, the same war crimes, the same genocide. For human dignity, we must come together. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this time will be the right one, and that we will vote unanimously for a text that now puts pressure on Myanmar, which punishes the perpetrators of atrocities and encourages the return to democracy there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 1 February Burma was undergoing a new coup d'état which sparked the revolt of the Burmese population. Since then, the challenge has continued, as well as the crackdown on the movement, which does not weaken. It has even increased over the weeks. The total number of victims now stands at more than 750, according to updated data from the Political Prisoners' Assistance Association, among which there are about 50 children. March 27 was the most deadly day with 141 dead. Tensions between the military and some armed groups have increased dramatically since the coup. The KNU (Karen National Union), located in the south of the country, particularly virulent against the junta, provides shelter in the territory it controls at least 2,000 opponents of the coup d'état who fled the country's cities. It also announced on Tuesday that it had taken up an army base near the Thai border. The army was said to have responded immediately by air raids, causing the displacement of thousands of civilians. The balance sheet is now very heavy and the displacement of some 250,000 people must also be taken into account. Some no longer hesitate to bring the Burmese situation closer to that of Syria in 2011. It is in this sense that Michelle Bachelet, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, spoke less than two weeks ago. She said: "There are clear echoes of Syria in 2011. Here, too, we have seen peaceful demonstrations welcomed by an unnecessary and clearly disproportionate force. The brutal and persistent repression of the State against its own people has led some individuals to take up arms, followed by a spiral of violence throughout the country." However, while media tension is rightly focused on these events, it must not forget the situation experienced by the Rohingya people for a longer time. If it was already dramatic before the coup, it is to be feared that it will worsen all the more. Currently, few elements filter on this subject. I recall that in 2017, some 750,000 Rohingyas had already fled a military repression called genocide by the United Nations to take refuge in dramatic conditions in Bangladesh. This precedent should encourage us to be very vigilant. In total, more than 900,000 Rohingya refugees now live in Bangladesh, most often in camps where their living conditions continue to deteriorate. On 22 March, a major fire took place in the Cox's Bazar camp in Bangladesh, killing eleven people, with 10,000 families (45,000 people) finding themselves homeless. It is sensitive to this specific aspect that my group has decided to co-sign the text presented to us today and that I strongly support it. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the crisis, Belgium has supported international initiatives in the direction of resolving the conflict. However, it must act much more specifically on the fate of the Rohingya, intensifying pressure in international and European fora. According to the text that we have to vote today, we must, as a matter of priority, formally refer the matter to the International Court of Justice. That's indispensable. That is why Belgium must weigh its weight to support and facilitate the Gambia's legal action against Myanmar before this Court. It must also play an important role in urging the United Nations Security Council to establish a comprehensive arms embargo against Myanmar and to adopt targeted sanctions against natural and legal persons who appear to be responsible for serious human rights violations. My colleague, Samuel Cogolati, recalled earlier the unworthy abstention of a political group on this text. As far as I am concerned, I was particularly shocked by the abstention on precisely this part of the text aimed at the establishment of an arms embargo. Indignity is sometimes boundless! Ladies and gentlemen, Belgium will grow out of its strong stances and its support for the Rohingya minorities, who are victims of often hidden atrocities, which have been silenced for years by the Burmese junta. It is by doing so that it will position itself even more among the countries that really count on the international scene.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, Myanmar is now in a chaotic political situation. The February coup follows further coups d'état, while repression is carried out in iron and blood. The civilian population calls for legitimate political freedom, while political imprisonments are repeated, opposition leaders are murdered and internal violence highlights the ethnic divides of Burmese society. I myself, eleven years ago, was able to measure this intolerable reality in Myanmar, then exclusively locked up by the military, before the opening - far too short - and the dangerous regression that we are witnessing at the moment. From now on, monster demonstrations follow each other and are repressed with extreme violence. At present, more than 700 people have been killed, including many students and children, not to mention the hundreds of missing persons. According to information received, several hundred soldiers and police have deserted in order not to shoot the demonstrators. Many have found asylum in India, in the state of Mizoram. Let us add to this little-reviewed picture of military predation on the country's wealth, as well as China's immobile and harmful role, which struggles to tolerate a democratic and independent state in terms of its own political orientations. Of course, how can we speak of this country without mentioning the fate reserved for the Rohingyas, a Muslim minority against whom unheard of violence has been deployed by both the juntas and the civilian power? The accession to power of Aung San Suu Kyi in 2012 gave rise to the hope that their situation would finally improve. It had thus affirmed that her country could not become a democratic State governed by the rule of law unless all its ethnic minorities were respected. But we all know that the reality has unfortunately been quite different. Today, according to the United Nations, nearly one million Rohingyas are staying in the refugee camps in Bangladesh, not to mention the hundreds of thousands who have left their homes to join other countries. They fled an intolerable and unacceptable situation, atrocious acts that led the UN Independent International Fact-Finding Mission in 2018 to conclude that they were threatened with genocide, as my colleague from Ecolo pointed out. In Myanmar, the Rohingya constitute the largest Sunni Muslim ethnic and religious minority. Yet they are not recognized as one of the 135 minorities in the country, but still considered illegal migrants by the central government. For decades, they have been subjected to serious human rights violations. Worse, since 1962, laws have been in force to make their lives impossible and to encourage them to leave the country. This practice is described in international law as "ethnic cleansing". The Rohingya are now stateless and deprived of their civil rights. In addition, they do not have access to basic services and hospital services. In 2016, the Myanmar army launched a large-scale operation against them in Rakhine State, which resulted in executions, rapes, and destruction of entire villages. Policies to limit marriages and births are also implemented. This led to the mass exodus of the population that I was talking about in the introduction. In January 2020, the International Court of Justice decided, in an order, that Myanmar should take immediate steps to protect the Rohingya and retain evidence of the crimes committed against them. Since then, these horrific acts have continued. This situation clearly raises, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the responsibility of Aung San Suu Kyi itself. However, it must be borne in mind that the extent of its real powers in Burma requires careful analysis. Despite the extremely virulent condemnations of the international community, it has tried to push the path of negotiation that it had begun, it is not said enough, by establishing the Arakan Advisory Committee entrusted to Kofi Annan in August 2016. All these elements are known to the international community, which struggles to accompany that country on the path of a peaceful destiny, the path of reconciliation that would not set aside the responsibilities of each other in the violence of the past. Colleagues, we know the facts. The Burmese army has returned to its coercive and intrusive practices in the political life of the country and by putting an ultimatum on the civilian government. It required the Electoral Commission to publish the lists of electors for verification purposes. Faced with the outrage of citizens and the refusal of the civilian government, the army reacted and regained power on 1 February, as in 1962 or 1990. Does it defend the interests of the country, its unity, the protection of the territory and the protection of the population against an external enemy? No. It wants to preserve its achievements, its economic and political role. It claims to embody the national interest. Like any military junta, she claims that the country is on the brink of anarchy and that once again, she will save him. However, the National League for Democracy (NLD) won the November 2020 elections and its clear intentions were to amend the Constitution in order to further democratise the country, which of course goes against the interests of the army. The Commission has therefore interrupted this political process. Madam President, these are the facts. Unfortunately, they are recurrent in Burma, where civilian power is trying in vain to conquer the political space, to be able to be confiscated by the army, which, if one is a defender of liberal democracy, has no political or economic role to play. We see this liberal struggle taking place in other countries, such as Egypt, for example. In the face of this situation, what can we do? First, we must call again for the release of Aung San Suu Kyi and allow him to pursue and complete national reconciliation and give the Burmese a promising future horizon. I recall his words in his speech at Rangoun's Shwedagon pagoda in August 1988 which had had an incredible effect. She said: "Don't be afraid! Raise your head!" Her political career was launched and, from that day on, she became the black beast of the army and idol of the crowds. Then we must support her and her party, without waiting for miracles. While it has an icon status, it faces countless internal constraints faced by the army and armed separatist or self-governing groups and foreign powers. We must put the question of the Rohingya at the centre of our attention, those who are victims of double indifference as Arakanais and as Muslims. The Arakan Advisory Committee had issued its report in 2017. This report was buried by the army in September 2017 through the beginning of its abuses to drown in infamy the recommended solutions. We must do everything in our power to continue to help demonstrators through NGOs. It is truly a movement to celebrate, as much as Aung San Suu Kyi, courage, determination and audacity. Can we discuss this with China? I have a doubt. China has an ambivalent position with Burma. It must agree with the government in place, whether civilian or military, for economic reasons. It ensures the smooth running of the silk roads. It is Burma's largest trading partner. With 33% of the trade with this country, it is one of the first investors in terms of port, rail and electricity infrastructure. It also has security interests because it sees the country as a key space both to counter the Indian threat and to project its forces into the Indian Ocean. What the Chinese want, ladies and gentlemen, is simply stability, but stability that is politically neutral, whether civil or military. And the Burmese army does not appreciate the Chinese's grip on its territory. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the relative lack of political effects of sanctions, even if they are one weapon among others, other solutions must be found. I welcome the position of our Foreign Minister, Sophie Wilmès, who supports the initiatives of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and its most active members, including Indonesia, to deliver messages. We must be aware that what is at stake in Myanmar is a new ideological confrontation between authoritarian and liberal states in which we must invest as in other countries where we support the same fight. Ladies and gentlemen, as you have understood, my group will therefore support this resolution which I am happy to co-sign. We will have to remain seized of this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u74	Madam President, a great deal has already been said by my fellow Members, and I am not going to repeat the facts they have already described. Those who have committed crimes go free to this day and continue to commit atrocious crimes. It is mainly about the actions of the Myanmari army towards the Rohingya, the people for which this resolution was originally drawn up. Nor does the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights shy away from the harsh words and talk about genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity committed by the army against the Rohingya people. The strong signal we are sending today has already been given by the European Parliament, which also talks about murders, intimidation, rape and destruction of property. This resolution has been drafted in an unsuspecting period, but in the meantime Myanmar has persisted in anger and has gone even further. It is time to send a strong signal again and strongly condemn the human rights violations that are taking place today, not to shy away from the harsh words. The International Criminal Court has already done this, and several UN agencies are also talking about a'mass murder against its own people'. So there is nothing to prevent us from making that clear, and it is surprising that we cannot be unanimous on this. For the International Criminal Court, too, we must not use double standards: we must not accept what they say about this, but we must accept what they say about Palestine. So I also call on the PVDA colleagues to send out a strong signal together and not to use double standards and weights: the signals and reports are very clear, and I do not see why we should dispute them. I therefore call for this resolution to be adopted unanimously. The people of Myanmar suffer and say: we are fighting for our own freedom, for our own democracy, and we are putting our lives on the scale for that. That is why I ask that this hemisphere unanimously signal to Myanmar's army that violence must stop and that justice must be done, including with regard to the Rohingya people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u75	Madam President, I am a little surprised by all the previous speeches made by my fellow Members, because you may be surprised, and that in itself is strange. We are going to support the present motion for a resolution. The resolution will therefore be adopted unanimously. I'm declaring myself. Your speeches do not mention that a whole series of amendments were tabled when the resolution was discussed in committee, which completely transformed the resolution, of course in the light of the recent political topicality and urgency, which we also recognise. In no less than ten minutes we have had to analyse all the amendments based on the argument that there is indeed urgency. We thought the proposal would be adopted at the next plenary session. The argument was that we had to act very quickly, but we waited until after the Easter holidays for the resolution to be adopted. I don't think that way of working is serious. Within the majority, matters can be coordinated and agreed upon. A whole series of amendments were tabled at committee meetings, arguing that the proposal should be rushed through plenary as soon as possible. For us, that is a reasonable argument, but you cannot blame us for having some reservations about some of the wordings in the amendments tabled, for example the requests for additional sanctions against Myanmar. Allow me to add a few reserves to that. First of all, I would like to clarify that we condemn the military coup and repression that has been there since then and that we are concerned about the fate of the Rohingya. We recognise that the Rohingya are systematically suppressed, which is why we will support the resolution, but we have reservations about the means of economic sanctions, because additional economic sanctions imposed on a country very often exacerbate the suffering of the population, while we want to reduce it. Economic sanctions can often lead to a conflict being intensified and polarized and the victims whose fate we are concerned about are even worse off than at first. That is why we had reservations and abstained. All the other requests, recitals, were accepted. We shall also vote in favour of this resolution in this plenary. After all, we condemn this coup and the continuing violence since then. We also believe that the conflict should be resolved internally. We also call for dialogue and peaceful solutions, including diplomatic solutions, such as the current one through ASEAN, the regional organisation which has also brought together the countries of the region. A political dialogue has already been established. Myanmar's neighbouring countries are united in that region organisation and results have already been achieved. Myanmar's army, the Tatmadaw, has now agreed to a five-point plan to end the violence and resolve the conflict. Such matters must also be given a chance of development, without causing collateral damage, without affecting the population. All possible attempts at negotiation must be given opportunities. After all, we know that economic sanctions intended to affect the regime affect the population in particular. I can derive this from, for example, the answers given by Minister Wilmès in committee and the situation in Syria. Ironically, sanctions sometimes lead to those who want to be affected being put in a stronger position. Once again, we will support this resolution, despite our reservations about the amendments that were tabled very quickly at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, cultural diversity characterizes Myanmar. The cultural symbiosis creates an atmosphere in which different cultures, languages and historical roots merge, but also come into conflict with each other. The Rohingya are currently recognized as the most persecuted minority worldwide. Followed by the army in Myanmar and unwanted in the surrounding countries, that minority has no future at all. Aung San Suu Kyi's political victory in 2012 brought the hope that the atrocious human rights violations would finally come to an end. In an interview during her house arrest, she stated that Myanmar can only become a democratic rule of law if all ethnic minorities in the country are respected. The promising prospect with the hope that democracy, human rights, justice and freedom would flourish after its victory with regard to the Rohingya was not realised. The research report of the UN Fact-Finding Mission concluded on 18 September 2018 that the Rohingya are threatened with genocide. The International Court of Justice in The Hague also reached that conclusion and on 23 January 2020 called for immediate action to protect the Rohingya and secure evidence. However, we must be realistic, the military coup and the return of the military junta make that virtually impossible. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I would like to ask you to consider the images that reach us from Myanmar. We get footage of the army shooting innocent civilians in the back and hearing stories about the murder of innocent children. Only yesterday there was fierce fighting between the army and protesters in the western state of Chin. The violence escalates and the army does not shy away from the use of heavy equipment. If we speak of crimes committed against the Rohingya, we must not forget that the same army is now oppressing the entire civilian population by the return of a military dictatorship and we all know what the army in Myanmar is capable of. The motion for a resolution that I have prepared together with Mr Liekens and Mrs Reynaert calls for a number of very concrete actions. The UN speaks of mass murders and the European Union also strongly condemns the crimes. However, that is not enough. Please do not stick to statements; that does not save the people of Myanmar. Make every effort to help the civilian population in Myanmar, including the Rohingya. Our group will support the motion for a resolution unanimously and with conviction. I have been able to conclude from various statements that all the other groups will do the same. I would, of course, like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 11 January 2021 I tabled this proposal for a resolution together with my fellow Members, Goedele Liekens and Marianne Verhaert. Colleagues have outlined in detail what we are talking about. The resolution itself is divided into two parts. One part is about the Rohingya who are threatened with genocide. The other part is about the recent coup and the consequences. I would like to take a moment to point out the importance of the resolution on both parts. First of all, as far as the Rohingya is concerned. From the end of 2016, the Myanmari army launched a large-scale military operation against the Rohingya and the state of Rakhine. The members of the Rohingya minority were executed and raped, villages were burned down and the Rohingya were driven to neighbour Bangladesh. The United Nations subsequently sent a fact-finding mission to Myanmar. The report of the fact-finding mission stated that the Rohingya are threatened with genocide. The Gambia then brought a lawsuit against Myanmar at the International Court of Justice in The Hague on 11 November 2019. On 23 January 2020, the same International Court of Justice unanimously ruled in a provisional measures decision that Myanmar should immediately take measures to protect the Rohingya. According to those 17 judges, the Rohingya run a significant risk of becoming a victim of genocide. Ladies and gentlemen, an independent investigation team has established that there is a threat of genocide. There is the ruling of the International Court of Justice that the Rohingya are at risk of genocide. Those decisions and decisions are very important. They come from an international organisation that has conducted an independent investigation and there is an international court that has made a preliminary ruling. So we have an objective basis for policy, and that is also important for our group. Those decisions and decisions are important, but of course action must be taken. It must not be left to condemn these human rights violations symbolically. It is important that we do this, especially as a Parliament, but it must not stop there. It cannot be the only thing we do in the context of Belgian foreign policy. We also note that until now those who committed the crimes have been freed. The crimes just keep happening. We had written and proposed a resolution, in which we wanted to obtain international support for this case in order to bring about actual criminal proceedings. The requests to the government are made in two parts. Firstly, a condemnation of human rights violations by asking for action to be taken against them through the European and international fora and in Myanmar itself. Secondly, the request to support international law. It is therefore a question of supporting the provisional measures imposed by the Decision. We also call for support for the Gambia's case in the run-up to a final ruling and for the establishment of a hybrid criminal tribunal at international level in order to give concrete effect to the decision of the International Court of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, this resolution also calls on the government to intervene on behalf of Belgium in the matter itself before the International Court of Justice on the part of Gambia, just as the Netherlands and Canada do. By doing so, Belgium is playing a pioneering role in the field of human rights violations, especially as regards the protection of minorities who, according to an international independent investigation, are at risk of becoming victims of genocide. We had tabled the resolution halfway through January 2021, but only two weeks later it was shown how pressing the problem in Myanmar really is because the army, which is also the main responsible for the Rohingya genocide, carried out a coup d'état on 1 February. The Myanmari army is shooting at its own people who are protesting massively against the coup. More than 750 people have been killed, including children. The resolution therefore calls for the House to condemn the coup d'état and, in particular, the violence against the population. It calls on the government to do the same, but it also calls on the government to call for additional sanctions for the European Union and the UN. Those sanctions were the subject of discussion in committee. I will explain what sanctions are involved. These are individual, direct sanctions against soldiers involved in the coup d'état and ethnic cleansing of the Rohingya, under the European Magnitsky Act developed at the end of last year. These sanctions are directed against individuals, but not against a country or a sector. This means that these people cannot travel to the European Union, that they cannot park money in the Member States of the European Union and that their existing assets are frozen. EU citizens and businesses should also not make funding available to persons and entities subject to sanctions. The only people who are affected by this are the military themselves. Secondly, however, we are also talking about targeted sanctions against the economic entities owned by the military junta. Colleagues of the PVDA, for example, are the companies that trade in rubies. These military conglomerates are the financial lifebloods of the military. Its proceeds are used to buy weapons and to kill children and their own people. If we continue to trade with these companies, we will ensure that the income for these companies is maintained and we will indirectly finance the mass murder of our own people. That is where we have to take responsibility. I would also point out that the people of Myanmar are still prepared to cease, even if it causes serious damage to the economy. After all, the profits of the companies owned by the military are of no use to them at all, because they are not used to provide workers with a better wage or to create safe working conditions. On the contrary, profits are used to kill their own children. We won't be part of that. That is why we have called for additional sanctions in the resolution. The resolution was indeed adopted before Easter holidays in the Committee on External Relations because a debate was also taking place at European level in the Council of the European Union. In the meantime, at the beginning of last week, the Council imposed additional sanctions on 10 persons and two companies controlled by the military junta. I am pleased that the Chamber will unanimously approve the resolution and that the position has changed. I would like to thank all Members for their support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the humanitarian situation in Myanmar is simply catastrophic. According to United Nations reports, approximately 909,000 Rohingyas are staying in refugee camps in Bangladesh. Yet, even today, Rohingyas are being repatriated to Myanmar, although their fate is most uncertain. It is also deplorable to note that the Myanmar army seems to be based on the principle that it enjoys full impunity for the many crimes it commits. Another worrisome aspect is the state of the economy of this country virtually on its knees. The price of food is increasing considerably and humanitarian operations themselves are being compromised. And yet, during that time, the international community seems to be frozen. Several non-governmental organizations even speak of the failure of the international community to act and bring those responsible to international tribunals. That alone, ladies and gentlemen, justifies our intervention today. Several countries have universal jurisdiction to investigate all persons who may reasonably be suspected of having committed crimes against humanity, war crimes or other crimes under international law. In view of such a failure, this motion for a resolution is undoubtedly a necessity. Indeed, it is our duty as a parliamentarian to remind the government, but also the world, that we are defending human rights, and that we are blaming any crime against humanity and any crime that could be described as genocide in this regard. In particular, we support the Government's call for the establishment of a hybrid criminal court under international law to implement the order of the International Court of Justice. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, without any ambiguity, we will of course support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u79	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u80	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u81	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Steven Matheï, Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Cécile Cornet, Patrick Dewael, Joris Vandenbroucke, Dieter Vanbesien, Servais Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u82	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been asked to report orally on the discussion of the legislative proposal No. 1942, on the one-off extension of the period of application of the assisted areas. In his explanatory statement, Mr Matheï pointed out that companies investing in a defined assisted area, a zone in a radius of 40 kilometres around Genk, Turnhout and Vilvoorde in Flanders and around Seraing, Sambreville, Charleroi and Frameries in Wallonia, could obtain an exemption of 25% from the farm tax. That means about 4 to 5% of labour costs. The representatives of the people Vermeersch, Van Hees, Piedboeuf, Matheï and Marghem spoke during yesterday's discussion. They mentioned, among other things, the somewhat tight timing and the way in which the legislative proposal was discussed, which had first been tabled as an amendment to the bill on various financial provisions. I am sure you will find these comments already in the preliminary report. One member criticised the extension of the measure without waiting for an in-depth evaluation and spending review. It also discussed the changing position in the Minister of Finance's file and the risk of undesirable side effects. It was asked whether the corona crisis was sufficient reason to extend the measure quickly and comments were made regarding the consultations with the Regions, the history and the duration of the measure. In the end, the bill was passed by 13 votes to one. Allow me to add two more reservations about a personal title. Firstly, in the case of legislative proposals, it is not compulsory to charge the cost. In the meantime, I've requested it from the Secretary of State. The measure amounts to EUR 6 million less revenue for the government, spread over the years 2021 to 2024. Secondly, it is also slowly becoming time for a proper and normal procedure again, with in-depth discussions. The Secretary of State also pointed out that it is a good thing that all ministers are reviewing measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u84	I would like to thank the reporter for his oral report on the committee's work, in which I was not present yesterday, for the sake of clarity, but Mr Vermeersch. Minister, at one of your first meetings of this legislature, I have interviewed you in the Finance Committee about the extension of the rules on the destabilized zones. I wasn't alone with that. The employers' organisations also made the alarm at the time. A few years ago, Limburg and other regions were recognised as dislocated zones. That had a number of causes. As far as Limburg is concerned, Ford Genk's closure had a large catalytic function. As I said, that decision was not only for Limburg, but also for other regions affected in a similar way. I would like to mention specifically Mr Van Lommel, because he was urging the Kempen region to do so. The decision resulted in a significant reduction in labour costs, as the companies located in the zone received a 25% reduction in the farm levy for new recruitments. You must forgive me for mentioning specifically my region in the debate as Limburg. This measure has put the maximum effort into job creation in Limburg. As Mr Leysen said, the measure expires on 30 April 2021, tomorrow. It is therefore not surprising that employers' organisations asked for clarity in the autumn of last year, and quickly. After all, despite this special status and despite all the efforts under the SALK plans, the economy in Limburg remains particularly cyclically sensitive. It goes without saying that the corona crisis has not contributed to a constant economic boom. It was therefore very important that the new government should continue to support Limburg and the other similar affected regions beyond 2020. We must get out of the crisis and therefore continue to invest in equipment and in people. Moreover, the fact that the measure has worked in the past is demonstrated by the fact that it has delivered more than 5,000 jobs. You have also confirmed this in your reply to my first interplay. Moreover, it should also be said that the current measure is far too little known to SMEs and therefore SMEs with expansion or investment plans often do not apply the measure out of ignorance. That too is therefore worth the attention, and it is for this reason that I, on behalf of the Vlaams Belangroep (Flemish Interest Group), already wanted to encourage the government last year to take the decision to extend it and, in addition, to focus more on the awareness of the measure. During the discussion in committee, many colleagues supported our question, including those from the majority, at least in words, because the motion of recommendation tabled by our group for a vote was voted off by all the majority parties. A strong signal to the employers was thus not mentioned at all. It is therefore only now, one day before the end of the measure, that a legislative proposal should be submitted at the eleventh hour which provides for the extension. Thus, employers and businesses, SMEs, are literally kept in suspense until the last day, and now the majority are taking the necessary legislative steps quickly, in seven haste. This is Vivaldi at his best, I would say, but together with my colleagues I would like to say that I regret that. Indeed, entrepreneurs in the affected regions deserve better. They have a hard time and they deserve clarity. Fortunately, the moving insight has triumphed in this matter. We will therefore be happy to vote in favour of the legislative proposal in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u85	Madam President, I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the oral report on yesterday's work. The present proposal is very important, it extends the so-called "aid zones" regime. Those assisted areas didn't just show up. They are located in a number of places in Wallonia and in Flanders, in the Kempen, in Zaventem-Vilvoorde and of course also last but not least in Limburg as far as I am concerned. The areas of aid have a certain origin, because they are all regions where firms have been very badly affected in one way or another, causing job losses. The scheme for assisted areas ensures that the job engine can be restarted, that companies are encouraged to create jobs and recruit people. If we look at the figures, we see that the measures have also had an effect. A total of 8,750 additional jobs were created in all assisted areas. For Limburg, more than 5,000 additional jobs are involved. The measure therefore has an impact on the ground for the companies, but also on the people who live there and eventually get a job. The corona pandemic has, of course, put an unexpected brake on investment in the affected regions by the companies, just at the moment when the assisted areas and their deadlines are coming to an end. Therefore, it is perfectly justified to extend the deadline by 18 months. In order to achieve this, consultation with the Länder is, of course, necessary. This is also laid down in the procedure. This means that the consultations in the field must also take place effectively, which will obviously take some time, in order to be able to consult with all the Länder. The result is that today this important bill is before us and that it is effectively proposed to extend the support zones by 18 months. This gives businesses the opportunity to create additional jobs during and after the corona pandemic in places where this is necessary and thus to ensure greater job security for people on the ground. In this way, the measure may also lead to the relance. At the same time, it also gives the opportunity and time to look at what can happen, even after that eighteen-month period. Perhaps in the context of the whole relay story, which needs to be rolled out across our country, consideration could be given to what should happen afterwards. Our group will approve the legislative proposal in full, because it is an essential measure for people and businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u86	Madam President, Mr Leysen, thank you for your oral report, which was rather brief. This is a quality for a rapporteur, which is usually what he is asked to do. But maybe you didn't give all the arguments in the details. I shall therefore go a little further than this oral report. In the introduction, I will quickly come back to the genesis of this bill, which Mr.Leysen referred to. I thought the majority had opted for a new political culture. Unfortunately, in the Finance Committee, we have seen a new episode of old political culture. Indeed, as we were dealing with a bill on the fight against tax fraud, the government suddenly introduced, through the members of the majority, an amendment containing the measures we are discussing here. These measures have nothing to do with tax evasion, but on the contrary. Moreover, he did not go through the Council of State. I have had to remind colleagues in committee on several occasions of the content of Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure of the House: "Each member has the right to submit amendments. They must effectively apply to the specific subject matter or article of the draft or proposal which they tend to modify." We were clearly not in this case. So it took a few palabres for the majority to finally agree to comply with the Rules of Procedure. Clearly, it is not self-evident in this Parliament to respect the Rules of Procedure. The majority withdrew its amendment and recycled it in the form of a bill, not a bill, when it was clearly coming from the government, but in the form of the bill before us today. It does not go through the Council of State either. The aim of this proposal is to extend the aid area measure by 18 months. Employers who invest in these areas of assistance are exempt from paying 25% of the professional allowance of their staff. I have six comments – or rather criticisms – to make with regard to this proposal. The first concerns the opposition, which is not new, of the PTB with respect to professional prepayment waivers. What is this beast? That's what I call tax theft. In committee, it is true that some members of the MR, such as Mr Piedboeuf and President Margehm, have leapt by hearing this term "legal theft". It seems to have a contradiction between its terms. It is indeed a paradox, which I like to handle. Imagine passing a law in the House that allows any individual to take, if he or she wishes, his or her neighbour's bicycle. If the law says that, everyone will say it's stealing. Yeah, but legal theft. We are here in the same case. Why? Because this is the worker's tax, which the employer is supposed to levy at source to pay to the tax. Everyone knows that. There's the gross salary and the net salary. The difference between the two is the tax that the employer collects from the source to pay it to the tax authorities. Except that the employer, through a law like this, can keep part of this professional discount for himself; I call it legal theft. Mr Piedboeuf will say: "Yes, but this has no impact on the worker because we act as if this discount had been paid, and the worker is therefore not affected". It may not be individual-scale flight, but it is collective-scale flight. The whole class of employers steals from the indirect wage that is tax to the class of workers. It's legal robbery. We are opposed to it in all its variations. Unfortunately, this is not the only case of a professional discount exemption. In fact, there are currently eleven different types of professional discount exemption in our legislation. The total of these exemptions represents a budget amount of between EUR 3 billion and EUR 4 billion each year. It's not nothing! In addition, such measures are also the embryo of free zones. A free zone, you know what it is. Some countries are specialists in free zones. It is an area of the country where tax laws and even social legislation are abolished. So we typically enter into a logic of tax haven. Here, it is targeted at professional discount exemptions but this could be extended to other exemptions. Moreover, this puts the subregions in tax competition with the risk of a downward spiral. In the PTB, we are far from opposed to the idea of helping a region or subregion that is in need, in order to address the problem of the unequal development of capitalism, but this must be done through positive measures. We are thinking, for example, of public investment, of investing in projects in a positive way and not of giving gifts to the bosses. This is my first criticism, which is the most fundamental. My second criticism relates to the fact that this is an emergency extension. Clearly, governments – there are many – have had to agree. It is not possible – we do not know very well why – to agree to this text, in an emergency, to extend a mechanism without a prior assessment of its effectiveness. It should be noted, moreover, that waivers of professional prepayments have often followed this situation. They have been introduced as a matter of urgency by programme laws which are limited to setting general objectives and which are not set out in more specific objectives linked to quantified targets, deadlines, etc. This was noted by the Court of Auditors in a March 2019 report. I quote the Court of Auditors' report, which examined these exemptions from professional prepayments: "This situation does not make it possible to assess this fiscal policy, in particular on the basis of performance indicators used to measure its effects." The Court of Auditors called for specific, concrete and measurable objectives to be attached to these exemptions. We do not find any of this here. We are obviously acting urgently, but we are not following the valuable recommendations of this body. Already, through the programme law of 20 December 2020, a new exemption for the payment of a professional allowance for the training of workers had been introduced as a matter of urgency. We are therefore faced with a second case, under this government, of such a waiver under the same conditions. A third criticism, which shows that we are going very far in the paradox, is that the same Vivaldi government decided, on 12 February, to launch a pilot project of spending review. The Secretary of State is here to attest to this, since we have talked about it. One of the components of this pilot project, which is to review expenditures, is specifically related to professional prepayment waivers. Madam Secretary of State, you are the one carrying this program, aren't you? Why didn't you wait for the results of the pilot project to measure its effectiveness? You didn't wait, but rather went straight ahead! Of course, we call for urgency, but that obviously makes no sense. My fourth criticism is pretty bad, because the Minister of Finance - and we are fortunate that he is also here with us - was against the extension of this measure. He himself said so no later than 10 March last, in response to oral questions. I shall therefore quote Mr. Van Peteghem: "I am not in favour of simply extending the six-year legal period. After such a long period, the reasons for the aid treatment are no longer justified." I think his words make sense. Since we heard the minister say something else in committee when he wanted to put the provision in the form of an amendment, I sought to know why Mr. Van Peteghem of April disagrees with Mr. Van Peteghem from March. Where does the contradiction come from? As the minister was absent from committee, as this bill was camouflaged in the bill, I interviewed a colleague from the CD&V: Mr.Mathei. Unfortunately, he couldn't shed light on this mystery. Since we have the chance to benefit from the presence of the Minister of Finance, perhaps I could ask him that the light be! It must be in line with a minister from a Christian party! My fifth criticism is about the bounty effect. The Walloon Institute for Evaluation, Foresight and Statistics (IWEPS) had, as early as 2014, evaluated a policy to support investment in free zones. The study concluded that the aid granted to some of them had not resulted in statistically significant effects on economic activity and employment. I quote the IWEPS report: "There is no statistical evidence that the number of investment files and the average value of assisted projects located in the free zones would have changed differently in the absence of increased aid." And to conclude: "Subsidies granted are overall boon effects for the companies that have benefited from them." Unfortunately, I fear that the same will apply to the professional discount exemptions that are granted here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u87	Finally, the sixth criticism relates to the fact that the proponents of the proposal are trying to justify this extension of a measure that dates from six years ago by the Corona crisis. The rope's a little big! This obviously has nothing to do with it. Moreover, it is not with subregional measures in aid areas that the economic effects of the pandemic will be addressed. There may be targeted aid against actors in difficulty but not geographically determined aid – the pandemic affects the entire country – that makes no sense. Madam President, for the six reasons I have just outlined, the PTB will not be able to support this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u88	Madam President, I would like to comment on some of the comments that have been made here. The system we're about to extend certainly offers benefits in terms of job creation. So it's clear why we're extending the system. Mrs Ponthier, in the discussions we have already had on this subject, we were all convinced of its added value. In fact, there was broad support in Parliament, as well as in committee, for this to be achieved effectively. The extension of the aid measure for the dislocated zones is important in order to guarantee further job creation specifically there. As rightly said, the deadline of 30 April was not new, so we knew that this was coming. Mr Van Hees, if you quote me, you must do so in full. I said in committee on 10 March that I am not in favour of simply extending the legal term of six years, but that I am in favour of making the system possible in itself. Especially in view of certain recent events, such as the Brexit, we must do everything we can to ensure such support. That is also why the government agreement clearly states that the system of dislocated zones will be evaluated. It will look at how we can make that possible in the future, and whether we should extend the system or change it in any other way. In particular, the regions have an important role to play. They take the initiative, they have to give the signal and we are always waiting for the input of the Regions. Because we had not yet received that signal at the meeting on 10 March, we contacted the regions ourselves and sat down together. I am pleased that we have come to a solution which has extended the zones for a further 18 months. This also means that the support in the currently defined areas can continue continuously. The agreement we have made is that I will evaluate the measure with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour to see whether an adjustment or extension is necessary. Whatever support is available, we can extend it that way. I am particularly pleased that there is broad support for this in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u89	Minister, on March 10, you said that the reasons behind the treatment of aid were no longer justified. Today, you say you understand the reasons. You can admit that you've changed your mind, it can happen, it's not a proof of simplicity of mind. The facts are here, the report is here. At the time, you said, "The reasons are no longer justified." Today, they are justified. I take note of your change of mind. I don't know what weighed in the balance for you to change your mind, but I take note of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u90	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u91	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1942/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1942/1) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u92	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u93	An order motion was tabled by Mr Peter De Roover and reads as follows: - having regard to the judgment in summary proceedings of the Brussels Court of First Instance of 31 March 2021 which held that the Civil Security Act of 2007 and two other laws cannot serve as a basis for the ministerial decisions restricting the freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution in these corona times; - having regard to the fact that the above court ruled that the principle of legality was infringed because the current way of working is not foreseeable enough and that the Belgian State must put an end to the corona measures within 30 days on the penalty of a penalty payment of EUR 5,000 per day that that period is exceeded; - having regard to the fact that the Belgian State appealed against the abovementioned judgment to the Brussels Court of Appeal; - having regard to the fact that the Court of Appeal recently reopened the debates by interim judgment to allow the parties at issue to make additional arguments in response to the Council of State's opinion 69.253/AV of 24 April 2021 amending the MB of 28 October 2020 laying down urgent measures to limit the spread of the coronavirus; - whereas the examination of the draft law on administrative police measures during an epidemic, the so-called pandemic law, is on the agenda of the Home Affairs Commission on Monday, 3 May 2021; - whereas the abovementioned interim judgment of the Court of Appeal could possibly provide important elements for the discussion of the above-mentioned pandemic law on Monday; - having regard to the possible importance of the abovementioned interim judgment and the fact that the Belgian Government is one of the parties at issue; Asks the Chamber of Representatives of the Belgian Government, and in particular the Minister for the Interior, Mrs Annelies Verlinden, to deliver the abovementioned interim judgment to the Chamber. A point of order was tabled by Mr. Peter De Roover and reads as follows: - having regard to the decision of the Court of First Instance of Brussels on 31 March 2021, which held that the Civil Security Act of 2007 and two other laws cannot serve as a basis for ministerial orders restricting the freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution at this time of the covid-19 pandemic; - having regard to the fact that the above-mentioned court has held that the principle of legality is violated because of the lack of predictability of the current working method and that the Belgian State must stop measures to combat coronavirus within 30 days under penalty of a penalty of EUR 5 000 per day of exceeding that deadline; - having regard to the fact that the Belgian State appealed the above-mentioned decision to the Brussels Court of Appeal; - having regard to the fact that the Brussels Court of Appeal recently ordered the reopening of the proceedings by interlocutory judgment in order to allow the parties concerned to produce additional arguments following Council of State Opinion 69.253/AG on the ministerial decree of 24 April 2021 amending the ministerial decree of 28 October 2020 on emergency measures to limit the spread of coronavirus; - Whereas consideration of the draft law on administrative police measures in an epidemic emergency, known as the Pandemic Act, is included in the agenda of the Committee of the Interior on Monday, 3 May 2021; - Whereas the above-mentioned interlocutory judgment of the Brussels Court of Appeal could provide important elements for the discussion of the said "pandemic" law next Monday; - having regard to the possible interest of the above-mentioned interlocutory judgment and to the fact that the Belgian Government is one of the parties in question; the House of Representatives requests the Belgian Government, and more specifically the Minister of the Interior, Annelies Verlinden, to transmit the above-mentioned interlocutory judgment to the House at this sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u94	Madam President, as we all know, we are currently discussing what is commonly referred to as "the pandemic law." We started that meeting yesterday. She'll be on her way next week. In the majority it has been said that we are open to as broad a discussion as possible. That is, of course, a minimum, given the size and significance of the pandemic law. Yesterday, the Minister introduced the draft. Two colleagues, from CDH and DéFI, have introduced their bill, which is linked to it. I would have done that a week earlier for the bill that we were the first to submit. Yesterday a colleague also dropped the date of 18 May. Of course, there's a connection to that pandemic bill. In my view, for the sake of clarity, this is such a thorough law that the agenda for its discussion should not be determined by one trial or sentence. Normally, we would have already received the appeal judgment tomorrow, Friday 30 April. That will not be the case, because an interim arrest has been dropped. With that interim judgment, the parties, including the Belgian State, with the Minister for the Interior, were asked to submit new arguments. The final decision will therefore be taken on 18 May, the date which is now being put forward as an important moment. In my view, it is of the utmost importance that we take note of that interim ruling when we discuss the pandemic law. I am not familiar with the content of it, as are my fellow Members. So I've been guessing about it, but that interim arrest might provide useful information in the current discussion. That is why we really need to know about it before we make a final decision on the pandemic law. I don't want to stretch my explanatory statement any longer than necessary. Whereas, in the light of all these facts, we ask the Minister for the Interior to inform us of the interim judgment. As a party concerned, it is in its possession. We ask that she deliver the interim judgment to the Chamber, in particular this sitting, so that we have sufficient time to include it in our preparations for Monday's discussions. I would like to thank you and my fellow Members for their support for our request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u95	Madam President, we have always been in favour of this, and we remain in favour of a very limited path with regard to the draft pandemic law. I've been in touch with the Minister. She has given me the answer I had also expected, in particular that she is prepared to provide a copy of that judgment. I propose that the services contact the cabinet and arrange the practical arrangements to obtain it as soon as possible. Madam President, I am not very strong in computer science, but I will try to deliver it to the clerk in the meantime, because it is on my computer. There's nothing secret about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u96	I would like to thank Mr Verherstraeten as the spokesman for the Minister for the Interior. The fact that my colleague is not so strong in computer science has just emerged. He asked me to deliver the invitation to vote to him, but he didn't find them in his mailbox. I helped him out of the trouble and, as a return to his service, I am sure he urged Minister Verlinden to accept my motion in a friendly manner, so that the strong span of Verherstraeten-De Roover, which yesterday was somewhat scratched, was completely restored. We would also like to thank the Minister for doing so on behalf of us, who has made this interim ruling helpful.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u97	We shall not vote on the motion, Mr De Roover, because the answer is acceptable to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u98	We'll get it. I trust Mr Verherstraeten with his word. If not, I will send you a new e-mail with incorrect information about the vote. Then my revenge will be sweet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u99	The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteurs are Mr Leysen and Mr Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thirteen institutions depend financially directly on the Chamber, which goes from the Court of Auditors itself to the Constitutional Court and the Human Rights Institute. In 2017, an analysis was already made by Ernst & Young. In 2018, the Court of Auditors made a number of recommendations for greater efficiency and synergy. This was discussed and picked up again at the beginning of this legislature by President Dewael, and meanwhile in the special committee Compatibility by President Tillieux. The conclusions raise the question of whether it is not at least useful to cluster a number of institutions which today all have their own statute, their own back office. It is also concluded that there should be a kind of shared service centre, that the statutes should be harmonised, the fleet, the interpreters and the translators. When the translators were discussed, the German-speaking Community was also discussed. I will therefore make that recommendation in German. Der Vorschlag der Kommission bestelt nur darin, sicherzustellen, dass die Dienste weniger Dritten nutzen, denn die Rechnung dafür ist hoch, aber dass sie auch die Diensten der Kammer nutzen. Es ist sledig dass nicht mehr alle Beschlüsse des Verfassungsgerichts auto übersetzt worden müssen, aber nur nor der Urteilstenor. That's the decisive part. I would like to add, personally, that during the discussion I called for this to be done with the necessary diligence. I know there are many competent people in the Chamber, but in such processes of change, where organisations are allowed to work together, it is best to identify a full-time, dedicated and, above all, motivating change manager. After all, the Chamber and its institutions are a house of tradition and customs, which sometimes prevail over efficiency and effectiveness. A change manager can ensure that implementation is done efficiently and quickly, because ultimately it is also an account that taxpayers have to pay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u101	Madam Chair, I would like to say that the conclusions that are being presented today – without Mr.Leysen's additions – are the result of remarkable work carried out by the services of the House. We have demonstrated our ability to address our problems, to provide concrete solutions with a defined work plan and timetable that we invite everyone to vote on. This is important at a time when there is an unfortunate tendency to resort to very costly outside consultations. In this case, we worked with our own staff – it should be stressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u102	Colleagues, on behalf of our House, I would also like to thank our services for the work they have done in a fairly short time. It is therefore possible to do good work, despite the workload that is ours. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. The vote on the recommendations will take place at a later stage. The vote on the recommendations will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u103	The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteurs are also our colleagues Leysen and Laaouej. They refer to their written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. The vote on the 2020 budget adjustment of the Supreme Council of Justice will take place at a later date. The vote on the 2020 budget adjustment of the Supreme Court of Justice will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u104	Madam Chair, for these successive inquiries, we have tabled plain and simple motions on which we will request an urgent vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u105	Thank you, I did receive them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u106	Madam President, Minister, I am sure you will agree with me that Belgium has an open economy, which makes us very dependent on exports, international trade and trade agreements that increase trade and exports for our country, and therefore more employment. Secretary of State De Bleeker, present here, knows better than anyone the importance of these trade agreements. No less than 1 in 3 jobs in Flanders depends on that export. International trade offers our country a lot of economic added value. After 20 years of negotiations, which certainly did not take one night of ice, an agreement was finally reached between the European Union on the one hand and the four Mercosur countries from South America on the other. This is primarily of geostrategic importance. This will give European companies a lead over American and Asian companies, as they will have easier access to the now freely closed local market. In this way, we are also preventing a shift from companies from that region to China. After all, if we do not enter into a trade agreement with them, China will be there as the chickens to do so. In addition, it is certainly also an opportunity to promote international standards such as those we know in the social field, in terms of sustainability, in terms of the environment and climate to those countries. The agreement is therefore a lever in many areas. In addition, it also offers a lot of commercial benefits, which goes without saying. I have already referred to job opportunities and to the fact that companies will have to pay less customs duties. This agreement will offer many opportunities for many different sectors of industry. This is well known to the car industry, but it also applies to the chemical sector, the pharmaceutical sector and the agro-food industry. The agreement also receives some criticism, particularly with regard to the agricultural hatch on beef, poultry and sugar. We must not look at agriculture as a whole, because, as has been said, the agri-food industry will benefit from it. Pork too, because that's not a lot to grow there. There are mainly beef, poultry and sugar concerns, but they are actually unjustified. After all, the agreement contains all kinds of protection clauses. It is said that we will be flooded with beef, poultry and sugar from those countries, but if we look at the way in which the tariff reductions will be achieved, it would be up to 1.2 percent of European consumption for each of these three categories. So it is certainly not possible to say that we will be flooded with this. By the way, we have heard the same thing in the context of CETA, the free trade agreement with Canada. We would then also be flooded with, for example, beef from Canada. President Macron warned of this, while he has been in operation for several years now, he has to conclude that this was not the case at all. As far as agriculture is concerned, the agreement also provides for a fund of EUR 1 billion to prevent market distortions. There will also be continuous monitoring and a safeguard clause. A second aspect that questions are asked about is sustainability. There is a separate chapter on sustainable development, which is also legally binding. It discusses all kinds of issues, such as the conservation and sustainable management of forests, the respect of workers' rights and the promotion of responsible business. Both Mercosur countries and the European Union continue to commit themselves to the implementation of the Paris Climate Agreement. It is no secret that President Bolsonaro, who is not immediately known as a supporter of climate action, would have long since left the Paris climate agreement without the negotiations on the Mercosur agreement. So far, however, he has not done so, thanks to the root of the Mercosur agreement. However, we admit that what is now in the agreement on sustainability is not enough. However, the Portuguese Presidency is currently negotiating an additional protocol to extend this section, for example as regards deforestation in the Amazon forest. That is what we support, because I think we really need to focus on it. On the basis of all these facts, we really see in this agreement a lever for all kinds of things, which I have listed. What's the alternative? China, for example, is an alternative, but in that case the sustainability aspects will not be addressed at all. The current state of affairs is the following. In the Committee on External Relations there are a number of resolutions pending concerning the agreement, both of majority parties and of opposition party Flemish Interest. Madam Minister, I have also asked for your position on the agreement on several occasions, the most recent time in January. You said at the time that Belgium will take a position, that the agreement will be submitted to the Council. At the European summit in May, the Portuguese Presidency will present a proposal on the additional protocol, so I think the time is right for Belgium to take a position. What strikes me, moreover, is that this government, in accordance with the clear commitment in the coalition agreement, is on the brink of Europe, in order to encourage European cooperation. Well, I think that Belgium now has a very good opportunity to underline the benefit and importance of European cooperation for both our businesses and our citizens. I have referred to job opportunities, but sustainability must also be promoted outside Europe. In reply to my questions, you yourself have repeatedly expressed your support for the new European trade policy, known as open strategic autonomy. The Portuguese Presidency will put a concrete proposal on the table. We think it is important to finally adopt a position. Madam Minister, what is the government's position on the Mercosur agreement? Does the government consider it necessary to reopen the negotiations completely? If not, is the government working for an additional protocol and what should it say if it does?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u107	Minister, several sectors in Belgium have already expressed their concern about the impact of the Mercosur Free Trade Agreement, an agreement between the EU and four South American countries, to be ratified by the EU Member States. In addition to a number of sectors in Belgium, including the sugar industry, livestock, beef and poultry sectors, several EU countries have already indicated that they do not wish to ratify the agreement as it stands. The impact of the agreement should not be underestimated. There is already an overproduction of sugar in Europe and a falling demand for and consumption of sugar. Additional imports of sugar and related products would put additional pressure on the sector, with all possible consequences, such as job losses. A similar story can be seen in the beef and poultry sector. Given the number of countries that do not want to ratify the agreement, it should be clear that the EU is not finished with Mercosur. As far as the agreement is concerned, it is not only messing around in the EU, but apparently also in the governments of this country. The Walloon Region has already called for the agreement not to be ratified and rejected. At the Flemish and federal level, however, it remains quite quiet. More than a year ago, the Flemish Interest Group tabled a motion for a resolution on the Mercosur agreement in committee. A few months ago, some parties of the majority also submitted proposals, after which hearings were held in committee. There, too, the various speakers pointed to the disastrous impact on a number of sectors. The fact that the discussion and the vote on the motions for resolutions were postponed in committee, despite the hearings and the fact that the information was available, shows that the majority parties do not want to take a decision on them and that the government is divided in this respect. Maybe one can settle the battle in a Twitter War? In any case, it is high time to clarify our businesses and take a stand. Does the government finally have a position on the Mercosur agreement? If so, we would like to know. Will the government's position take account of the concerns of the various sectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u108	Mrs Van Bossuyt, Mr Gilissen, thank you for the combined interplays, which allow me to repeat the Belgian Government's position on the free trade agreement with Mercosur countries. Indeed, much has been said about the agreement recently. It has also been criticised, at European level, but also at Belgian level. I fully share the view that trade agreements are very important for a small open economy like ours. We also have a very clear position on the relevant treaty and on trade policy in general. In line with the government agreement, we support an ambitious trade policy, which is an essential priority for Belgium, and support the European approach to establishing applicable and binding social and environmental standards. On the basis of the reading, we are not yet ready. Let's be clear. Indeed, we share many of the legitimate concerns expressed about this free trade agreement, in particular with regard to the non-binding and non-enforceable nature of the social standards and environmental standards contained in it. This creates the risk of social dumping and environmental dumping, which would not only harm the planet, but also our companies, which would face unfair competition. We cannot accept that. Faced with the new criticism of civil society, the European Parliament and certain Member States, including Belgium, the Commission has come to the conclusion that the agreement in its present form is simply not sufficient and that it is therefore essential that an additional commitment by Mercosur countries be attached to it. That is why the European Commission is currently engaged in new negotiations with Mercosur countries in order to obtain additional commitments. I would like to stress that this is not a reopening of the trade section of the agreement, which was concluded in June 2019, but an addition to it. Moreover, a reopening of the agreement is not requested by Mercosur countries either by the European Commission or by the other Member States. So that option is not on the table. I hear some say that we should simply reject the agreement without waiting to see what additional commitments the Commission can make. That is not the government's position. On the contrary, we believe that we should remain as involved in the current discussions as possible in order to try to restore the balance in the agreement, in line with the concerns of our society. We must be constructive in the debate and we must remain. That's my belief. Locking the door now would be a mistake in three ways. Firstly, it is a strategic mistake, because refusing to discuss it would mean that Belgium would be isolated from the European partners, whose vast majority would like to reach an agreement quickly. It would therefore prevent us from exerting any influence over the discussions, in order to express and defend our position. Next, it is a mistake about our ambitions in the area of sustainable trade. Indeed, reaching an agreement with Mercosur gives us the opportunity to have a concrete impact on the ground, as you said, Mrs Van Bossuyt. By simply stopping the talks, we would no longer have any negotiating power in the fight against deforestation, the fight against climate change or the promotion of social rights. Finally, it is an economic error. The crisis has once again demonstrated the importance of diversifying the supply chain. We know how crucial it is, for the recovery of our economy and for Europe, to be able to take advantage of the opening up of traditionally closed markets and to be one step ahead of other major players in Latin America, for example the United States and China. For all these reasons, and in line with the position taken during the DGE consultation on 10 March, Belgium has chosen to participate constructively in the debates, seeking alliances with other Member States that share our position and lobbying very actively with the Commission to ensure that our concerns are taken into account. In this respect, we consider it essential that all supplementary documents have a legal status equivalent to that of the agreement itself. This so-called protocol, whose enforceability and binding nature must be at the heart of it, must ensure that the entry into force of the trade agreement does not have a negative impact on deforestation and on the fight against global warming. We also call for additional measures to ensure respect for core labour standards. Our country also pays particular attention to the respect and follow-up of the commitments made. The protection of the sensitive agricultural sector, including the sugar and beef sectors, is also an important issue for Belgium. The fact that we are fully committed to the negotiations does not, of course, prejudge the position that Belgium will have to take at the end of the negotiations, i.e. once the agreement is formally submitted to the Council. We cannot take a stand until it is presented. No clear deadline has been set for this. We'll see about that. Since this is a mixed agreement, our position will be determined in consultation with the Regions and the Communities. I hope that the Communities and the regions will agree to defend a common position at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u109	Madam President, Madam Minister, thank you for your reply. I am pleased that the full reopening of the agreement is not an option at all. You also say that we need to restore balance in the agreement. The question is just how far this whole thing should go. That's the crux right now. For the N-VA it is already clear. We will always stand up for free trade and the sustainable growth of our prosperity through exports. For us this is very important because of the fact that so many jobs, so many families depend on it. Behind every job is also a family. You said that the agreement is important from an economic point of view. That's for sure. We're in a very big crisis right now. Everyone's looking forward to the relance after this crisis. This agreement can certainly be a means of contributing to that revival. In addition, the agreement is an opportunity to extend the sustainability that is so important to us in Europe beyond Europe. I'm glad you confirmed that. However, we must also be realistic. In Europe, we impose a lot of standards and standards on our families and our companies to reduce CO2 emissions. Ultimately, Europe is responsible for only 9% of global CO2 emissions worldwide. We have so many questions to ask our families and businesses here, but that is not going to address climate change and the problem. Here again we have a means of involving governments and governments on other continents in our story of tackling climate change. After all, what is the alternative? That is China, and if we have to negotiate with it, there will be a lot less about sustainability. We all agree on that. We have to look at how many coal power stations China still builds every week. You say that if the full agreement is there and since it is a mixed agreement, you will enter into consultation with the Communities. We are only in favour of this, as you know. I can already tell you that the Flemish Government is fully in favour of the Mercosur agreement, with an additional protocol. That is why I would like to talk about it now. That is where the crux lies and why the resolutions in the committee are being postponed from us over and over again, because you do not agree on them. I sincerely hope, Madam Minister, that the Liberals will show their liberal side. We can go as far as we want with regard to additional conditions, so that it will not ultimately be possible to sign the agreement. There we must retain some sense of reality. The alternative really won't be better. I sincerely hope that you will continue to push this forward, in the interests of our companies, in the interests of our citizens, but certainly also in the interests of the climate. We are tabling a motion for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u110	Madam Secretary, your answer did not reassure me. What are we going to say to the companies in the sectors affected by the Mercosur agreement? At a sugar refinery like in Tienen 4,000 farms supply. What clarity can we give them now? However, it is high time to give them clarity and prospects for the future, because many jobs depend on that too. We are talking about jobs that can be created by the Mercosur agreement, but I must make it clear that they can be created. At the moment there are a lot of jobs in the agricultural sector in Belgium, so better one job in hand than ten jobs in the air. If we go further with Mercosur and put further pressure on our sugar sector, it will even threaten our own food supply. If those sectors in Belgium were to fall, we would be dependent on food imports from abroad. Madam Secretary, the government excels in creating ambiguity and in letting things go. The differences between the different majority parties are increasing every day. With the regularity of the clock, the majority parties already roll on the street fighting, as it turned out this morning. It seems more and more that we in the government with a class of fighting toddlers are in a sort of Vivaldi muppet show and that difficult dossiers are preferably postponed and postponed as much as possible. As I said, it is high time for clarity. You have not reassured me with your answer, which is why we will table a motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u111	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Anneleen Van Bossuyt and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mrs Anneleen Van Bossuyt and Mr Erik Gilissen and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and of the Federal Cultural Institutions, - having regard to the policy paper of the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Self-employed, SMEs and agriculture, institutional reforms and democratic renewal, in which he states that the government's objective is to safeguard the interests of Belgian and European farmers, without closing the door to international trade; - having regard to the statements made by the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, SMEs and agriculture, institutional reforms and democratic renewal during the discussion of the policy paper on 7 December 2020, in which he stressed that: - more than 37,000 Belgian jobs depend on exports to Brazil Mercosur is Belgium's eighth trading partner outside the EU - the amount of the trade surplus for Belgium in respect of: Mercosur is EUR 1.3 billion - 1,640 Belgian companies export to Mercosur; - whereas one in three jobs in Flanders depends on exports; - having regard to the economic damage that our country could incur in failing to sign the Mercosur Agreement; - having regard to the fact that through this agreement European companies will gain a lead over American and Asian companies to enter a previously closed market; - having regard to the opportunity offered by this agreement to encourage Heads of State or Government in other continents to join us in the fight against climate change; asks the government - adopt a clear position in this discussion; - to disseminate appropriate information on this agreement as opposed to what is often the case now in terms of sustainability, agriculture or standards on, for example, food safety; - do not avoid the unique opportunity to conclude a trade agreement with these countries, otherwise we will not only give competitive benefits to countries such as China or the US, but also avoid the opportunity to pursue sustainable standards in Mercosur countries; - to see this agreement as a profit in terms of sustainability. Without this agreement, Brazil, for example, would have left the Paris climate agreement. Moreover, if Mercosur countries were to be pushed into China's hands, there would be much less focus on sustainability and the environment; - to sign the trade agreement with an additional protocol to increase sustainability requirements.' A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms. Anneleen Van Bossuyt and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mrs Anneleen Van Bossuyt and Mr Erik Gilissen and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and the Federal Cultural Institutions, - having regard to the general policy note of the Minister for the Middle Classes, the Independents, SMEs and Agriculture, the Institutional Reforms and the Democratic Renewal, in which it states that the government's objective is to defend the interests of Belgian and European farmers without closing the door to international trade; - having regard to the statements made by the Minister for Middle Classes, Independents, SMEs and Agriculture, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, during the discussion of his policy note on 7 December 2020, stressing that - more than 37 000 Belgian jobs depend on exports to Brazil - Mercosur is Belgium's 8th largest trading partner outside the European Union - the amount of the trade surplus for Belgium in respect of Mercosur amounts to EUR 1.3 billion - 1,640 Belgian companies export to Mercosur; Whereas one in three jobs in Flanders depends on exports; - in view of the economic damage that our country might suffer in the event of a non-signature of the agreement with Mercosur; - in view of the fact that this agreement will give European companies a step ahead of American and Asian companies to enter a market that has remained rather closed so far; - since this agreement offers the possibility of also encouraging Heads of State and Government from other continents to engage with us in the fight against climate change; asks the government - to adopt a clear position in this debate; - to disseminate correct information about this agreement in contrast to what is often being done in terms of sustainability, agriculture or food security standards, for example; - not to miss this unique opportunity to enter into a trade agreement with the countries in question, since otherwise we would not only give competitive advantages to countries such as China or the United States, but would also lose the opportunity to move towards sustainable standards also in Mercosur countries; - consider this agreement to be beneficial in terms of sustainability. Without this agreement, for example, Brazil would have withdrawn from the Paris Climate Agreement. If the Mercosur countries were, moreover, pushed into China's hands, much less attention will be paid to sustainability and the environment; - to sign the free trade agreement with an additional protocol in order to extend the sustainability requirements." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Erik Gilissen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mrs Anneleen Van Bossuyt and Mr Erik Gilissen and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and of the Federal Cultural Institutions, - having regard to the concerns of various sectors regarding the impact of the Mercosur Free Trade Agreement; - having regard to the statements made by several speakers at hearings on the Mercosur Free Trade Agreement in the External Relations Commission; - in view of the continuing uncertainty about the government's position on the Mercosur Free Trade Agreement; asks the government - taking into account the well-founded concerns of various sectors regarding the impact of this agreement on these sectors when adopting a position on the Mercosur Free Trade Agreement; - to clarify as soon as possible the government's position on the Mercosur Free Trade Agreement.' A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Erik Gilissen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mrs Anneleen Van Bossuyt and Mr Erik Gilissen and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and the Federal Cultural Institutions, - in view of the concerns expressed by different sectors regarding the impact of the free trade agreement with Mercosur; - having regard to the presentations made by various speakers during hearings in the Committee on External Relations on the free trade agreement with Mercosur; - in view of the continuing lack of clarity on the Government's position on the free trade agreement with Mercosur; asks the government - when taking a position on the free trade agreement with Mercosur, take into account the legitimate concerns expressed by different sectors regarding the impact of the agreement on these sectors; - to clarify as soon as possible the Government's position on the free trade agreement with Mercosur." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Ms Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gilles Vanden Burre et Servais Verherstraeten. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u112	Madam President, does the Minister not attend the interview addressed to her?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u113	The Minister is coming. (Minister Verlinden enters the hemisphere)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u114	Madam Minister, I am not going to start again here about the many measures that have already been taken and about how difficult we are all talking about. That is being said here every week and we know it by now. You will undoubtedly know the English expression leading by example, which corresponds to 'wake words, stretch examples'. I'm afraid you were advised wrong last week when you announced your participation in a training session for prospective police officers via TV Oost and Twitter. Under normal circumstances, it would be a pleasure for you to be close to the field of work. My own son once attended that training and I can imagine that it would be encouraged if a minister were to offer symbolic support through her presence. Don't get me wrong, something like this also offers the opportunity to talk to the young people of the police force and to hear about it in informal circumstances. A sports uniform can then help to overcome the barrier, which is still there. Then, of course, a politician or politician makes that public and that sounds sympathetic. That's nothing to take offense about. On the contrary, it's part of the job. I also hear that you are trying to keep your finger on the wrist on many aspects of what is happening on the field of work. It's a pleasure for you. In these circumstances, Madam Secretary, that was inappropriate. You just condemned the plans for La Boum 2. I've done some action before, and it does require a little creativity to get attention. Imagine saying that this is not about La Boum 2 but about beep test 2 in Ter Kamenbos: a spruce back and forth in the Ter Kamenbos, touch a blade of grass and then go back to the other side and touch a tree. In this way show that one can meet in the open in a cozy, sporty way. That's another big difference from what you've done. You did that in a locked room. You'll know your MBs well. Perhaps you will come back later to tell us which hole you found in that MB to show that, legally speaking, you did act correctly. I spoke to a couple of lawyers. They didn't think it was a hole, but I'm sure you're more creative in that area. For public opinion, however, it is bizarre and remarkable that their children should not be allowed to have indoor sports. Over the age of 12, they're supposed to do it with a very controlled mouth mask. There's a duty to mask the mouth. In other areas, too, the government is and in particular you are the spokesman for a very strict line of compliance, which can certainly be defended if the measures are correct, justified and substantiated. Don't get me wrong, but you are also advocating this strict line of compliance when it comes to, for example, sitting at the window on the train and the breach with the neighbours. It is then fortunate that the neighbors live in an open building so that one can reach the garden. Some sort of restriction was introduced on stool release, if I may put it that way. Such matters seem a little strange to public opinion and make it difficult to determine when public safety is compromised, or when the government exaggerates. By the way, a leading Dutch expert has investigated the impact of the night clock on corona. I have asked for this for a long time, but you failed to answer it. The impact, according to the Dutch expert, is non-existent, because he saw no impact of the introduction of the night clock on the figures. One study is not a study, I agree, but the position is for the time being one-zero in the undermining of whether the night clock, a very big intervention on freedom, makes sense in the fight against corona, or whether it is rather symbolic. Recently, a leading member of the government justified the curfew by stating that it facilitates enforcement. I therefore propose that we do not over-screw fundamental rights in order to enforce them. I've asked you about undermining the rule of the night clock, but I'm still waiting for an answer. Against that background, I think you have been advised badly to give that signal. You will not be unaware that at the moment we politicians do not have a fantastic name in public opinion, especially if there is only a hint of an impression that there are some privileges, where politicians like a little more than others. That impression was created at the New Year's reception of Open Vld, a similar incident, and that impression has now been fed again by you. I regret this for the office, profession or occupation that brings us together here, but above all for the credibility of enforcing the rules on the part of the people, for which, as you know, the basis of acceptance is staggering and crumbling. Without expecting politicians to be more holy than the Pope, I expect a politician to be at least as holy as any pastor and underpastor. That is a criterion that we can impose on ourselves. That is why I am offering you the opportunity, Madam Minister, to give you a few words and explanations. I wouldn't think it advisable for you to come here and explain what hole you found in the ministerial decision. Not every citizen has the legal qualities you have or services that advise him in order to extend the rules to the utmost. The ordinary citizen does not have these resources. He just sees you do sports without a mouth mask inside. Point on the line. I do not expect you to say in your reply that you have suddenly discovered that these ministerial decisions are illegal and that you must not comply with them. That might be an interesting answer, but I don't expect that. I also hope that you are not hiding behind subtleties, but that you are simply saying here that it was a wrong assessment, that you have given an impression there that was wrong and that, as has been shown by the many reactions, you have indeed given the impression to the public that you did not want to create. I look forward to the answer to my question. How do you intend to act on that beep test to justify public opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u115	Madam Minister, in the face of the health crisis, failing to put in place a real health policy to control the virus and to provide conditions for life to remain viable for the citizens, you have opted for a repressive policy, and even a very repressive one. We are talking about fines of at least 250 euros, fines that do not take into account the income of citizens: no matter how much you earn, you pay the same thing. And by the way, you're planning to increase the amount of these fines in your Pandemia bill. We're talking curfew, which limits our freedom to come and go, which has a huge impact on our social life. We are talking about measures that are necessary, at least that use the tap of our social life and privacy, and that have a significant impact not only on our lives, but also on the psychology of our fellow citizens. Beyond freedoms, you also have a repressive policy in terms of freedom of expression and social protest. We see that the framework that you have defined has allowed some mayors to ban rallies, whether political or social. They rely on the measures put in place to do so. For example, the mayors of Turnhout, Huy and Aerschot, who decided to ban the May 1st rallies organised at the initiative of the PTB. Under pressure, they had to reverse their decision. In any case, this gives us a view of the consequences of this repressive policy, which mainly tackles the lever of freedoms and social life. On the other hand, while 40% of contamination is known to occur in companies, measures are not available. Workers are obliged to strike. In Jupille, for example, workers had to strike for a week to enforce the measures. The gyms, on the other hand, are dangerous. You shut them down. For the past six months, the sports workers, the self-employed who run these halls, have been trying to survive. They were told that the spread of the virus was strong in their rooms. As a result, they followed the recommendations and closed. What did we see this weekend? We saw you participate in a sports session in a closed room, without a mask. I can understand that police officers do this test because they need it as part of their training. But why do you do it? The icing on the cake is that you communicate it on social media. You don't even realize the seriousness of this act. You're forcing people to stay at home. They're nailed to their couch and can't play sports. And, you, you do exactly the opposite! Minister, as has already been said, people's support is needed to deal with the pandemic, to ensure that the rules are respected. I would like to give you a small piece of advice that may help you strengthen this commitment, namely, that those who enact the rules start by respecting them themselves before imposing them on others.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u116	Madam Secretary, last Saturday, the federal police in Ghent organized a practice session for the sports trial that candidate police officers have to take during the selections. You were there, because you were there, and I see that something different than Mr De Roover saw in it was an ideal moment of photography to put you back in the picture, as is happening more and more often. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. We also believe that these exercises and selection tests should certainly take place for the police, but what is the added value of your presence and participation in such selection tests, and even without a mouth mask, is the question. More than that, because of your participation, which is far from essential, you are actually violating your own corona rules, which you have been imposing on the people for more than a year now in the form of sometimes very questionable ministerial decisions. Mr De Roover has already listed a number of them, so I do not need to repeat them. Because of your participation, you laugh at the hundreds of thousands of people who want to play indoor sports again. You are laughing at the thousands of people who work in sports halls and fitness clubs and who have been out of work for months and are trying to follow the rules. I don't need five minutes to keep my conversation and I don't need five minutes to ask some essential questions. Together with Mr De Roover and Mr Boukili, but also with Flemish MEP Els Ampe van Open Vld and with many citizens in this country, I ask you if you considered your presence in these sports trials essential. Do you think that your presence without a mouth mask and the distribution of photos is a good signal to the people who have been following the rules for over a year? Do you not think that you owe an apology to the hundreds of thousands of people who want to play indoor sports, but cannot do so because of the ministerial decisions you have issued?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the police are an essential part of our security apparatus. It is no secret that attracting new policemen is fundamental in order to safeguard a strong police force, even in the future. That is why the government has decided to recruit 1,600 new police officers every year during the current legislature. I am glad that virtually everyone agrees with me today that there is a need for these additional and permanent recruitments to the police. In the Committee on the Interior, too, I have answered some 30 questions on this matter over the past few months, which, I believe, rightly demonstrates the importance of the subject and of recruitment. In my capacity as Minister of the Interior, I am competent and responsible for the police and therefore also for recruiting sufficient policemen. The local police are already an attractive employer today. Nevertheless, it is not an easy task to be able to address and recruit 1,600 new police officers every year. Despite all the covids, it is important to be able to guarantee the influx of new recruits in 2021 and thus also to continue and organise the selection tests. I also note that the interplays do not question them today. That is why I would like to seize every opportunity, and I regard this as part of my responsibility to highlight a job with the police and also to support recruitment. By the way, I invite you to continue to do so across all party boundaries. After all, the police deserve that. To achieve that goal of 1,600 policemen and new aspirants, the federal police organises selection tests. To highlight her efforts, I was actively present at a physical trial exercise session on request and at the invitation of the management of the recruitment and selection department of the federal police last Saturday 24 April 2021. Moreover, it is not unique that policy makers or directors are present at activities. Many other policy makers also keep in touch with their services due to their presence on the ground. For the sake of clarity, the physical test of the federal police is not a recreational sport or sports training but a necessary part of the recruitment process. Mr De Roover, when you speak of privilege, I challenge you to take the test for seven minutes. You will then find that this is not a privilege, but indeed a test test. The event I participated in was organized anyway by the federal police, as was the case several times in recent months, precisely because of the importance of recruitment. By participating in this physical test, I wanted to get an idea of the organisation of these selection tests and the precautions taken to ensure that they were carried out in accordance with the health instructions. I first inquired about this and, last Saturday, I was able to see that the event had taken place safely. I want to thank the federal police for that. The normal physical test, which consists of a functional course dotted with obstacles, and a force test, was temporarily replaced by the light test or beep test. All other possible precautions shall be taken to ensure that the test is carried out in accordance with current health requirements. Mr De Roover, your comparison of those tests with La Boum 2 really does not make any sense. Compare police selection tests with walking between two trees and then giving a blade of grass, is hallucinating and makes a caricature of the seriousness of the selection tests with which the federal police tries to recruit aspirants. For other health measures, the event is organised with a maximum of ten candidates per session in order to keep a sufficient distance between the participants. Hydro-alcoholic gel is planned on site. The gym is permanently ventilated and the chairs and equipment are thoroughly disinfected between each session. The mask must be worn at any time except during the test, which lasts up to eight minutes. These instructions do not endanger the health of others. Of course, I understand that operators of sports halls, which unfortunately have been closed for a long time and users of these sports halls are still disappointed today. I sincerely regret that I have to tell them that there is no better news to be delivered today and that we cannot yet announce a date when these sports halls will be reopened. I too am sorry, because I am also a user of those indoor sports halls. I also understand that they have questions about the use of a sports hall by the police, the police and for the selection test following the photos that were distributed from the selection test. The photos do not show the context in which these photos were taken. It is also not shown that this was a selection test that lasts only eight minutes and is therefore not comparable to a sports session. So I can also understand the displeasure that the operators of these sports halls and all the other users still have today, as well as many other people who are not yet able to carry on their activities today. Unfortunately, the sanitary situation does not yet allow this. The distinction we make between different types of activities and different types of activities is not just to make life difficult for people, but we make it on the basis of scientific advice and on the basis of the advice we get from the experts. Mr De Roover, all the measures taken, both curfew and all the other measures relating to meetings, are decided in the Consultation Committee, in which all the governments participate, including the Flemish Prime Minister, on the basis of the opinions we take. If you have any comments on these rules, there are probably other channels of communication available to you in which you can express those grievances. They may not be on the OCC's table. It is clear that this corona crisis is a major stress test for society as a whole. However, I am convinced that the best way to cope with this stress test is to try to understand each other rather than to condemn each other immediately on the basis of certain information. This is true in the Dorpsstraat, but much more so for the Wetstraat.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u118	Madam Secretary, you have not grasped the opportunity, because you have tried to explain why this is and can be done in accordance with the rules. Then how far are you from Dorpsstraat? You have shown here that you apparently function in an ivory tower; I'm sorry. You haven't seen your privileges. You say you were invited, but that's not really an argument. You say you've had a check on whether everything is happening under strict conditions, and it's been found safe. However, walking the streets at night is not unhealthy either, and whoever does that doesn't put anyone at risk. You have clearly confirmed the impression that the rules apply differently to you than to anyone else. Apparently, you've issued some sort of class ministerial decision. Those who are able to find the holes may be more than those who can't. You say that my comparison with La Boum is a caricature, and that is true, of course, as I said myself. The organizers of an action make caricatures. You gave them a chance to use it on a saucer. It is true that it is not intellectually correct to call that beep test 2, but for few activists intellectual correction is their first action point. You said the police are essential, and that's true. You said that the training of the police is essential, and that is also true. It is not true, however, that at that time your presence comes even close to essential; even if you want to give that impression. We are therefore tabling a motion that does show empathy with, for example, the operators of closed indoor sports centres, but also with its users, the athletes. These young people have not been able to use them for a long time. In our motion, we refer to the Royal Decree stating that sports halls and sports facilities are only open to groups of children up to and including 12 years of age, in the context of school or extracurricular activities of compulsory education, sports activities, internships and camps organised or permitted by the local government for persons up to and including 18 years of age, subject to the rules provided for in Article 18, training of professional athletes, professional competitions and activities other than sports activities to the extent that they are admitted in accordance with the provisions of this Decision and the applicable protocols. It also says that covering the mouth and nose with a mouth mask and wearing other personal protective equipment is always highly recommended. It shall be used in establishments if the rules of social discrimination cannot be complied with because of the nature of the activity carried on. In the meantime, I have seen that the role of Minister of the Interior as an exception to the rules is provided for. We ask the government, you as well as your colleagues, to comply with the freedom-limiting measures that you impose on the people themselves and to set an example in them. We ask the government to recognise that incidents such as a mouth-maskless participation in an indoor beep test for political candidates is an inappropriate activity for a Minister of the Interior when there is a health crisis, given the ministerial decision. We also ask the government to apologize to the people, who have been deemed to live for more than a year in accordance with the letter of this ministerial decision and the previous versions. Madam Secretary, it's possible I won't last another beep test for eight minutes. Mr De Block gives the impression that she can, but that is not the point of course. I do not want to question your sporting abilities either, because they are not the issue here. The point is that you have given the public the wrong impression and that you have not been able to offer appropriate apologies for this. I deeply regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u119	Minister, you said you understood the discontent. But I don't think you understand that. I think you're completely out of step with the situation. If you understood a tenth of the anger of people and what they are experiencing through your measures, the least you could do would be to apologize and not justify your participation in this training. This exercise is important for police training but it is not important for you. If you tell us that there is a risk of contamination in sports halls and that you are taking steps to close these halls, then your presence represents a risk of contamination. If you tell us that it is possible to put in place conditions for the sport to be carried out safely, why is this possible for you and not for people? I used to practice in the hall before they were closed. During the first definisation, the sports halls were reopened and certain measures (wearing mask, hydro-alcoholic gel, distancing) had to be respected. We respected them! What you justified here is exactly what we were doing in the gyms! Yet you thought it useful to shut them down. Madam Minister, if this is not proof of double standards, I do not know what it is! If this is not further proof of the disconnection of the political world from the population, I do not know what it is. You come here, with confidence, to justify this activity as if there was nothing to blame you for. No, minister, you don't understand people's anger because you haven't apologized to people who haven't had sports for months. You justified your actions by saying that they were based on scientific advice. Yet that is not what the court says. I take the example of Mr.Dujardin who did a concert in front of 15 people in a church, which is why he was punished. The Court did, however, agree: "The Court notes that the State does not give any scientific arguments to justify prohibiting Mr. Dujardin from giving his concerts and dismisses the application of the ministerial decree." According to justice, therefore, you do not deliver any scientific arguments. Do you find that safety is best ensured in a gym with ten people or on the street by walking alone after 10 p.m.? What is the scientific basis for your answer? Madam Minister, I have also tabled a motion, not least in solidarity with the sports workers, but also in opposition to the repressive measures you have taken and the consequences they bring. I am thinking in particular of the authoritarian drifts that they may have and the ban on rallies, such as those of 1 May. On that day, the PTB was banned from gathering by the mayors of three communes. I also wanted to table a motion for social expression and political expression to be allowed, and for covid not to be a tool or instrument to muzzle social protest against repressive and ineffective policy in the face of the most serious health crisis ever experienced. While this crisis has been going on for more than a year, you still have not understood that it is necessary to proceed differently and you are pursuing the same policy that does not work. As I have already said several times - and I will repeat as much as necessary - your policy is repressive, serious in terms of restricting our freedoms while being ineffective in the face of the virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u120	Madam Secretary, I had hoped that you would at least admit that your presence there left a completely wrong impression of what you call the people of the village street. It's like your statements about the village street and the Wetstraat, which you're wearing. The many angry reactions that were there, and which are still there, show that you, as a minister and as a man of the Rue de la Loi, have an exemplary role, just for the people of the Dorpsstraat. You don't seem to see that. Madam Secretary, it is quite clear to me: you like challenges. You even challenged Mr De Roover to a test today. I am glad that you have not challenged me, because I would certainly not make it from Mr De Roover. I would also like to refer to your challenge to the youth, on April 2, in your open letter. Let me quote: "The end is now really in sight; invent a challenge and motivate each other." That was your first challenge a few weeks ago. Well, Madam Secretary, I'll give you a new challenge: observe your own measures as long as possible. Hang in there and give me an example.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u121	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Peter De Roover and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interviews of Mr Peter De Roover, Mr Nabil Boukili and Mr Ortwin Depootere and the response of the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to your tweet of Saturday 24 April in which the Minister of the Interior shows off her mouth maskless participation in a beep test that serves as a selection test for prospective police officers; [[- having regard to the fact that the participation was situated in a sports hall which apparently did not comply with Article 8, §1 (2), 10° and Article 8 (3), 3° of the Ministerial Decree of 28 October 2020 (as amended by the decision of 27 April 2020) which clearly states that "sport venues and facilities are open only for: groups of children up to and including 12 years of age in the framework of school or extra-school activities of compulsory education; sports activities, placements and camps organised or admitted by the local authorities for persons up to and including 18 years of age, subject to the rules laid down in Article 18; training of professional athletes; professional competitions; activities other than sports activities, in so far as they are permitted under the provisions of this Decision and the applicable protocols." and "[that at the above establishments] the following minimum rules must be complied with: (...) 3° covering the mouth and nose with a mouth mask and wearing other personal protective equipment are always highly recommended in the establishment, and are used there if the rules of social distancing cannot be complied with due to the nature of the activity exercised, without prejudice to Article 25.';]] - noting that Article 25 of the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 specifies that this oral mask obligation applies only to children over 12 years of age; - noting that the Minister for the Interior appears not to fall within one of the above categories of Article 8 (1) (2) of the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020; - noting that the Minister for the Interior also appears to have ignored the strong recommendation to wear a mouth mask in such a gym or gym as a result of Article 8 (3), 3° of that same ministerial decision; - whereas this seems to be a luxury granted to itself by the Minister of the Interior, unlike the majority of the population (over 12 years) from whom this luxury has been deprived since 28 October 2020 on the basis of a ministerial decision signed by herself; - noting that this incident appears to be much more significant than communicated by the Minister's spokesman; asks the government - to comply with the same freedom-limiting measures it imposes on the population and, moreover, to include its role as a model; - recognise that incidents such as a mouth-maskless participation in an indoor beep test of political candidates is an inappropriate activity for a Minister of the Interior when a health crisis rages, having regard to the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 prohibiting the same activity for the ordinary population; - apologize to this population, which has been deemed to live for more than a year in accordance with the letter of this Ministerial Decree (and its previous versions)." A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr. Peter De Roover and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Peter De Roover, Nabil Boukili et Ortwin Depootere and the response of the Minister of the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - in view of the tweet of Saturday, 24 April, in which the Minister of the Interior spreads her unmasked participation in a Léger test, which was part of the tests for the selection of police aspirants; [[- having regard to the fact that this participation took place in a sports hall without apparently complying with Article 8, paragraph 1, paragraph 2, 10° and Article 8, paragraph 3, 3° of the Ministerial Decree of 28 October 2020 (as amended by the Decree of 27 April 2020), which explicitly states that "sport halls and sports facilities shall be open only for: the reception of groups of children up to the age of 12 years completed, in the framework of the school and non-formal activities of compulsory education; the reception of sports activities, internships and sports camps organised or authorized by local authorities for persons up to the age of 18 years completed, in compliance with the rules laid down in Article 18; the training of professional sportsmen; professional competitions; activities other than sports activities, provided that they are authorized by the provisions of this Decree and the applicable protocols "and" (that in the above-mentioned institutions) the following minimum rules must be respected: (...) 3° cover the mouth and nose with a mask and the wearing of other means of personal protection, are at all times not in conformity with the provisions of this Decree and the applicable protocols "and" (that in the above-mentioned institutions) the following minimum rules must be complied with: (...) 3° cover the mouth and nose with a mask and the wearing of other means of personal protection shall not be used in the conditions of personal protection, and the nature, are not in force without being in force in force in the rules, and in force, and in force.";]] - Noting that article 25 of the Ministerial Decree of 28 October 2020 specifies that the compulsory wearing of the mask only concerns children over the age of 12 years; - noting that the Minister of the Interior does not appear to belong to any of the aforementioned categories in Article 8, paragraph 1, paragraph 2, 10° of the Ministerial Decree of 28 October 2020; - pointing out that the Minister of the Interior seems, moreover, to have ignored the strong recommendation, arising from Article 8, paragraph 3, 3 of the same Ministerial Order, to wear a mask in such a gym or sports infrastructure; - Whereas the Minister of the Interior seems to give himself this luxury, unlike the majority of the population (over 12 years old) who has been deprived of it since 28 October 2020 on the basis of a ministerial decree signed by him; - noting that the incident appears to be far more serious than the Minister's spokesman had suggested; asks the government - to respect the measures restricting freedom which it imposes on the population and to take on its role as an example; - to admit that incidents such as participation without a mouth mask, in a gym, in a Léger test organised for police aspirants is an inappropriate activity for a Minister of the Interior while a health crisis is raging, in view of the ministerial decree of 28 October 2020 which prohibits the same activity for the ordinary population; - to apologise to the said population who were supposed to live for more than a year in accordance with the above-mentioned ministerial decree (and its earlier versions)." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interviews of Mr Peter De Roover, Mr Nabil Boukili and Mr Ortwin Depootere and the response of the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - whereas several mayors of our country have refused to authorise events following 1 May; - whereas these events would be organised in accordance with current health measures; - whereas 1 May is the Labor Day, a traditional celebration of the workers, celebrating the achievements of the social struggle of the workers' movement; - whereas the Court regrets that double standards are applied in the application of the corona measures, and that the Minister of the Interior has once again demonstrated this by participating in an indoor sport test without a mouth mask; advises the government express its support for the authorisation of social events and events which comply with the health rules and call on the mayors to ensure that such authorisation is granted effectively." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Peter De Roover, Nabil Boukili et Ortwin Depootere and the response of the Minister of the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - Whereas several mayors of the country have refused to authorise events organised on the occasion of 1 May; - Whereas these events met the health standards in force; - Considering that May 1st is a traditional festival for workers, which celebrates the victories won by the social struggle of the workers' movement; - Considering that the Chamber deplores the double standards applied in the application of the Corona measures, the Minister of the Interior having again shown an example by participating in indoor sports training without masks; recommends to the Government to vote in favour of the authorisation of social events and events that comply with the health standards in force and to call on the mayors to ensure the application of these authorizations." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Ms Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gilles Vanden Burre et Servais Verherstraeten. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u122	Madam President, you announced at the first interplay that the vote on the motion would take place at the end of the sitting. I assume that is also true of the last converged interplays. As far as is necessary, I would ask you to vote on the motion for a resolution following these discussions in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u123	Madam President, Minister, tomorrow the World Trade Organisation will meet for an important meeting with one very important item on the agenda: will the patents on the covid vaccine be lifted or not? Today we are asking what the Belgian Government's position will be on this matter. Will our government support the proposal to lift the patents so that more vaccines can be produced more quickly and we can put an end to the pandemic more quickly or will we remain silent? Madam Secretary, at the beginning of this week we heard your views on television. You said that you are in favour of lifting the patents in order to help the poorer countries, and you also said that that is the government's position. Your words weren't cold yet or the two Liberal Party presidents blew you back. What is the government's position? This discussion is too important to just bicker about in the Wetstraat. We want a clear signal. Moreover, the whole world is watching tomorrow's meeting. Over the last few days, we have seen horrible images from India and Brazil. As in a true nightmare the virus rages and after a year there are still tens of thousands of victims a day. The images of people who have to join hospitals, who lack oxygen, remain burned on our retina. There are even too few cemeteries. It would be criminal to just sit here and watch without reacting. However, there is also something else: although the virus is raging, we are not at the same point as last year. What is different is that there is a solution, including the vaccine against the covidvirus. It is technically perfectly possible to produce more vaccines. Today, less than half of global production capacity is used and companies around the world are ready to produce vaccines: from Europe to South Africa, Bangladesh, India and Canada. Once they get the green light, they can make millions of extra vaccines roll off the tape in a few months. That would be good for people, for health and for the economy. Yet it is not happening for the time being, because there is one sector that is in conflict: the pharmaceutical sector with its shareholders. Colleagues, exactly a year ago we stood here and predicted that the pharmaceutical companies would refuse to give up their patent. It's come true, too. As a result, too few vaccines are produced in Europe and worldwide. That is really the cynicism of capitalism: the solution exists, but it is in the hands of a handful of pharmaceutical companies that refuse to share knowledge, because they prefer to make a profit on the back of all those sick people. The Western governments stand by and look at it. But more and more people don't take this situation anymore and they're right. On the one hand, the vaccine is ours. We've paid for it several times. As a society, we have taken all the risks and invested a lot of public money. How will it be explained that the vaccine itself remains in private hands? Exactly a year ago we stood here in the Chamber with a resolution to ensure that the vaccine would be available to everyone and would not be covered by a patent. That resolution here was not supported by anyone at the time. But things are moving. That's the power of a good idea, especially when it comes from the PVDA. A year ago, we were the first to come here with our proposal to lift the patents. It sounded like we were doing doom thinking, but today more and more people are supporting it. We've moved beacons. It is not only the strength of our proposal, but also the pressure from the bottom up. Hundreds of organisations, NGOs, social movements, health insurance, trade unions and activists are campaigning today for the lifting of patents. More than 165,000 signatures have already been collected for the European Citizens' Initiative No profit on pandemics. Politics is also moving. We all remember what Mrs Rutten said a few months ago. Recently there was a very long list of former Heads of State, prominent Nobel Prize winners and also some former servants of the Chamber, such as Mr Leterme and Mr De Croo senior. At the beginning of this week, Mrs. Kitir, there was your verdict. You showed yourself to be in favour. Mrs Almaci van Groen also confirmed her position. This morning we read that Mr Coens of CD&V is also seriously considering it. Under pressure, things change, and that's a good thing. Tomorrow, Minister, there will be an important meeting within the World Trade Organization (WTO). Belgium has a unique chance to vote for the lifting of the patent for the vaccine against coronavirus. For months now, the WTO table has included a proposal by India and South Africa, supported by hundreds of countries, including the poorest, to lift patents. However, the United States and Europe are blocking this proposal for the time being. And it is sometimes the same policies that, with their hands on their hearts, show their solidarity in the face of the explosion of the pandemic in India, but which systematically oppose any progress on this subject. This is hypocrisy, and we can't accept it anymore. It is time to put an end to this cynicism, and I know that it is possible, as a country, not to put ourselves behind Europe but to ask for a point of view from our country. Tomorrow, the choice will be clear: will Belgium take a position on the lifting of patents or not? Will it make the choice of profit for some or health for all?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u124	Madam President, Minister, unfortunately we have not yet got rid of the pandemic, but there is a glimmer of light at the end of the tunnel. An important reason for that light at the end of the tunnel are the vaccines. Everyone may agree on that. It's the vaccines that protect us from the virus. Everyone also agrees that the speed at which the vaccines came is very high. Normally, the development of a vaccine takes years. It is thanks to the competition and the free market that the pace at which the vaccine has now been developed or even several vaccines have been developed was so fast. Companies often invest for years, take big risks and make expensive investments to do research that often leads to nothing. Nevertheless, they take that risk because they know that, when they have found an effective medicine, they get the patent on it. Reference has already been made to the fact that, by the end of 2020, countries, in particular India and South Africa, have taken the initiative to lift the patent on vaccines and, in other words, to remove the intellectual property of the companies concerned. Let me be very clear before I go on. Our group certainly agrees that everyone in the world will be able to obtain a vaccine. It is very important that we now show our best international solidarity. We certainly have to do that. However, the question is whether we are doing so by opening up the patents. Will that be the answer? We don't think that's the answer. I understand that Minister Wilmès is not in favour of opening that up either. The European Commission also states that there are other options than the opening up of patents to ensure that everyone will receive the vaccine. The problem lies not so much in intellectual property but in the shortage of vaccines. That can be solved in other ways than by opening the patents. This could be done, for example, by increased cooperation between producers and licensees. In this way, vaccines can be produced in more places, without the intellectual property of those companies being removed by lifting those patents. As Mrs Merckx said, the discussion continues. Recently, there was the letter to President Biden, signed by several Heads of Government and former Heads of Government. We also heard your personal opinion, but your words were not yet cold or Georges-Louis Bouchez was there as the chickens to say that the lifting of the patents is certainly not the choice of the Belgian Government. Madam Secretary, what position will the Belgian Government defend in this regard? If you think the removal of patents is a good idea, how will you ensure that in the future, if we face a new pandemic or other public health challenges, companies will still make the necessary investments and take the risk of conducting an investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u125	The world was never focused on that much production at so little time. Suddenly we had to produce a lot of the same, namely vaccines that keep us all healthy and protect us from the virus and give us our freedom again. This requires an enormous amount, not only for production, but also for capacity, or in other words the space and means to do so. In the West, that's already a problem. We have been able to see that in the past few months, but in many other places in the world that is a bigger problem. That's no one's fault, but it's a consequence of the system. Distribution is lagging behind, both due to poor production, and purchasing opportunities from countries. The system that normally works doesn't work right now. We must ask ourselves whether this is a human situation. Can we afford this system not to work? Then the answer is very simple, and you also endorse that answer. The answer is that we cannot afford that for the simple reason that we will not be safe until everyone is safe, when everyone is injected with that vaccine. That is in everyone's interest, also in our own interest. Then we can ask ourselves how this is done as quickly as possible. How will everyone be safe as soon as possible so that we too in our country are safe? That is the challenge we face. The Belgian Government's objective is therefore crystal clear: to give poorer countries access to vaccines and production capacity as quickly as possible without unnecessarily distorting the market. It's not the first time I've said here that we won't be safe until everyone's safe. The idea that when we're vaccinated here on our island, we've been relieved of this pandemic is completely out of date. Today, more than 80% of the recordings in our hospitals are caused by the British variant. The Brazilian variant is making its advance and the Indian mutation has already been detected here. The virus has no boundaries. Without sufficient global vaccination, we will not be able to reduce this pandemic. Solidarity is therefore the only way out, in Belgium, but also worldwide. We have to admit that the world was not prepared for this kind of crisis, not in terms of plumbing, nor in terms of the production and fair distribution of vaccines. scaling up that global production is an extremely technical and difficult logistical exercise. Since the first syringe, it's taken us 143 days to vaccinate 1 billion people. There are 7.8 billion people and some vaccines require multiple doses. You do the math. The classic way in which we produce vaccines is not enough today to meet the needs. In addition, the vaccines available are distributed unevenly. Forty percent of the covid vaccines that are administered worldwide have gone to 27 rich countries, accounting for 11% of the world's population. The countries where the 11 % poorest people live have received 1.6 % of vaccines. The countries with the highest incomes vaccinate 25 times faster than the countries with the lowest incomes. COVAX, the mechanism to ensure solidarity with developing countries, is today facing a shortage of supply under the Indian export ban. COVAX therefore had to announce to 59 countries this week that it cannot meet the delivery promises. That shows once again how strongly we are all connected. I am therefore pleased to see how we will be able to redistribute our own surplus at European level through COVAX. Colleagues, this government is convinced that developing countries should have access to vaccines and that they are a global public good. We have urged the European Union to listen to the arguments of the developing countries within the WTO. Today, the playing field in international politics is no longer the same as before. Developments are taking place around us, which I welcome. The objective of the Belgian Government, namely to vaccinate everyone as quickly as possible, is shared by most countries. Look at what is happening now in the United States, where new leadership will also focus on new priorities. It is up to us to ensure that we do not let go of our goals but that they are effectively tied to these changes. The European Union believes that there is today sufficient flexibility in current international legislation, namely the possibility of temporarily abolishing patent rights through compulsory licences or the voluntary sharing of knowledge through the World Health Organisation's COOVID-19 Technology Access Pool. However, the reality is that the existing flexibility is not being used. According to an estimate, based on UNICEF figures, world production runs at 42% of its full capacity. So we still have a long way to go. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not ask ourselves today how our system can work better in the event of a pandemic, when will we do so? Mrs Merckx, Mrs Van Bossuyt, you will agree with me that we are in exceptional circumstances. I haven't said anywhere that I want to abolish the patent. However, if the development of a vaccine is partly or almost entirely supported by public funds, can we expect nothing in return? If AstraZeneca can conclude an agreement with the world's largest producer in India, why are there no more agreements to share knowledge? Today most vaccines are produced in China. The United States, our country, the United Kingdom and Germany are also major producers. On the African continent, however, only South Africa produces, moreover, only in very small quantities. The African countries are therefore structurally dependent on our goodwill. If we send vaccines there in the first instance, that is a short-term reaction. In the longer term, however, I want to ensure that these countries too are self-sufficient by working on production capacity there too. I will continue to pull this cart over the next few days and make the same point over and over again. Everyone must have access to a vaccine. The debate at world level is ongoing and today the rich countries are facing the poor. I note that the United States wants to find a new compromise and the EU should not be left behind, because it is only through international solidarity that we will get out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u126	Minister, your answer disappoints me. You delivered a beautiful speech. You explained the unequal access and shared the various problems. But I didn't hear anything concrete. It took the two presidents of the Liberal parties to call you to order so that, in the end, you wouldn't say anything. There are tens of thousands dead. A humanitarian disaster is taking place in front of us. But in the end, I can't expect anything from you. Apart from charity through the COVAX mechanism, you have not announced anything today. You did not answer the question. I asked about the position of the Belgian Government. I didn't hear that one. You may contradict me, but I have not heard the Belgian Government's position. In fact, this means that the Belgian Government is now complicit, together with the European Union, which tomorrow at the WTO will block India's and South Africa's proposal to lift the patents and scale up production. In that sense, you pour crocodile tears: ocharm, in India, and ocharm, there must be vaccines everywhere. But where concrete solutions need to be found to a specific problem, we remain on the side of those who block them. That's outrageous. I can only appeal to the colleagues here, who may think otherwise. I have also tabled a motion to ask that Belgium take an effective position itself. After all, that is possible. You said it yourself: patent legislation is national legislation. So we can effectively express our own position in the World Trade Organisation. But apparently the liberals have made you think otherwise. I call on my fellow Members to urge the Belgian Government to take a different position by means of the motion and to stand up for the waiver of patents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u127	Madam Minister, I am particularly pleased with your explicit statement that you do not want to open the patents, contrary to what you said earlier in the media. I am really happy about that, because the patents are not the problem, but the availability of vaccines, and that in turn has to do with not only a logistics problem, but also a technical problem. After all, not everyone can start producing the vaccines. That requires a lot of know-how. Any opening up of patents, as Mr Merckx suggests, raises other major questions. After all, thanks to innovation and patents, countless lives have already been saved. Today, for example, babies born after 25 weeks of pregnancy are already viable. Today there are medicines to control HIV. Today there are immuno-oncological medicines that allow people with cancer to live longer. There are so many examples of innovation that have come about thanks to the research and the risks these companies have taken and the patents they get. We certainly must not stop this progress by opening up the patents, because it is innovation that is the engine to move forward and to protect ourselves in the future. Mrs Merckx, I invite you to consider it. We need to see what kind of world we'd be living in today without patents. We would not be able to see the light at the end of the tunnel. Madam Secretary, you also referred to the variants, which are increasingly circulating. That is another example of the great importance of patents. Again, it is very important that everyone is vaccinated as soon as possible. We say that opening up patents is not the solution, but that there are other solutions. We shall also table a motion to that effect. You also referred to the COVAX initiative, for which we really need to go full. However, we must also ensure, as I said earlier, that producers and licensees are brought together so that more can be produced. We should also encourage our Belgian companies to take part, for example, in making vaccines available to developing countries at a lower price. In this way, we can ensure that everyone in the world has been vaccinated as soon as possible. The opening up of patents is not the solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u128	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A first motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Sofie Merckx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Sofie Merckx and Anneleen Van Bossuyt and the response of the Minister for Development Cooperation and Major Cities Policy, - in view of the health emergency situation which has been spreading its grip on the world for more than a year now, which has already caused more than three million deaths worldwide and which has a particularly heavy influence on the entire social life of the population; - having regard to the request made in particular by India, which is in a situation of emergency health, and by a coalition of 100 countries of the World Trade Organization; - given the importance of immunizing as much of the population against coronavirus as possible as soon as possible in order to curb the spread of the virus; - since, after an estimated maximum of one year, the coronavirus will have mutated so much that most of the first generation vaccines will have lost their effectiveness and we will need new vaccines; - in view of the grotesque inequality in access to vaccines, which stems from the fact that the poorest of our planet, 80% of the world's population, have so far received as many doses as the richest, which represent 20% of this population, a situation which reflects a catastrophic moral failure, as claimed by the head of WHO, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, but also a major failure in political and economic terms, since it has not been possible to transform technological progress into an effective and fair response aimed at protecting public health throughout the world; - since it is estimated that only 43% of the global production capacity for covid-19 vaccines is currently actually used for the production of approved vaccines; - since several companies around the world have the capacity and willingness to produce hundreds of millions of vaccines in the relatively short term; - based on estimates by the United Nations and the World Health Organization that if production technology is made available, 60 per cent of the world's population can still be vaccinated this year; - in view of the existence of several platforms for the transmission of the technologies and know-how necessary for the production of vaccines against covid-19; - since intellectual property rights are currently the main obstacle to accelerating the manufacture of vaccines for the production of higher volumes; - since the basic research that led to the development of vaccines against coronavirus has been largely funded by public funds; - in view of the massive investment of public resources in all phases of research, development and production of vaccines against coronavirus; - in view of the intention of some large pharmaceutical companies to increase the price of covid-19 vaccines in the near future; - in view of the leading role that our country can play, at the heart of the European pharmaceutical industry, in facing the global challenge of giving everyone as fast access to vaccines as possible; - having regard to the 165 000 signatures already collected by the European Citizens' Initiative "No benefit on the pandemic", which is largely supported by trade unions, social movements, NGOs and activists in several countries, an initiative which calls on the European Commission to make every effort to ensure the availability of and universal access to the vaccine against coronavirus for all; asks the government to take a position within the World Trade Organisation, as an individual State, in favour of the abolition of patents on covid-19 vaccine and to this end to support the proposal for a derogation introduced by India and South Africa." A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Sofie Merckx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of the ladies Sofie Merckx and Anneleen Van Bossuyt and the reply of the Minister for Development Cooperation and Grand City Policy, - having regard to the state of health, which has been in full control of the world for more than a year now, has already caused more than three million deaths worldwide, and has a particularly severe impact on the entire social life of the population; - having regard to the request made by, inter alia, India, which is in a humanitarian emergency, and a coalition of 100 countries in the World Trade Organisation; - having regard to the importance of vaccinating as large a proportion of the population as possible against the corona virus as soon as possible in order to stop the spread of the virus, - having regard to the estimated maximum period of one year before the coronavirus mutates in such a way that most of the first generation vaccines lose their efficacy, and that we would need new vaccines; - in view of the grotesque inequality in access to vaccines, which is demonstrated by the fact that the 80% poorest people on this planet have so far received as many doses as the 20% richest, which not only indicates catastrophic moral failures such as WHO top man Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus put it, but also an important political and economic failure to translate technological progress into an efficient and just response to protect public health worldwide; - having regard to the fact that currently it is estimated that only 43% of the global production capacity for COVID-19 vaccines is also used effectively for the production of approved vaccines; - having regard to the fact that several companies worldwide are ready and asking to produce hundreds of millions of vaccines in the relatively short term; - having regard to estimates by the United Nations and the World Health Organization that, if production technology is made available, 60% of the world's population can be vaccinated this year; - having regard to the existence of different platforms enabling the transfer of technology and know-how necessary for the production of COOVID-19 vaccines, - having regard to the fact that intellectual property rights are today the first and main obstacle to the faster production of more vaccines; - having regard to the fact that the basic study for corona vaccines has largely been paid with public funds; - having regard to the massive public funds invested in all stages of the research, development and production of corona vaccines, - having regard to the intention of a number of large pharmaceutical companies to speed up the price of COVID-19 vaccines in the short term, - having regard to the leading role played by our country as the heart of the European pharmaceutical industry in the global challenge of giving everyone access to vaccines as quickly as possible; - having regard to the now 165.000 signatures for the European Citizens' Initiative 'No profit on Pandemic', which is widely supported by trade unions, social movements, NGOs and activists in different countries and which calls on the European Commission to do everything in its power to make the corona vaccine available and accessible to all; calls on the Government to take an individual Member State's position within the World Trade Organisation before the lifting of patents on the COVID-19 vaccine and to support the present Waiver proposal of India and South Africa." A second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms. Anneleen Van Bossuyt and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Sofie Merckx and Anneleen Van Bossuyt and the response of the Minister for Development Cooperation and Major Cities Policy, - having heard the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and the Federal Cultural Institutions at the oral questions meeting in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 27 April 2021; - having regard to the statements by the Minister for Development Cooperation and the Policy of Large Cities in the Press concerning the abolition of patents; - given the importance of vaccines in the fight against covid-19; - in view of the existence of the Covax initiative, worldwide cooperation between governments and pharmaceutical companies in the joint search for solutions to spread vaccines around the world; - in view of the willingness of pharmaceutical companies to contribute and make vaccines available to developing countries at lower prices; - Whereas the abolition of a patent alone will not have the immediate effect of freeing up know-how and, therefore, the production of the vaccine will not by definition be possible; - Whereas different pharmaceutical companies are still developing a vaccine which may prove useful in the fight against variants of the virus; - Whereas the vaccine production process has also fallen behind due to a shortage of raw materials, materials and infrastructure in some regions, a problem which will not be solved by the suspension of patents; - Whereas the suspension of patents will not lead to our common objective, namely to combat the crisis of covid-19 and to vaccinate as many people as possible all over the world so that we can return to a life in which everyone will have the freedom to move as he/she wishes; asks the government - to ease the turbulence within the government and to take a clear position in this discussion; - to contribute to the search for solutions to make vaccines available to all those who wish to be vaccinated, since everyone is entitled to a vaccine against covid-19 and vaccination will be beneficial to the global health situation; - not to release patents because it could hinder future innovation, which would also be detrimental to many R & D companies in our country and would not, moreover, provide a solution to the problem; - to follow in this debate the work and recommendations of WHO as it takes initiatives to bring together producers and patent holders in order to intensify production, which will make vaccines more accessible; - to encourage our Belgian pharmaceutical companies to cooperate in such initiatives in order to increase production and make vaccines available to developing countries at lower prices; - fully support initiatives such as Covax; - carefully monitor the emergence of new variants of the virus for which companies are still developing vaccines. This work could be threatened if the incentives for research and development created by patents disappear." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Anneleen Van Bossuyt and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of the ladies Sofie Merckx and Anneleen Van Bossuyt and the reply of the Minister for Development Cooperation and Grand City Policy, - having heard the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and the Federal Cultural Institutions during the oral questions in the Committee on External Relations on 27 April 2021; - having regard to the statements made by the Minister for Development Cooperation and Cities Policy in the press concerning the abolition of patents; - having regard to the importance of vaccines to combat the COOVID-19 crisis, - having regard to the existence of the COVAX initiative, a global cooperation between governments and pharmaceutical companies, working together to find solutions to distribute vaccines worldwide; - having regard to the willingness of pharmaceutical companies to contribute and to make vaccines available to developing countries at lower prices; - whereas only the removal of a patent will not immediately bring with it all the necessary know-how, which will not necessarily make it possible to produce the vaccine; - whereas several pharmaceutical companies are still developing a vaccine, which may also be useful for virus variants; - taking into account the fact that the production process of vaccines is also slowing down due to a shortage of raw materials, materials and infrastructure in certain regions, a problem which will not be solved by the removal of patents; - having regard to the lifting of patents will not lead to our common goal, namely to combat the COVID-19 crisis and to allow as many people as possible throughout the world to be vaccinated, so that we can return to a life in which everyone is free to go and stand wherever he/she wants; asks the government - to resolve the conflicts within the government and to take a clear stand in this discussion; to find solutions to make vaccines available to anyone who wants to be vaccinated, as everyone has the right to a vaccine against COVID-19 and it will benefit the global health situation; - not to open up patents, as this will slow down future innovation, which would also be detrimental to the many R & D companies in our country and, moreover, does not solve the problem that arises; - follow up on the work and recommendations of the WHO in this discussion, as they seek, through initiatives, to link producers and licensees to increase production, making vaccines easier to access; - encourage our Belgian pharmaceutical companies to participate in such initiatives to increase production and to make vaccines available to developing countries at lower prices. to fully support initiatives such as the COVAX facility to monitor Virus variants, for which companies are still developing vaccines. This work could be put at risk if the incentive for research and development is removed." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Ms Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gilles Vanden Burre et Servais Verherstraeten. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u129	Madam President, I have tabled a simple motion signed by the group leaders of the majority. I am also asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u130	A simple motion has been tabled by the majority, for which urgency has been requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u131	At the request of the authors, I propose that you refer the following motion for a resolution to the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda: - motion for a resolution (MM. Dieter Vanbesien and Gilles Vanden Burre, Mrs Vanessa Matz and Mr Nicolas Parent) for a fair and social distribution of ATMs in Belgium, No 976/1. At the request of the authors, I propose that the following motion for a resolution be sent to the Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda: - motion for a resolution (Mr Dieter Vanbesien and Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mrs Vanessa Matz and Mr Nicolas Parent) on the creation of a fair and social distribution of ATMs in Belgium, No. 976/1. This motion for a resolution had previously been referred to the Committee on Finance and the Budget. This motion for a resolution was previously sent to the Committee on Finance and Budget. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. At the request of the authors, I also propose that the following bill be referred to the Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions: - Bill (Mr. Benoît Piedboeuf, Ms. Jadin Kattrin and Mr. Emmanuel Burton) amending the Act of 19 April 1963 establishing a public institution called "Royal Mint Theatre" and the Act of 22 April 1958 on the Statute of the National Orchestra of Belgium, No. 505/1. At the request of the proposers, I also propose that you send the following bill to the Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions Committee: - legislative proposal (Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mrs Jadin Kattrin and Mr Emmanuel Burton) amending the law of 19 April 1963 establishing a public institution called "Royal Montschouwburg" and the law of 22 April 1958 on the statute of the National Orchestra of Belgium, No. 505/1. This bill had previously been referred to the Finance and Budget Committee. This bill was previously sent to the Finance and Budget Committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u132	The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill amending the Medical Devices Act of 22 December 2020, No. 1948/1. The Government requested the urgency statement pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law amending the Law of 22 December 2020 on medical devices, No. 1948/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u133	Madam President, the request for urgency is motivated by the fact that from the date of entry into force of the Law of 22 December 2020, in particular 26 May 2021, funding is necessary for the activities of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products, the Ethics Committees and the College of Clinical Trials, registered in that Law, with regard to the examination of applications for clinical trials.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u134	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u135	The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of the draft law on administrative police measures in an epidemic emergency, No. 1951/1. The Government has also requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on administrative police measures in the event of an epidemic, No. 1951/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we had a general discussion in committee on the draft pandemic law. I look forward to continuing this constructive debate during the article-by-article discussion which will begin Monday afternoon and continue until the finish, with the words of the committee chairman. As I have already said, it is by no means the intention to rush over this draft law, but we can certainly continue with the extensive discussion that has taken place since the beginning of March, on the basis of the unique first stage that this draft has had. Notwithstanding the confirmation by the case law and by the legislative section of the Council of State of the validity of the existing legal framework for taking the necessary measures, it cannot be denied that there is a great societal need for a specific legal framework to act quickly and adequately during this long-term pandemic as well as during future pandemics. This bill must enable us to respond to this obvious and justified societal need. There is therefore no doubt that the draft law is the subject of an important public debate on the impact of the corona measures on citizens' rights and freedoms. This debate shows that a lot of votes are taking place in order to adopt the draft law quickly, so that we can continue to have a thorough and serious debate. Therefore, when the draft law is presented, it is requested to be dealt with as a matter of urgency. It should also be noted that within one and a half weeks of receiving the opinion of the legislative section of the Council of State, namely on 15 April, the bill was approved at second reading in the Council of Ministers. In other words, the government has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that this project can be dealt with as a matter of urgency. There is little further argument that the government and society are calling for this draft to continue to be dealt with efficiently and quickly. I therefore hope that the urgency can be approved today and that the discussion of this draft law can continue soon so that we can soon start working on this new legal framework for managing these and future pandemics, in which legal certainty, legitimacy of the measures, transparency and also parliamentary involvement will be central.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u137	The urgency has nothing to do with the content of the proposal. It is, of course, an urgent matter. I think I remember asking for urgency a few weeks ago for a legislative proposal from our group seeking to settle the same matter. At that time, the majority felt that this was not urgent and I assume that this time it will also consistently say no. This time I must agree with the position of the majority and say no to the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u138	I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u139	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u140	Madam President, Marie-Christine Marghem announced to me that she could not connect but that she would vote as her group. You won't be surprised.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u141	She doesn't have an internet connection where she is? All Members have received the texts of the motions. We ask that the government be represented.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u142	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda of 21 April 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda of 21 April 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 116/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms Leslie Leoni. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 116/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Leslie Leoni. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the reason for my speech was yet another measure announced, in which the scientific usefulness of choosing this measure could not be demonstrated. The Prime Minister could not do that either with an earlier oral question from me in committee. He is always talking about the package of measures, and that worries me, because that means that there is no scientific evidence of causality and correlation, which could show that shopping, for example, contributes to more corona contamination. People's health must not be played with. Every dead person is one too many, but targeted measures must be taken that work effectively. That is why I tabled this motion, calling very clearly on the government to take action on the basis of demonstrable scientific evidence and that, in the absence of such evidence, no revenue-limiting measures should be imposed which seriously harm the economic fabric. We also call for tactful communication on the measures taken, for communication to be made out of one mouth, and for the prospects which are often put forward here in the front, but also in the media, to be met.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u144	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u145	Yes 89 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u146	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters of 21 April 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration on 21 April 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 109/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Raoul Hedebouw; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Tim Vandenput. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 109/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Raoul Hedebouw; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Tim Vandenput. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u147	Colleagues, I will try to make a few arguments to encourage you to vote on our motion. This is obviously the great carousel of appointments. Dozens of mandates have been distributed, in rather untransparent discussions, and it is not known at all on the basis of which criteria. A criterion had been adopted by all parties. The press had reported it: in any case, they did not want PTB on the board of directors. It's weird, because I thought it was a D'Hondt key that made it possible to decide who could or could not sit. A new criterion was invented, in which the PTB did not return. I have nevertheless allowed myself, in committee, to ask the Prime Minister the question. But why? What is the technical criterion? He replied: "Did anyone exclude a specific party? Certainly not, but our point of view is to appoint people who share the government's point of view, for example with regard to state interference in the economy." Everything is in the "but" of course! He began to make a speech saying that the PTB did not share this view. That's amazing! It is the Prime Minister who speaks, and you have all agreed in Vivaldi to name only people who agree with yourself. Excuse me, but it would be interesting to have other bell sounds on board. I remind you that in intercommunals etc., this kind of debate is possible, but in federal enterprises, no. We only call people who agree with themselves. Besides, I want to question the left parties. That Mr. De Croo tells me that he does not share our vision of public service in the economy, I can understand it. He wants to privatize everything. But it would still have made it easier for the progressive parties to have a PTB representative on the board of directors. We're defending the railroad, the public service, the post office. For all these utilities, we're here. We share this common point. I am therefore surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that Vivaldi has decided to divide her small posts between herself and, moreover, in an ideological sense. It is not only financial, but also ideological. I regret that, but I give you the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to catch up. An important moment is about to happen in 20 seconds. During the vote that will take place before you, you are not obliged to vote on this simple motion, which, moreover, comes from a Liberal, Mr Vandenput. Don't hesitate, this is the time or never: vote with the PTB against this simple motion. I feel like we're going to move things, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u148	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u149	Yes 81 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u150	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Three motions were tabled: - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms Anneleen Van Bossuyt; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Erik Gilissen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mmes Maggie De Block et Melissa Depraetere et MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gilles Vanden Burre et Servais Verherstraeten . Three motions were tabled: - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Anneleen Van Bossuyt; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Erik Gilissen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u151	Yes [[85]] Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 142 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u152	Madam President, I would like to say that Mrs Samyn was unable to take part in the first vote. By rebooting, her technical problems have been solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u153	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u154	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Three motions were tabled: - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Peter De Roover; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili; - a simple motion was tabled by Mmes Maggie De Block et Melissa Depraetere et MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gilles Vanden Burre et Servais Verherstraeten . Three motions were tabled: - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Peter De Roover; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u155	Yes 83 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u156	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Three motions were tabled: - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Sofie Merckx; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Anneleen Van Bossuyt; - a simple motion was tabled by Mmes Maggie De Block et Melissa Depraetere et MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gilles Vanden Burre et Servais Verherstraeten . Three motions were tabled: - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Sofie Merckx; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Anneleen Van Bossuyt; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u157	Yes [[85]] Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 144 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u158	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u159	Yes 141 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1731/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1731/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u160	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u161	Yes 131 Yes No. [[11]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1942/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1942/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u162	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u163	Yes 128 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 139 Total Accordingly, the Board adopts the recommendations. Consequently, the Court adopts the recommendations. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u164	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u165	Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Accordingly, the House adopts the 2020 budget adjustment of the Supreme Council of Justice. Consequently, the Court adopts the 2020 budget adjustment of the Supreme Court for Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-29-definitief-55-plenair-ip100x.u166	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, 6 May 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 6 May 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
