ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u1	Mr President, Minister, many questions and reservations have already been raised on this matter. In the aftermath of the Jürgen Conings case, a number of soldiers were subjected to disciplinary proceedings, either because they were on the so-called 'extremist list' or because they had a direct or indirect relationship with the deceased military. Security and arms clearances were also withdrawn. In this context, I asked you a while ago for a state of affairs. I think that question is still timely. Have there been any military appeals against the disciplinary measures imposed? If so, how much and when? You then indicated that the military would be rehabilitated. How many of them have been rehabilitated in the meantime? How many have been put to non-active? In the meantime, how many soldiers have claimed compensation for the loss suffered, especially morally, but also financially, and for the image damage suffered within the Defense Department?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u2	Mr Defossé, you have tabled three questions on the subject. I suggest you deal with them together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u3	Mr. President, Madam Minister, your first year at the helm of our Defence has been greatly disturbed by the question of the presence of the far right within it. After the uniformed participation of a former member of the Vlaams Belang in a violent demonstration against anti-corona measures in May, the Conings case highlighted the dysfunctions of the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS) and a presence of other far-right activists, sometimes considered violent and dangerous, in our barracks. In recent days, we have heard statements from an officer who, on the RTBF, expressed his disappointment at democracy and called for the advent of a dictatorship. Of course, everyone's views are free and Defence reflects the state and diversity of society, but I believe that this raises the question of the compatibility of these remarks with the duty of reserve and with the role of Defence in the protection of our institutions. I also wonder about the Conings case itself. In the Belang van Limburg of 7 October 2021, the CHOD spoke about the need to strengthen our cybersecurity capabilities by pointing the finger at foreign influences, especially Russia, in the creation of support groups in Conings on social networks and in the creation of fake news about this affair. It seems to me that this issue has not yet been dealt with in Parliament. Madam Minister, in Parliament, you have told us that 12 military personnel have been placed under surveillance, a figure that has been reduced to at least two, which have been pre-empted from weapons depots and sensitive areas. What about these two people today? Are they still under surveillance? Have they been permanently rejected? Have any sanctions been taken against them? Has a complementary screening been carried out and have other people been reported as dangerous and under surveillance? In February, General Boucké spoke of thirty people. What about today? Do you confirm the CHOD's comments on the Conings case? Could you then explain these attempts at destabilization? Is an investigation in progress on this matter? What were Belgium's defence reactions to these attempts? How do you intend to strengthen our defence capabilities in the face of this kind of attack? What is your reaction to the officer's statements about the advent of a dictatorship? Has the duty of reserve been breached? Do you understand that these statements from a defence officer can cause anxiety or even fear to the public? In general, do you consider that the question of the extreme right within our troops is under control?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u4	Mr Flahaut is on his way. Madam Secretary, perhaps he will be able to take some of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, investigations are still under way both at the level of the defence security and intelligence services and at the judicial level. Once these investigations have identified specific, serious, proven and consistent elements and facts, and with prior coordination with judicial authorities and security partners, the Defence will analyse the situation of the military personnel concerned from a disciplinary point of view and assess whether they have committed acts that could lead to disciplinary action. It is impossible to communicate the content of ongoing investigations or the details of the privacy of the individuals concerned. The SGRS does not communicate the exact number of people followed, but informs senior military authorities when cases or major events are detected. Every person suspected of extremism is investigated as soon as possible. Where necessary, measures may be taken to ensure safety. There is no room within the Defence for extremism in any form. A number of appeal proceedings were initiated against the withdrawal of security clearances. In the meantime, almost all of these have been assessed as without an object, as the security clearances were returned. Until today, no appeal against the disciplinary measures taken has been registered. There are two ongoing procedures which fall within the competence of the disciplinary service. We are not aware of any claim for compensation so far. The total cost for Defence for the search for Conings is 867.045 euros. This cost includes all allowances and allowances for the staff employed, the feeding of the staff deployed, the running costs of the vehicles and the costs of the flight hours for the deployment of the NH90. The stakes lasted until 21 June. These costs will be borne by the Defense Department. Defence intends to add an article to the Law of 11 December 1998 on classification and security clearances, certificates and advice, in order to provide for regular security checks on all defence personnel. Another important step is the reinforcement of staff. 18 new employees started at the ADIV in early October. Further reinforcements will follow. The staff of the ADIV shall have the necessary access to the database of the OCAD, as well as the staff of the other security services. The investigation into the alleged leaks is still ongoing. As part of its Bye-bye file, Democracy?, RTBF commissioned a study from the Kantar poll institute to find out what our fellow citizens think of the democratic form of government. The results of this survey are available on RTBF's media channels. Indeed, I can confirm that one of our fellow citizens who spoke on this subject in the RTBF newspaper on October 4th of this year is a Defence officer on active duty. The Armed Forces Military Status Act of 28 February 2007 provides that military personnel must in all circumstances respect public international law institutions, the Head of State, constitutional powers and State institutions. In addition, military personnel are prohibited from expressing opinions that impede the proper functioning of the State in general and of service in particular, with the effect, inter alia, of undermining the confidence of the nation in the armed forces or endangering the political neutrality of the armed forces. The statement of the individual concerned is certainly regrettable and does not conform to our standards, our values and the oath that each member takes. The Defence reminded the officer concerned of the duty of reserve that applies to him and the possible impact of his statements on the population. Furthermore, attempts to destabilise trolls have been found in the Conings case. These actions are part of a widely identified modus operandi, including the use of pseudo-experts, academics or journalists, aimed at increasing social sensitivities and polarizing opinions in order to put local authorities in difficulty. The SMS has detected these destabilizing actions as part of its normal monitoring and security activities, and as a result, the Service has informed its internal and external partners. A report based on the data collected in this file was also sent to various federal partners. However, the detailed data on these actions are classified in order not to weaken the defences implemented. The fight against fake news and the dissemination of false information is a priority of the government, as evidenced by the recent approval of the Belgium 2.0 cybersecurity strategy, which is an important step in the broader approach to cyber threats. In line with my initial ambition, the focus will be in 2022 on strengthening Defence's cyber capabilities and the eventual creation of a Cyber component to respond to this type of attack. A project team is currently working on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u6	Madam Minister, you have answered all the questions raised in this topical and urgent debate, for which I am grateful. You say the investigation is ongoing. We will, of course, continue to follow that up. It is certainly a good thing that an adaptation has been announced or is being developed in the framework of the regulation of safety procedures. You announced it and it is good that it is being carried out. I have asked a number of punctual questions, and you have also answered them very punctually, for which I thank you. One thing, however, was not entirely clear to me, and I hope you will be able to specify this. You said that the rehabilitations were almost all carried out. What does "almost all" mean in concrete terms? What military forces are still harmed by the measures that have been imposed against them at the moment? I hope you will answer that in a moment. No appeal, no damages, that's good. Of course, that is not good for the military in question, but I take note of your answer. What I am actually missing in this whole story, despite the many debates we have had on this, is that there is still no framework or gauge mentioned by you on the basis of which those soldiers have been endorsed or a disciplinary measure taken against them. That measure is missing and is still not clear to me. Those criteria on the basis of which soldiers were punished, both morally and financially, are lacking. I deeply regret that. I hope that we will be able to return to this after the investigation has been completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. As they say, scalded cat fears cold water. I understand that you do not answer clearly when you are asked whether the question of the extreme right within our troops is under control. However, I note that there is progress at this level and that there is a strong response on your part. You've decided to adapt the Security Clearances Act, to recruit from the SSRS. So a real job is done, which reassures me a little. For the rest, it is normal for you not to comment on judicial cases under investigation. This is neither the role of the government nor that of Parliament. We will therefore await the end of the investigations. I also take note of the fact that you called to order the officer who spoke on the RTBF. I imagine that he will be monitored from now on and he will pay attention to what he will say in the future. However, a general reminder to our military on this issue would be necessary in order to prevent this kind of thing from happening again. As far as cybersecurity is concerned, there is a real need to strengthen it. We see it almost every day. I trust you on this. I know that this question is part of your plan for next year and – I hope – for the following years. As for the issue of defence extremism, you keep repeating that there is no room in Defence for extremes, no matter what. I am obviously 100% in agreement with you on this point, and I will repeat it as many times as you do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u8	Mr President, Madam Minister, let me first ask you to excuse me for not being here to ask my question. However, I have had the opportunity to hear your answer, which is most important. That said, right-wing extremism has always been present within the Defence and even within the police, but in a creeping way. And then, incidents, like the one you had to know, minister, a few weeks after you took office, occurred. Of course, we can note with satisfaction the taking of a series of measures to combat this worrying phenomenon within the Defence or within any other structure. Nevertheless, the call to order is not sufficient because there is no doubt that this kind of incident will be repeated. What we saw on the screens is intolerable. In my view, the hierarchy should have shown a little more authority and severity in relation to what was said. I would also like to stress the need to integrate into the training provided to those who have been recruited a chapter on the risks and dangers of extremes in our society. Very often new recruits are based on cartoons because they do not have the necessary training, which may lead to discrimination. Second, there are avenues, but the Department of Defence alone cannot carry out the reform of the national security agency and the security clearance system. Similarly, each department cannot improve cybersecurity alone. A comprehensive approach is needed, with important means to do so. I assume that you have been attentive to this during the budgetary debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u9	Mr President, I will answer the question just put. They have all recovered their authorizations, except those whose proceedings are under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u10	Two.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u11	Yes. Without going into detail, when you're being watched by security services, it's for good reasons. A methodology is followed. Furthermore, with regard to training, we have already discussed it at length: all the action plans and paths envisaged before leave are in order of march, i.e. we are working on disciplinary regulations, on standards and values and on leadership. This will allow – to echo the comments of Messrs. Flahaut and Defossé – to put things in place, to remind the framework whenever training is organised, but also to refer to it for any preventive intervention first and, if necessary, if people repeat it, in order to be able to sanction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u12	Madam Secretary, I note that you confirm that there are two more soldiers whose investigation is ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u13	And there are also other ongoing investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u14	Minister, VTM videos showed, a few weeks ago, members of the 3rd Parachute Battalion celebrating in the Tielen barracks. The celebration would start at the beginning of May and clearly contravened all the health measures in force at the time. More seriously, fifteen days before the revelations on the Conings case, the participants in this party obviously brought back at least one person outside the defence, in violation of the security rules. The press reports the opening of an investigation into this matter. Can you tell me what's going on with the investigation? How many military personnel are affected by these events? Have sanctions already been taken and what are they? Have any measures been taken to ensure that this situation does not recur in the future and to strengthen security?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u15	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Defossé, a preliminary investigation was conducted by the unit and the SGRS. In parallel with this internal investigation in the Defence, a judicial investigation was opened and an initial report was drawn up. At this stage, the file is still at the information level. The identity of all military personnel present is known. They were twenty-six and their level of participation has yet to be determined. As soon as the reference magistrate responsible for military matters in this case can transmit information to the Defence, the actions required will be taken in relation to the acts committed by each military member. Sanctions may be imposed only when all the elements of the investigation are known, in order to be able to impose a sanction in accordance with the rights of the defence, the general principles of the law applicable in disciplinary matters and the principles of good administration, including the obligation to respect the precautionary principle which requires the authority to conscientiously gather facts and information before a decision is taken. As for the security measures and the rules resulting therefrom, their application is the responsibility of the units. The 3rd Parachute Battalion will ensure that they are strictly respected in the future. The directives in force were also referred to the members of the unit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u16	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I must admit that, given the screenshots, I was obviously very angry. For months, we had just talked about security and access issues for radicalized military personnel in sensitive locations. We talked about weak control at the entrance and exit of Defence infrastructure. And, a week later, we found ourselves with such images in the press. It seems, however, and fortunately if I dare say, that this little party took place two weeks before Conings fled. That's it! But I hope that, in the meantime, it has enabled everyone to recover and that such a situation is no longer possible. Minister, I would like to ask you an additional question. Can the person outside the barracks also be prosecuted?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u17	All persons involved are subject to a procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u18	Madam Minister, I had a question about the budget, which was referred to you. That's why I stopped by the defense committee. Mr President, thank you for your warm welcome. Belgium has sent several military cargo planes to Islamabad to evacuate former asylum seekers, people of dual nationality and other Afghans from Kabul. The entire evacuation operation was named Red Kite. Apparently, this operation spared no expense or effort. The military aircraft made an air bridge between the Pakistani and Afghan capitals. With private airlines, repatriation flights between Islamabad and Brussels were also carried out. Evacuated were then taken to Peutie's barracks for a security check, an identity check, a medical checkup and a corona test. That must have given us quite a bit of a cost. Madam Secretary, what did the entire evacuation operation cost in the end? What is the full cost to the budget? How will these expenditure be included in the budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u19	The additional costs for the Defence Department for this deployment amount to 1.7 million euros. I refer to the Minister responsible for extra expenditure on foreign affairs. The departments have now taken on the pre-financing of this additional expenditure and may, if necessary, use the interdepartmental commission later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u20	Madam Minister, I am not very satisfied with your answer, because you are constantly playing the question into each other. At the Department of Defense, they don't want answers to questions about the State Department. When it comes to the budget, we do not want to answer the whole of the cost and I am referred to you. For example, MEPs are sent from the locker to the wall. Madam Secretary, I expected a better answer, but I am not surprised at the same time. While the victims of the floods in Wallonia, your electoral area, have often not seen any real help from the government after weeks, the C-130s were on Melsbroek within 48 hours. While the affected Walloon population wonders even today where the government remains, the former asylum seekers, people with dual nationality and other Afghans saw the Belgian government appear within 72 hours. That is a world of difference, which we do not get explained to the people outside this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u21	Mr President, Madam Minister, following the much-discussed resignation of Major General Boucké as Head of Military Intelligence ADIV, in the aftermath of the Jürgen Conings case, Vice Admiral Wim Robberecht was appointed head of the service. His first mission was to restore peace to the department. Following that change of power and the announced plan of approach that would be presented this autumn, you announced an interim state of affairs. What about the operation within the ADIV? Have any modifications been made? Have any changes been made since the entry of Vice Admiral Robberecht? If so, which one? In the report we were allowed to look into, there are many recommendations. What priorities were set for short-term operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u22	Mr President, Mrs Ponthier, apart from the necessary adjustments to the operation of the ADIV, we must not forget that an essential task of the new ADIV chief is, of course, also the day-to-day operation of the service. In addition to the day-to-day management of the service, Vice-Admiral Robberecht organizes his work in order to achieve the objectives set out in the action plan already set out in this commission before the summer holidays. The first deadline is the preparation of a strategic plan for 2022. This plan will reflect the priorities of the service and will provide the necessary resources to ensure that missions are properly completed. This plan must be ready by the end of this year. For this exercise, Vice-Admiral Robberecht formed an in-house team. This transition team is set up to draw up this action plan for 2022 and to carry out all the necessary reforms to the service. A sounding board group was also set up with experts from other Belgian security services, which will provide the ADIV with the necessary support in implementing the reforms. The multi-year plan will be prepared in 2022 and will be implemented for the years 2023 to 2027. Another important step is the reinforcement of staff. Eighteen new employees joined ADIV in early October. Further reinforcement will follow in the course of 2022. In addition, the new Chief of the ADIV has already addressed a number of other priorities. In the field of the service's organogram, for example, a number of simplifications were proposed which should also improve the internal flow of information. With regard to the status of the SGRS staff, adaptation work is under way. This is a task shared with the State Security and the OCAM.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u23	Madam Minister, it is a good thing that you can already give some sort of overview of the timing of the various plans ahead: the strategic plan for 2022 and the military plan for 2023-2027. A lot of work will have to be done. One of the positive things at the moment is that there has already been a reinforcement of the staff. The internal report, which was available to us as committee members after the Jürgen Conings affair, showed that the lack of staff was one of the main concerns. So we can already be positive in this respect, given the recruitments you are quoting and the transition team that has been appointed. Another major pain was the lack of information flow. It is also a good thing that these procedures are now being simplified. However, what I think should be done above all within the scope of the ADIV is a major change in mentality. After all, the mentality was also one of the great pain points that we have been able to see. It was a painful experience as a committee to establish that the ADIV, a very important intelligence service and for everyone's safety in all areas, seemed to be a steeringless ship facing an internal struggle. For example, there were a number of oppositions within the service itself. There is also an important task for the Vice-Admiral to clean up and to make this change of mind. I am therefore looking forward, together with you, to the further development of these strategic and military plans. I'm sure we'll follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u24	I would like to add that question No. Mr Van Hecke's 55020008C will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u25	Madam Secretary of State, the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy of the Union, Mr Josep Borrell, announced on 16 November 2020 a draft for the new Strategic Compass. One of the most concrete issues is a rapid intervention force of about 5,000 soldiers. The reason for that is logical, I believe. The situation in Afghanistan has shown that there is a real need for this, on the one hand, because of the very rapid withdrawal of the Americans and the lack of warning to our troops and, on the other hand, because of the divided functioning of Europe. The biggest problem, and that is often the case in Europe, is, of course, decision-making, which brings me to my questions. Such an intervention force is indeed a good idea in itself, but how can we ensure that it can function and that national vetos are not a problem? What is your position on this idea? How do you look at that? Did you also contribute to the design of the Strategic Compass?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u26	Mr President, Minister, I will refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u27	Mr President, the proposal for the possible creation of a European military intervention force, referred to, is part of the discussions on the preparation of the so-called Strategic Compass. The Strategic Compass is an important strategic reflection that has been running since the end of 2020 and aims, inter alia, to update and clarify the level of military ambition of the European Union within its common security and defence policy. In addition to clarifying the tasks that can be carried out in an EU framework, consideration is being given at the same time to the capacities needed to achieve that level of ambition. A first draft of the Strategic Compass will be discussed in November 2021, while the final version is expected in the first half of 2022. The Member States themselves are in charge of the development of the Strategic Compass and can therefore also make their proposals. For example, France put forward several ideas in a so-called food for thought paper to improve the operationality of the European Union, including the proposal for the creation of a rapid European intervention force. Fourteen Member States, including Belgium, supported the general ideas contained in the French reflection document, as it strengthens Europe's position and can contribute to strengthening the European pillar within NATO. This benefits both organisations. The European Union strengthens its operational strategic autonomy and, on the NATO side, the European Union is seen as a capable security actor, thus contributing to the achievement of NATO objectives. The possible creation of a rapid reaction force and the precise modalities still need to be specified. However, it is clear that the Member States will have to make the funds available. This will require a fair effort from each Member State. As stated, recent events in Afghanistan have once again demonstrated the need for the European Union to have its own operational capacity that can be deployed independently of other partners. Such a rapid reaction force could be used in scenarios and regions directly linked to safeguarding and defending vital European interests. Just as for the possible deployment of the EU battle groups, it is ultimately the participating countries that decide sovereignly on the deployment of their troops. At European level, the provisions of the Treaty will be complied with in this respect. The EU should create a military and political framework, including the availability of operational capabilities, procedures and decision-making mechanisms, allowing efficient deployment. Belgium has also played an active part in the content of the Strategic Compass by expressing its views and proposals in the various areas. The Belgian proposals concern both the area of operational engagement, capacity development and structural cooperation with partners, as well as the increase in so-called resilience with, among other things, the fight against hybrid and cyber threats. The EU should be armed against current and future threats. Member States should work together on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u28	Madam Minister, Vooruit has always been in favour of better cooperation within Europe, including within NATO. This crisis has shown once again that this cooperation within NATO is not always the smell of roses and moonshine. That's very clear. You say that 14 Member States are positive about this rapid reaction force. Part of that shows the problem. There's a lack of unity. I will not mention the recent problems with Poland. Do I understand that you want to think further with those who do? It is good that Belgium is taking the initiative to think further about this structure. However, we must find a solution to the veto that some people can impose. That would be very unfortunate if we were to work out something like this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u29	Madam Minister, the initiative naturally raises many questions. Mr Verduyckt has already mentioned that there are questions about how the decision-making process will proceed. We normally need unanimity in order to reach a decision, and I would like to see what happens in practice if there is no unanimity. I believe that the plan will bring little or no improvement compared to the current functioning of the EU battle groups. I'm still asking questions about that. In addition, my group has questions about giving up even more national sovereignty to the EU in an area which is primarily a sovereign competence of the Member States, but that is an ideological reflection on the story. NATO's relationship with this European initiative is also important. Recently, together with the President, I was a guest at the meeting of NATO's Parliamentary Assembly. There was something to say about the European initiatives. The amendments tabled by partners from the United States were not a big fan of all initiatives on behalf of the EU. I am therefore looking at the matter with some caution. We will wait and see what will have become of the plan in March 2022. I am certainly following it with the necessary attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u30	Mr President, Minister, there are a lot of profiles needed in the defence sector, including divers-deminers. They're trained in Defense, if I understand correctly. The course normally lasts 7 months. During the corona crisis nothing was normal and many training was interrupted. That is how this training went, up to more than 31 months, and I am being alerted. At the time I submitted this question, the final sea stage could not continue either. It is not entirely clear to me whether that was for practical or budgetary reasons. I don't know if a solution has been found in the meantime. In any case, the students who were in the middle of the programme would like to complete them. That is why I am asking you how the training is going.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u31	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt, there is an annual call for a ship from the Belgian or the Dutch Navy for the internship at sea. At present, it is possible to organise an internship at sea under corona-safe conditions, but there are insufficient resources available within the Defense Department. That is why other solutions are being sought. Solutions to use, for example, civil resources through existing Defence contracts are currently under further investigation. Every effort will be made to have a ship available in 2022 to organise internships at sea again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u32	Madam President, I hope that these solutions will be found. After all, it would not be right for us to allow people to start training, and then to find that they cannot complete that training. I will continue to follow up on the case and hope that there will be a solution by 2022, so that in the future, the Defence Department can continue to appeal to qualified divers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u33	Madam Minister, I would also like to highlight the extraordinary work that has been done by the soldiers who are still at MRIEP in Eupen following the floods. I had the opportunity to go to this neighborhood. I found there, to my great satisfaction, that the Defence was reinvesting, particularly in the large sports hall with regard to the work related to the roof. Out of curiosity, but I am glad that this is taking place in my commune, I would like to know exactly what the work planned on the site of the Eupen barracks is, and what budget has been allocated for this work. Should further work be expected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u34	Mrs Jadin, the work currently under way on the Eupen site concerns the deep renovation of the envelope of the sports hall, block D, as well as the work of sealing between block D and block G. This work was allocated for an amount of 601,000 euros, including VAT. At present, no other significant short-term investment work is planned on this site.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u35	Madam Minister, thank you. That's very encouraging. We have fought a lot in the past to perpetuate the location of MRIEP in Eupen. It is therefore a strong and encouraging sign to continue in this direction. As you know, part of this was taken over by the municipality of Eupen on the Schönefeld site. Here too, we hope that we will soon also be able to improve infrastructure, including for the proper use of our military.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u36	Madam Minister, I am reminded that the number of American soldiers present in Europe is rising again, while initially it was expected that the American army would withdraw a large part of its soldiers from Europe and reposition others. The Daumerie barracks, close to Mons, were to be returned to our Defence, but that will not be the case. For President Joe Biden, Russia poses such a threat to European security that it decided to review the plans for the withdrawal of troops in Europe that had been announced under the Trump era. Moreover, the United States Force Command in Europe (EUCOM) was also to be moved from Stuttgart to Casteau in the Mons region. Minister, has the presence of the U.S. Army also increased in our country? Does the fact that the U.S. Army ultimately retains the Daumerie barracks near Mons influence our defence infrastructure plan? Has a move from EUCOM to Casteau also been discussed or have these plans been definitively thrown into the oblivion?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u37	Ms Jadin, President Joe Biden has decided to review the posture plans in Europe. To date, no formal communication has been made to the Defence regarding the revision of these plans and the possible relocation of the EUCOM. Following the U.S. decision to retain the Daumerie Barracks, Defence assumes that the U.S. is in the final planning phase. This decision has no influence on Defence's infrastructure plan. If EUCOM's move to Belgium is under the sovereignty of the United States, the final decision can only be taken in consultation with our national authorities. But since there is no official communication yet, it is not possible at this stage to provide you with concrete figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u38	Wait and see!Thank you for your answer, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u39	Mr President, the exercise announced by Russia is, according to the Russian Ministry of Defence, a purely defensive exercise that does not target any state. Nevertheless, NATO and the allies closely monitor the manoeuvres, especially as Russian propaganda has launched a number of anti-Western messages. This is not the first time that Russia has conducted major exercises at NATO's borders. It is therefore not appropriate, for the time being, to proceed to a state of alert. Both NATO and the allies exercise the utmost vigilance and remain ready to take action if necessary. These could include the expansion of security measures within NATO troops in the Baltic countries and the availability of preparedness forces, including the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF) in which Belgium has engaged maritime assets, special forces and a detachment of F-16. The Rapid Trident exercise is an annual bilateral exercise organised by the U.S. military in Europe. This exercise is designed to improve joint interoperability between NATO Member States and partner countries. Ukraine acts as a host country each time and invites NATO Member States and partner countries to participate. The concept, scope and location of the exercise do not allow to speak of any military escalation. The Belgian defence staff is invited annually to participate in Rapid Trident and participates sporadically effectively with staff officers. Defence regularly participates in international exercises under the NATO concept of Deterrence and Defence of the Euro-Atlantic Area, but does not itself have the necessary capabilities to organise unilateral distress exercises.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u40	Madam Minister, this question is almost in line with what I asked earlier and relates to the state of alert that we, the European countries, must maintain on the eastern border of the European Union. As proof, I want your very complete answer. We will also have to ask ourselves questions about strengthening our capacity to contribute to NATO, since it is of crucial importance for the security of the Union. I repeat, once again. As for cooperation with Ukraine, it is likely to alert the Russians who take sometimes somewhat provocative steps. However, some cooperation must persist. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I note that we are participating, but not with what I will call active troops. I am satisfied with your restraint, your caution, your cautious vigilance. You know I'm an advocate of restraint. We should not always be on the side of the United States when we have no interest in doing so. We should not be provoked, but we should not provoke ourselves. We must be vigilant, but not provocative. I am therefore satisfied with your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u42	Madam Minister, after the final withdrawal of troops from the West, the Taliban parade in several Afghan cities with the military equipment they acquired following the abandonment of the Afghan army, which had been able to take advantage of very modern equipment, and the hasty withdrawal of forces from the West. Fortunately, a few devices have been dismantled so that they can no longer be used for armed attacks. In addition to the numerous weapons, it appears that the Taliban would have seized a large fleet of armoured vehicles, but also a few blackhawk helicopters and even a handful of fighter aircraft, making the Taliban the first Islamist group with an air force. In fact, this arsenal of military equipment may find the path of Islamist groups operating in other regions. So we have something to worry about. Do you possibly know the number of vehicles, helicopters and military aircraft that the Taliban were able to acquire following the departure of the Western armies and the abandonment of the Afghan army, which had been well equipped by the West? How many military devices were dismantled prior to the withdrawal of the troops? Will the movement of this equipment of immense value and importance be observed, in particular for fear that it will be sold to Islamist groups operating in other regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u43	Madam Secretary, you know my interest in the fate of our fixers and interpreters in Afghanistan. After all, I asked a lot of questions about this in spring and summer. According to De Tijd, 45 Afghan ex-workers from our Department of Defence and Foreign Affairs are still in Afghanistan, as are 63 other people who are also at risk there. Are we talking about 45 people? Is the DOD in contact with these people? What are your plans regarding their evacuation? Can we represent them at European level, for example with the Netherlands, which is in a similar situation, especially after the murder of one of their in hiding Afghan interpreters? What is the role of Qatar?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u44	Dear colleague, according to an inventory of 30 June 2021 of the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, the Afghan Air Force had 167 aircraft of various types operating, but no jet aircraft. At the time of the fall of Kabul, more than 40 aircraft and helicopters flew to Uzbekistan and about 10 to Tajikistan. We don't know where those planes are today. Open sources indicate that at least three helicopters were used by the Taliban, mainly for transportation. At this stage, there is no evidence that other Afghan air force aircraft were used by the Taliban or were used for combat missions. As far as we are concerned, we will not provide any assistance for the maintenance of air systems and the supply of spare parts and weapons for these aircraft. We do not know exactly how many vehicles delivered to the Afghan army are still usable, except for several thousand vehicles. Sources in the United States indicate that no fewer than 73 aircraft and helicopters have been decommissioned at Kabul airport. Following the withdrawal of the Belgian troops from Afghanistan, we did not leave any equipment on the ground. Some smaller items, such as beds or chairs, were passed on to the Germans for sale. I can confirm that all Belgian military equipment was evacuated from Mazar-i-Sharif in good time. The fate of the remaining Belgians on the spot will be followed as best as possible by the FPS Foreign Affairs Office. Through the latter there are also contacts with the Netherlands. Eight persons with a link to Defence, including interpreters and fixers, and 45 relatives of those persons, could not yet be evacuated. Over the past few weeks, Defense has been communicating with several of its local employees. The Belgian embassy in Islamabad also communicated with these people. In addition, the situation is also monitored on the spot. Any possibility of helping our remaining staff in Afghanistan is always being looked at and evaluated. State Secretary Mahdi is competent for Asylum and can answer your questions regarding asylum applications. There haven't been any Afghan students at the KMS in the last ten years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answers. In the current state of affairs, we must note that we have something to worry about. When I hear that some machines have disappeared and remain undetectable for the moment, I believe that we must remain vigilant.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u46	Madam Minister, in reply to my question, you say that you will continue to do everything possible. I hope that is a genuine commitment, every day. This is very important from a humanitarian point of view, but certainly also for the credibility of our defence. We must do it for our allies, for those who have helped and supported our forces for years, in Afghanistan but in other areas. That is our moral and humanitarian duty, which we must try to fulfil day after day until everyone is safe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u47	Madam Minister, recently the Vice-President of the European Investment Bank or EIB, Mr Peeters, who was once an entrepreneur, then politician and then banker, sent an open invitation to Belgium. He wanted to look together with you and the Minister for Finance, Mr Van Peteghem, at how the EIB can play a role in financing Belgian security and defence capabilities. The offer would also apply to the state governments. Mr Peeters felt that Europe should invest much more in the defence and security industries. The Flemish interest agrees. The EIB finances only defence and security projects in the case of dual use applications, which have both military and civilian functions. Our defence would therefore have a chance of EIB financing, but only if it fits into the dual use approach. How did you respond to that offer? Has that been discussed with Mr Van Peteghem? If Belgium wanted to join that offer, what concrete projects would be financed? Is it about research on climate change, scientific innovation, cybersecurity, investment in HR software and personnel policy, the general wage and working conditions of military and civilian personnel or other matters? What amount would it be about if Defence were to respond to the EIB's offer? What role do other EU bodies such as the European Defence Fund and the European Peace Facility play in this? To what extent are they currently involved in financing our defence and security industries?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u48	Various contacts have already taken place, including between Mr Peeters and myself. Projects that Defence has proposed and which could benefit from the EIB's infrastructure and sustainability. Cyber projects and technological innovation projects are also involved, all of which have a dual character. The possibilities and their more concrete implementation will now be examined with the Finance and Budget colleagues, all the more so since they must be projects of at least EUR 200 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u49	Madam Minister, that is indeed a punctual answer, as my colleague said. However, you did not answer the last question, which I regret. If we can claim these additional resources, it is important that we do not offer any opposition. After all, who are we to do that? Defence and security in general also benefit from additional resources in this country, especially when they come from the European Union. There is something to be said for this cooperation at EU level. The points you make about infrastructure in the context of sustainability, cybersecurity and technological innovation are topics for which adjustment is possible and recommended. You say it is about a minimum of EUR 200 million. I do not know when you will expect a conclusion on the discussion on the actual implementation of the funds, but I will certainly come back to the dossier in the near future to see what is planned or what has happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u50	Mr President, Mr Creyelman, the facts of 2007 were investigated by the British court, as the case took place on British soil. The British major was convicted on August 13th of this year. The documents obtained through Major Whatley from the Royal Army Museum were part of a trade operation. They were included in the collection and are untraceable. No remuneration was obtained for the documents exchanged. The employees of the Royal Army Museum from that time have already died. The exchange of documents is a practice that has not been applied since the creation of the WAHI. The WAHI has declared themselves an injured person in the British investigation. The British court has therefore held that the documents previously belonging to the WAHI, which are still in the Major's collection, can be repatriated. Since the WAHI also has other copies of most of the documents, it is in consultation with British museums to give the documents on long-term loan to avoid the cost of repatriation. Any items which cannot be loaned will be repatriated. In that case, it will be examined whether it is legally and economically feasible to recover the costs from the convicted major. The investigation into the origin of Fegelein's cloak is still ongoing. There are no results yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u51	Madam Minister, I note that we will either get the documents back or give them on long-term or non-long-term loan to the British museums concerned. What surprises me is that it's so easy to steal pieces from our army museum. Apparently it was enough to measure an identity 'Allo Allo' and then drive out with a tank, an air defense cannon and the like. That sounds more like an army circus than an army museum. I can only hope that lessons will be drawn for the future, so that I and other Members of this House will not have to ask questions about this again in a few years' time. It's been a while, but that doesn't change the fact that it came up in the news again and then I express myself cynically.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u52	Who's the circus director, but that's a rhetorical question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u53	Madam Secretary, some time ago, Lieutenant Colonel Dominiek Saelens announced in a press conference that Defense would like to recruit 3.0 new staff in the coming year. It's about 200 soldiers more than this year. There are 2,500 soldiers and 560 civilians. The breakdown would be as follows: 1,250 soldiers and sailors, 950 petty officers and 300 officers. At the same time, 910 posts would be opened for reservists. The new recruitments should, of course, replace the forthcoming retirement wave of the so-called baby boomers. I would like to ask you a number of questions about this. After all, it is and remains a topical issue and you have also announced that you will continue to stimulate the recruitment wave, which is a good thing. How will the new military and civilian staff be recruited? Are the traditional qualifications requirements and the mental and physical qualifications envisaged used as minimum criteria or are they relaxed in this area? Are physical fitness tests reorganised at the same level and with the same requirements for success? In what way do you want to achieve that number of recruitments? Please respond to educational programmes, scholarships, public relations, etc. or will the expected recruitments be achieved solely on the basis of the increase you announced and as I have heard? Finally, are the recruitments in line with the timetable set out in your policy letter, in particular the recruitment of 10,000 soldiers during this term of office?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u54	The recruitment of military personnel continues in accordance with the legal conditions laid down in the Royal Decree of 11 September 2003 on the recruitment of military personnel: diploma requirements, successful selection tests, medical, physical, psychotechnical, etc. The recruitment of Defense's civilian personnel is carried out by selections according to the procedures and criteria defined by Selor. Those procedures and criteria shall be applied throughout the public service. Only for the Rosetta start-up contracts for under-26 year-olds without previous work experience, recruitment takes place directly by Defense after an interview. Each individual recruitment dossier in a Rosetta runway shall be approved by the Treasury Inspectorate. As a result of COVID-19, physical tests have been suspended since the first semester of 2020. Since July 2021, applicants have been carrying out the physical tests again, at the same level and with the same success requirements. Prioritising recruitment for 2021 was given to candidate officers and candidate volunteers for operational functions. For the recruitment for 2022, all applicants will take the physical tests. The recruitment of civilian personnel does not depend on the success of a physical fitness test. The monetary revaluation does not affect the way recruitment is organised for the coming year. As part of the recruitment for the open vacancies, Defence organises activities and also participates in other activities in which young people are informed about the jobs at Defence. In this context, we plan for the recruitments in 2022 to participate in job days, job fairs, open-door days and other events. To achieve this, there is close cooperation with the VDAB, the Forem, Actiris and Bruxelles Formation. In consultation and coordination with these partners, interested parties are reminded of the possibilities offered by Defence. In addition, the information centres will re-contact schools to reach young people by this route. In this context, briefings will be given in schools and visits will be organised to units and to our training centres. There is a special cooperation with schools which offer an integrated safety course in safety professions. In addition, we participate every year in the study info days and in the SEEP (show info études et professionals), during which local recruits and active recruits address and inform the attendees about our job opportunities. These scholarships are very important and are the ideal time to draw young people's attention to what Defence can do for them. In order to make the jobs offered by the Defence Department attractive, the organisation of events will focus on the contact that young people can have with local recruits. They will also actively get an idea of the job content by showing and performing certain tasks that make the job of military specific, such as reading an initiation card, performing an obstacle course and so on. Working in a team context will always be central. Numerous job days for different jobs are organized each year. In addition, young people are given the opportunity to participate in specific information moments in specialised information centres. Those information moments are organized for the functions pilot, air traffic control, technical functions and the navy in general. A total of forty moments are planned. In addition, the Navy is given the opportunity during the sailing days to taste life on board. In 2022, the Royal School of Petty Officers and the Royal Military School will each organise an open campus day. The recruitments follow the planned schedule. For 2021, the objective was 2,500 inclusions. So far, 2,174 incorporations have been achieved. Volunteers are still on the move. The stated objective is expected to be achieved. In 2022, Defence will recruit a total of 2,500 active military personnel, including 300 officers, 950 non-commissioned officers and 1,250 volunteers. In addition, Defence will open 910 positions for reserve personnel in various functions. In addition to this number of military personnel, 560 civilian personnel will also be recruited in 2022. These recruitment operations will be repeated each year of this legislature. The majority of the functions of new military recruits will be in the operational units. The BDL Statute is maintained for all vacancies for volunteers and for certain functions of Petty Officers and Officers. Civilian personnel will be deployed on the one hand for specialised functions that do not require military competence and on the other hand in runway contracts to allow people to gain a first work experience. The 10% overrun is foreseen to compensate for the short-term outflow. The law establishing the quota for 2022 is in preparation and will be delivered to Parliament in the near future. In 2022, for the first time, Defence offers the possibility to take a bachelor's degree in a few specialties and at the same time receive a salary according to normal recruitment for Petty Officers level B. The inclusions for these vacancies are scheduled for August 2022. These are specific technical functions: six vacancies aircraft mechanics and avionics, six vacancies infra mastergast electromechanics, electromechanics vehicles, optronics and electronics, four vacancies technical and weapon engineering services, two vacancies electronician medical equipment and four vacancies computer science. The initiative is complementary to the Defence and Security programme. We hope that both initiatives will have a positive impact on recruitment. As a result of these recruitment efforts, the average age of Defence personnel declined by more than one year between September 2020 and September 2021, from 39.7 to 38.3 years for members in general. For civilian staff, the average age increased from 47.7 to 46. The percentage of women in the family increased from 9.1 per cent to 9.8 per cent in 2021. The percentage of civilian women remained stable and stood at 45 per cent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u55	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive and detailed answer. I understand, therefore, that the procedures for recruitment do not change and that the traditional requirements continue to apply. What I did miss in this answer is that earlier, in the wake of the Jürgen Conings case, you had announced that you would organise additional screenings. Are they still coming? Are these linked to the regular recruitment arrangements? If so, how does that happen? I understand that the physical tests are not yet fully restarted. Initially, they would only be organized for petty officers and volunteers, and only for everyone from 2022 onwards. Is that right? I will read your answer again, particularly in terms of numbers, details of recruitment criteria and so on. It is important that Defense should come out in a positive way as often as possible, thus increasing the attractiveness of the military profession. We hear that many candidates come to offer themselves, but often they drop out a day later. The reasons for this are not always known. On the day of registration of 27 September, 73 interested parties arrived, 16 of whom left again shortly afterwards. That's a high percentage. Is that due to unfilled expectations, or to instructions that are not coming through correctly? Are candidates being lured to the Department of Defense with false promises? We must pay attention to the results of the exit talks of the quick cut-off. Furthermore, we all hope that a new balance can be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u56	Madam Minister, usually and unless I am mistaken, press briefings on Belgian operations abroad are organised four to six times a year. This is the only public information produced by Belgium on its airstrikes against the Islamic State (IS) in Syria and Iraq, for example. Due to the health crisis, according to the Defence Press Service, there have been only two points organised since October 2020: one on 18 February and another on 9 June. A point was to be organised at the end of September. However, it appears that it is impossible to obtain electronically the documents presented in the press briefing. They are distributed only on the same day and require a physical presence. This hinders the work of foreign journalists and makes it difficult to comply with health rules (forty years, etc.).). Minister, when will the press get back to normal cruising speed? Can an adaptation of the rules of access to documents be considered in times of pandemic or, better still, in normal times? In general, how do you envisage making information about our presence and military actions abroad more transparent?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u57	During the press briefings, the Defence reviewed the current up-to-date operations: the number of military personnel deployed and their main missions. During the period of the health crisis, the frequency of contacts with the press was effectively reduced, but an additional effort was made to make all information on internal and external operations available on the Defence website. In the meantime, a return to normal has gradually taken place. Several press briefings have been held recently. The press briefing on Operation Red Kite was held on Wednesday, 22 September, a press briefing for the end of Operation Desert Falcon on 1 October. Others are expected in the coming weeks. At the end of the press briefings, a powerpoint is sent to journalists who request it, in the interests of transparency. Journalists present can ask questions to staff representatives who respond on-line. However, some questions may not be answered so as not to compromise an ongoing operation. Information relating to operational security and/or potentially endangering the secondment and its personnel shall be communicated only in camera and not to the press. The Defence Press Service and my spokespersons are also permanently available to answer journalists' questions. General information on Defence operations and news is also available on the Mil.be and Beldefnews.be websites.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u58	Minister, my question followed a few tweets from journalists complaining about this decrease in the frequency of information. I am pleased to hear that things are gradually resuming their normal course, even though normality, which requires ever more transparency towards the press, is a democratic imperative. I hear that you have made efforts in this direction and I will continue to follow up on this subject to see if the journalists agree with your comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u59	They call whenever they want!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u60	We'll tell them!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u61	Madam Secretary, you know my particular interest in anti-drone warfare. I am very concerned about this and hope that there will be a very comprehensive chapter on this in the future strategic vision. In the past, we've had 55 pard-air target systems. At some point they were sold. However, there are international projects to re-activate this capacity specifically against drones and other unmanned aircraft. I have tabled a number of questions on this subject. What exactly happened to those planes? Is anyone aware of these foreign projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u62	Mr President, 55 Pard target systems were withdrawn from circulation in 1994. The change in the geostrategic framework and the security environment following the fall of the Soviet Union has led our country to switch to Mistral for air defence. 48 Gepard Air Target Systems were sold to the company Sabiex in 2004 for 1.2 million euros. The rest of the heritage was transferred to the WHI. There's no more "Gepard" in the Department of Defense. Defense is aware of the foreign projects to use the Gepard to disable unmanned aircraft. These systems were developed in the 1960s for intercepting aircraft and helicopters. Although the Gepard is capable of countering the threat of some larger drones, this system is unable to intercept mini and micro drones. In the context of the updating of the strategic vision and the military programming law, account is indeed taken of a change in the geostrategic framework and the security environment. The acquisition of a capacity air defense against larger and smaller harnesses is part of the possible options.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u63	Mr President, Minister, I am particularly pleased to see that last part of your reply. It is essential that we provide for such capacity in the strategic vision and subsequently in the programme law. Following military topicality, people will know what happened between Azerbaijan and Armenia and they will also know what is happening in Libya. This is really essential. If one does not use the Gepard, an old technology and capacity that we no longer have, then we will have to use the most modern systems, including the CaMos.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u64	Mr President, Madam Minister, this summer's Afghan sequence has demonstrated once again that we need real strategic autonomy in Europe and that our dependence on our allies could only lead to embarrassing, if not humiliating, situations for European states like the one we have just experienced. As part of his speech on the state of the Union, on Wednesday 15 September, Ursula von der Leyen announced his intention to move forward on a defence Europe, promising a joint statement with NATO by the end of the year and a European Defence Summit under the French presidency of the European Union in the first half of 2022, just before the French presidential elections. I'd say "as by chance!" While the question of a common defence is particularly sensitive between the Member States of the Union, the issue is clear: we must seize our strategic autonomy. Madam Minister, how do you envisage Belgium's role in this dynamic and, in particular, in the run-up to this European Defence Summit? To the extent that the European Union remains an intergovernmental organisation, how does Belgium intend to ensure the European Parliament's role as democratic guarantor on such a key and strategic issue as European Defence? What is Belgium's position on this joint declaration between the European Union and NATO? What is our country's follow-up and action on the 47 joint actions already agreed in the last joint declarations? What is the current share of Belgian military purchases made in Europe? Is there a growing or decreasing trend in recent years? What is the analysis of the European Union Situation and Intelligence Centre being taken into account by Belgium? What about structured cooperation? Is there a will or perspective to make it a more powerful and generalist tool? Finally, we decided to set up a Belgian Cyber component in the near future. What are the prospects for synergy within the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u65	Mr President, I would ask you to excuse my colleague, Christophe Lacroix, who is unfortunately suffering and who wanted to speak in this debate. Minister, this is not the first time that my group has intervened at the level of Defence Europe. Already in 2013, my colleague Christophe Lacroix had proposed to the House to adopt a resolution on the future of the Belgian army within a European framework. This is obviously to be welcomed, since the government agreement makes Europe's strategic autonomy, both operationally, humanely and industrially, a priority. I think that's a good thing. This autonomy is indeed essential and the current situation has just reminded us of it if necessary. On the one hand, there was the hasty exit from Afghanistan and, on the other hand, France's recall of its ambassadors from Australia and the United States after Australia cancelled the order for 12 French submarines. Last May, at a meeting with your European counterparts, 14 Member States, including Belgium, supported the idea of strengthening European strategic autonomy. As my colleague said, on the occasion of her speech on the state of the Union in 2021, Commission President Ursula von der Leyen also called on the Union to develop its own defence capabilities. Madam Minister, as a result of these recent developments, how are the debates taking place in the European Union and what position does our country take in this matter in practice? Similarly, in NATO, are these news also to be discussed in the near future? What will be the Belgian position? In concrete terms, both on the agenda and on the proposals on the table of the Twenty-Seven, what are the next steps announced and the projects that could finally be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, as stated in your question, the current geostrategic and security situation requires more than ever to increase our capabilities in the field of security and defence at European Union level, and the willingness to use them, in cooperation with our partners if possible; alone, if necessary. Currently, an important strategic thinking, called the "Strategic Compass", is being developed. The purpose of the Strategic Compass is to clarify and update the role of the European Union in the field of security and defence, in particular in the following four baskets: operational engagement, partnerships, capabilities and finally the field of resilience. Belgium is very active and has taken a proactive role in the discussions that took place in different formats and at different levels, among others at the level of defence ministers. This is consistent with the guidelines developed in my policy note of 4 November last, and the government agreement. It is clear, taking into account the current geopolitical situation and the number of challenges and threats facing the European Union, that the Union will need to be able to manage these situations more independently. I believe that awareness and dynamics are in place in the Member States to translate it into strategic axes and concrete actions in this strategic compass. The rapid intervention force is only one of the ideas included in a French concept paper. Its possible creation, as well as the modalities, remain to be determined. Within the framework of the Strategic Compass, it is also clear that all Member States should make an additional effort and invest in this process. The next step in the establishment of the Strategic Compass is the discussion of the "resilience" basket at the level of the Defence Ministers at the end of this month. A first draft will then be presented and discussed at the meeting of European Defence Ministers on 16 November. The final version will be ready and presented in March 2022 under the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union. On the NATO side, strategic thinking is also under way. It should culminate with the approval of the Strategic Concept 2022, at the Madrid Summit in June 2022. It is obvious that optimal coherence will be sought between the two reflections, taking into account the specificity of each of these organizations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answers. It seems that we share the conviction that we need a real, strategically autonomous Europe of defence. It is essential if we do not want to ridicule ourselves as was the case with the strategy adopted for Afghanistan. On this occasion, we were treated as negligible because we are not able, at this stage, to behave in any other way. However, as the new partnership between the USA, Australia and the United Kingdom shows, it is essential today that we focus on our own defence, on cooperation between the European states, on the end of the financial waste resulting from competition at all costs. Unfortunately, we have less and less reliable allies. We must therefore demonstrate that we are able to work together for our security and develop our own diplomatic and development skills.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u68	Minister, thank you very much for your answer. As I said, our group has always been a major supporter of Defence Europe. Already in 2013, Christophe Lacroix had a resolution adopted by the House on the Belgian army and its inclusion in a European framework. In particular, he called for "to include the European dimension in the next strategic plan, including pooling and sharing, as a priority for the various defence departments, in particular with regard to the provision of capabilities, the purchase of equipment and the conduct of our army's operations abroad". During the previous legislature, we had been very disappointed, and we had largely denounced it, by this lack of ambition in this area within Minister Vandeput's 2016 Strategic Vision, defending above all an Atlanticist vision. We are very pleased to read the opposite in the Vivaldi government agreement, namely that Belgium will continue and strengthen its commitment to an effective European defence. This will help to build a real European strategy and autonomy and will also strengthen the European pillar within NATO, which remains the cornerstone of Europe's collective defence. We believe that the eventual achievement of a true Europe of defence, whether politically, industrially, humanly or strategically, must be a priority for us in the construction of Europe. You have all my encouragement to make it happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u69	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 15 September, the Australian authorities announced that they had broken the arms contract signed with France for the purchase of submarines in 2016 for the benefit of a contract and an agreement signed with the United States and the United Kingdom. The broken contract amounted to EUR 56 billion. It appears that, as a result of this cancellation, the Australian State is required to pay only a small amount of compensation. If this breach of contract is marked by the magnitude of the sums involved, the breach of international contracts is not exceptional. In these circumstances, I question the possibility for the Belgian State to do the same with the Defence contract to equip the Air component with the American F-35 aircraft model. The money allocated to this contract, amounting to €3.6 billion, could be used to deal with the various crises – social, health and natural disasters – that Belgium and its population are going through. Minister, can you cancel the contract to purchase the F-35 aircraft? If so, what could be the extent of the financial compensation? Do you intend to break this contract in order to use the money allocated to deal with the crises facing Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u70	I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u71	Mr President, with regard to the contract for the purchase of F-35 aircraft with the US government, it is possible to terminate it as is the case with any contract. However, the financial consequences depend on the performance phase of the contract in which it is located at the time of cancellation. Mr Boukili, you know that we are at an advanced stage: EUR 1 billion has already been paid for this contract. It is therefore not possible for the government to put an end to it. The announcement of a strategic alliance between Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States, accompanied by the sudden cancellation by Australia of the submarine contract with France on 15 September, surprised Belgium, like the other EU Member States. This was also stated by the High Representative of the European Commission, Josep Borrell, following an informal meeting of the European Foreign Ministers on 20 September in the margins of the UN General Assembly, in which Belgium, alongside other EU countries, clearly expressed its solidarity with France. The current challenges for stability in the Indian and Pacific region call for greater cooperation and coordination between like-minded partners. In a joint statement following the telephone conversation between the President of the French Republic, Mr Emmanuel Macron, and the President of the United States of America, Mr Biden, to examine the consequences of the announcement of 15 September, the United States also recognises the importance of a stronger and more competent European Defence that contributes positively to transatlantic and global security and is complementary to NATO. In this context, Belgium supports the establishment of a strategic dialogue between the European Union and the United States. Finally, within NATO, decision-making is and remains based on consensus.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u72	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. We had indeed already discussed the status of the contract. The rupture of the latter would result in some loss. I would like to point out that the sums allocated to the purchase of the F-35 amount to almost EUR 3.6 billion. That's the total estimated cost. It's not nothing. This represents a tiny part of the final cost of replacing fighter jets, taking into account maintenance, pilot training, technical cooperation, etc., to be EUR 15 or 20 billion for the coming years. Under the current crisis conditions, the billions saved represent a considerable amount of money to meet the urgent needs of the population. I take the example of the recent floods. On this occasion, we saw the limits of the means of our public services, including those of Defence, to deal with this type of disaster. It would be useful and urgent to remedy those limited means. The purchase of fighter aircraft is far from the primary need of the Belgians today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u73	Madam Minister, despite the diplomatic difficulties associated with this AUKUS security agreement, there is a great deal to be said for it. It is to our advantage to counterweight Chinese totalitarian imperialism. Then the support of a Western ally like Australia is much needed. China puts a lot of military, political and economic pressure on the West. Military pressure is also being exerted particularly in the Indian and Pacific region. The stronger they get, the stronger their grip on Europe in general, including our security and defence policy. So we must also remember who our allies are and who our opponents are in this. The US, the United Kingdom, Australia are Western partners, and so is France. Although France feels put in the shirt by Australia and America, we should keep in mind the larger geopolitical picture. We must also stop China's advance and aggressiveness as much as possible by developing a common strategy and capacity with European, NATO and other allies. It is therefore a pity that France has sent such a strong signal, initially to the US and Australia, by calling back its ambassadors. Those folds are mostly ironed at the moment. It seemed that France saw an opportunity, with the removal of the United Kingdom from the EU, to position itself towards a European army or a leading political and military role for itself. That's an evolution we're a cool lover of. This AUKUS agreement therefore has a certain merit, especially in geopolitical terms and thus in the interests of the West and of that country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u74	Dear colleague, the strategic plan provides for balanced investments across all WHI sites. On the other hand, it is true that the thorough renovation of the site of the Royal Museum of the Army and of Military History will only be possible after the renovation of the entire site of the 50th anniversary planned in the perspective of the bicentenary of Belgium, that is, beyond the period covered by this strategic plan, which ends in December 2025. It would not be appropriate to modernize the MRA museography until the building hosting it has been rehabilitated. Defence and WHI are natural partners. Defence will support the development of the WHI and this strategic plan, including the provision of additional military personnel to the institution in future years. The Topstukken Decree is indeed likely to affect the pieces of federal collections, but their ownership is in no way affected. In addition, according to Article 6.3 of the Decree, the consent of the institution is required to include in the list of protected heritage all property which has not been in the territory of the Flemish Community for more than 30 years. Furthermore, it seems to me important to make it clear that the Flemish Community is not the only one to have such a decree allowing the allocation of museum pieces transferred to its territory. The risk analysis of the Topstukken decree and the parts on the Ypres and Brasschaat sites is therefore the same as for all other parts under management. The War Heritage Institute relies on respect for the principle of federal loyalty to the public collections managed by the WHI. The WHI is a federal institution, rooted throughout the country. The collections are the property of the federal state. The WHI determines where it establishes them and stores them. The collections are federal and the WHI, the manager of the collections, takes into account, as the sole criterion of distribution, only the consistency of the place where the pieces are exhibited in relation to the history that took place there. The strategic plan was prepared by a working group that I decided to establish and comprised several members of the Board of Directors, members of the Executive, the Finance Inspectorate and my firm. The strategic plan was unanimously approved by the Board of Directors on 17 June 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u75	Minister, thank you for your answers and I encourage you to preserve the federal integrity of the WHI.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u76	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Francken's 55020954C and 55020959C are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u77	Madam Minister, I tabled this question before our heartfelt discussion in plenary last Wednesday night. We have also talked about the announced Strategic Vision. You also said that in the last trimester you would come to Parliament with the updating of the Strategic Vision. Madam Secretary, can you give us an update on that? When can we expect that? You have already said that, particularly in the last trimester of 2021. We know the work of the experts and the guidelines approved by the government. Have the events of last summer, such as the flood and the departure in Afghanistan, had an impact on the direction the government intends to take with the actualisation of the Strategic Vision? Can you give me a tip of the veil? What are the biggest reforms? Does the Strategic Committee still have a further role to play after fulfilling its mandate and presenting it to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u78	Mr Buysrogge, on 23 July 2021, the government approved the ten guiding principles for further updating the Strategic Vision. I am currently working, in consultation with government partners, on the actual updating of the Strategic Vision and the law on the military programming of investments. The objective is to bring the law into force at the beginning of 2022. There is a need for balance in the major reforms. Defence will therefore first have to go through a consolidation phase in order to strengthen internal processes and build up the necessary growth capacity. If these conditions are met, capacity and staff growth is possible. Growth in personnel and equipment will be included in the Military Programming Act. The floods of July 2021 and the situation in Afghanistan have been taken into account. As I pointed out earlier, it would be beneficial if DOD regularly reviewed priorities in the light of an updated analysis of the security environment. I asked the coordinators of the Strategic Committee to initiate the debate on the role of Defence on Horizon 2040. In this context, activities will be organised during the first semester of 2022. The coordinators will present concrete proposals in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u79	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. You have indicated that the military programming law will be submitted by 2022. I assume that we will return to the dossier in committee in the autumn of 2021 prior to the military programming law on the update of the Strategic Vision. What you have designed, namely to instruct the people of the Strategic Committee to gradually extend Horizon 2030 to a later time perspective, is also in the spirit of the discussion we had with the Strategic Committee in the spring of 2021. Horizon 2030 will be faster, whether we like it or not, than we would suspect. The extension of Horizon to 2040 is a good way of working, which we can certainly support. I am therefore counting on you to do everything in your power, both for your actualization and for enlargement to 2040, to involve Parliament either formally in this or any other setting, or informally, not only at the level of the majority, but also at the level of Parliament, in the process as far as possible, in the execution of both tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u80	Madam Minister, in this context too, I refer to last week's nightly discussion when we also discussed the quarters of the future. It was about the two sites that will be used for this purpose. Charleroi has already been approved and you are confident that a solution will be found for the site in East Flanders in the coming months. After all, you said 'je suis confiante' and that there are also municipalities asking parties, 'il y a des communes qui de toute façon sont demandeuses'. That looks good for East Flanders. I would like to call on you to play an active role in this area, including in the defence sector, and not to take a wait-and-see attitude. Madam Minister, can you explain the selection of Charleroi and the concrete implementation and the time frame you intend to take into account in the project? When was the choice made for Charleroi? You indicated that you did not want to go into detail about the exact resources required until the choice had been made. Can you confirm that you have guarantees from the government that Defense will be able to deploy the intended 100 million now that the choice for Charleroi has been made? Is the 100 million earmarked solely for the construction of the barracks or also for the purchase of the land and the attracting of any partners to involve them? Which municipalities are currently in the running for the installation of a barracks of the future in East Flanders? Which boards did you actually consult? Which private-sector partners or other security services are Defence currently talking to about synergies around the barracks of the future? Does DOD also have an eye for a public-private partnership with a financial input from these partners? Finally, the site will in any case have to undergo a metamorphosis in order to change them to 15 minutes of the future. How do you see the master plan to build a new army barracks or an SME campus or to build a park on the site? Can you provide us with a concrete roadmap for the concept of barracks of the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u81	In line with the coalition agreement and my policy paper for 2020, the process for the installation of fifteen minutes of the future in the provinces of Hainaut and East Flanders was launched. At the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 23 July it was decided to insert the quarter of the future in Hainaut in Charleroi. The site in Charleroi offers many opportunities and assets in terms of location, accessibility, recruitment potential and synergy potential for partnerships. Defense is now studying which combination of units is best realised in this quarter of the future in Charleroi. The start of the works is expected in the course of the year 2024. Indeed, in the coming years, 100 million euros, excluding VAT, will be provided within the federal budget for the realization of the quarters of the future, on top of the multiannual budget of Defence. This EUR 100 million can be used for the whole of the expenditure associated with the realisation of the quarters of the future. As regards East Flanders, there have been contacts between the Defence Staff and representatives of Aalst and Aalter with a view to military prospecting. The aspect of the partnerships is being examined further. For example, there are talks with IFAPME, le Forem and la Cité des métiers. For the elaboration of the quarter of the future in Charleroi, Defence is part of a working group led by la Société de reconversion des sites industrials de Charleroi, which implements the master plan for the Porte Ouest site. The development and further development of this master plan are the responsibility of Walloon Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Spatial Planning Willy Borsus.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u82	Madam Secretary, you say that the works in Charleroi will begin in 2024. Its implementation may not yet be discussed in the course of this legislature, but the works will begin. For East Flanders you referred to the contacts and the puzzle that is being created to realize any partnerships. I strongly believe in the concept of barracks of the future, so that the defence sector opens up to both industry and the academic world, such as university spin-offs and so on. However, it may be interesting if the committee is given a concrete explanation of the opportunities involved. I feel that there is a lot in it, but at some point we must be able to go beyond the theoretical framework. There must be a good theoretical framework, but we also need to hear from someone from the Defence Department how it can be implemented in concrete terms, so that we not only get barracks of the future, but also build a defence of the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u83	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Question No 5, by Mr Pillen and Mr Creyelman (H-5020990) Mr Francken's 55020975C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u84	Mr President, Madam Minister, during the week of October 4-10, 2021, demonstrations were held in Mali during which Russian flags were raised. The junta is reportedly negotiating a contract with the Russian paramilitary group Wagner. This group has been known for six years, when it appeared alongside the pro-Russian rebels in Ukraine. Since then, it has been found in Syria, Libya and the Central African Republic in particular. We're talking about a militia that's guilty of abuses. Russia says, I think with hypocrisy, not to know them. Following these negotiations, France claimed that it would withdraw completely from Mali if an agreement was reached and Wagner operated on Malian territory. Minister, what is your analysis of the situation? Is France credible in its withdrawal threats? What would be Belgium's attitude in the event of an agreement between the Malian junta and the Wagner Group? Is this situation likely to call into question our current but also future commitments in the Region? Is this position the same for all the countries where we are engaged? Is coordination at the level of all the countries involved in Mali?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u85	Mr President, Mr Defossé, we have read the statements made by the representatives of the French, Malian and Russian governments. At this moment, we have no evidence of the actual presence of members of the Wagner group in Mali. The engagement of militia from this group, if confirmed, would be of concern for the stability of the area. I myself have expressed my concerns to the Malian authorities. A global strengthening of this private security company's presence in the region could ultimately harm Western interests. Currently, Defence is involved in the European Union Capacity Building Mission and European Union Training Mission missions as well as the Takuba Task Force. Defence is also involved in MINUSMA. Given the sensitivity of some information, it is not possible to provide further details on potential ongoing investigations and verifications. Changes to Defence's contributions in the region would be made in consultation with other federal government members and will be presented as part of Operations Plan 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u86	Madam Minister, thank you. I believe that it is indeed necessary for us to have real coherence and to work in coordination at European level on this matter. It is also positive that you have been able to discuss this with the Malian authorities. Whatever some may say, it is important to meet with the authorities of the countries in which we operate. This use of Russian paramilitaries, allegedly unrelated to Putin's government, obviously raises questions about the intentions, objectives and strategy it hides, in addition to human rights issues. The latter are absolutely not guaranteed. We know what this kind of private military society can give; I think we have had problems in Afghanistan and Iraq with the American company Blackwater whose name has been so tainted by the abuses and civilian casualties they have left behind that they have changed their names three or four times since. It is therefore very worrying and I cannot imagine that we were operating at some point, even from afar, alongside this kind of mercenaries. We will keep an eye on the matter, and we will keep a close eye on it with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u87	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Lacroix's 55021277C was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55021403C by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Francken's 55021430C and 55022087C are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Ponthier's 55021453C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u88	Mr President, I would also like to refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u89	Mr President, Madam Minister, I will give a brief explanation. It's about the conditions of admission to the Defense Department to become a pilot or eventually become a pilot in the Defense Department. In particular, my question concerns eye defects, whether or not they are tolerated. We have heard that the rules are very strict with the Defense Department and that the slightest eye defect is not tolerated. That is obvious, because safety and visibility are of course crucial. Let there be no doubt about that. However, we note that the rules in the defence sector are very strict compared to, for example, civil aviation or the rules applied in other countries, as in our neighbouring countries. In most other countries, either a small eye defect is tolerated or diversified according to the aircraft, such as helicopters, jets or fighter planes. My question is whether you are open to reviewing the current strict legislation. I ask you this question, because that way, if we maintain the very strict rules, we simply lose talent with the Defense Department. I know of a number of candidates who are really interested, want to engage and are very motivated to start a pilot's career in Defense, but who are medically rejected because of a very slight eye disorder. Madam Minister, I hope that you will be open to looking at this and possibly reviewing it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u90	Madam Minister, I would like to endorse Mr De Vriendt's question. After all, we have all received a similar message in our mailbox from someone whose dream is thwarted in that way. We must be very strict on the conditions of admission. We must also, especially when it comes to combat planes, have the best of the best. We have to be very strict. However, Madam Minister, I am also looking forward to the answers you will give to the many questions that have been asked on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u91	Mr President, the required medical fitness for each candidate military candidate is described in the Royal Decree of 11 March 2003 establishing the medical fitness criteria for the military service. The medical selection of Defence pilots is based on the legal criteria of the Royal Decree of 17 September 2005 on fitness for air service. With respect to the vision criterion, visual acuity by far must be 10/10 for each eye separately and without optical correction during the selection examination. During the career, visual acuity requirements may evolve as for example for a transport aircraft pilot. The visual acuity from a distance shall be at least 1/10 for each eye separately but shall be corrected to 10/10 with eyeglasses. The association Aircadets of Belgium was founded with the aim of preparing young people for a possible career as military pilot. For this reason, the same legal criteria are used in their medical selection. This is done in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding of 10 November 2009 between the detachment of Belgian Air Cadets and the Centre for Aviation Medicine. Our country uses strict standards, as is the case for Spain, Norway or Sweden. Some other countries have more flexible standards, such as the Netherlands. In Belgium, pilots are selected medically to serve as a hunting pilot. The law of the small numbers requires the Air Component to choose a profile in the selection, in particular that of the yacht pilot. However, in the course of training or during the career, it is possible to become a helicopter pilot or pilot of a transport aircraft. On a visual level, the KB of 17 December 2005 is less demanding for the latter. The Centre for Aeronautical Medicine has no information on the potential candidate pilots who do not offer themselves through insider knowledge of medical requirements. The number of pilots rejected due to physical problems varies from 5 to 10 persons per year. A review of the medical criteria for air service fitness is under development. This revision will take into account, on the one hand, benchmarking with other countries and, on the other hand, the needs resulting from the transition from the F-16 to the F-35, which obliges our pilots to use complex helmets with integrated head-up display, helmet display and night vision projected per visor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u92	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. Anyway, even if I wanted to, I don't think I would have been able to access this function, given my eyes. I find it a shame to deprive myself of certain talents. In fact, as you say, the talents themselves do not appear because they know that they do not meet the necessary criteria from an eye point of view. I think that more flexible standards do not make our air force weaker – like the Netherlands. I do not think it can be said that the Netherlands has a weaker army because they have more flexible criteria. On the other hand, if I understand correctly, the requirements for visual acuity may change during the career
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u93	Madam Minister, there are a number of reports of candidates who have been rejected for a very slight deviation in vision capacity. As a result, that dream and commitment are completely destroyed. You say that five to ten candidates a year are rejected for that reason. At least it would be appropriate to examine this re-evaluation. If it can be effective in a number of our neighbouring countries, why can't it be reviewed with us? The exercise must be made at least once. It should be considered whether it would effectively lead to a degradation of the quality of the candidates. If it is true that Belgium is about the only country, in addition to Spain and Norway, where this high standard is applied, it is nevertheless appropriate to review this. It is striking that this is being dealt with in such a sec. The Flemish Interest Group believes that the standard should of course be very high, but a re-evaluation of the current standards, which have been in force for a very long time, would at least be appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u94	Madam Secretary, your answer was very clear, and was also good news. After all, you are open to adapting the rules that are currently in force and very strict. The problem is effective that young people are highly motivated to be part of the Defense Department. They have the dream of being a pilot. Yet they are now blocked by very strict rules. They can't even take part in a cadet training because there the profile of yacht pilot is used as a standard, although later they work with more flexible rules within the Defense Department. Then there is a certain tolerance for a number of eye defects. You will see if it can be modified. I am very pleased with that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic606x.u95	Madam Secretary, you announce that you will undertake a review. In terms of quality, we really must not lose sight of it. For example, for our fighter pilots, we need to be able to select the best of the best. Surely that is important to take into account. Working linearly, so with rules that apply to everyone, there is always a risk. The proposed measure is, if I am not mistaken, quite linear. A lot of potential soldiers don't get in because of some kind of color blindness. For certain functions, correctly distinguishing colours is of course important, because it is risky when a military interprets green as red or vice versa at a crucial moment. However, it may be interesting to consider whether that rule should apply to everyone. It seems to me that certain functions are conceivable in which some form of colour blindness, in which degrees exist, is not insurmountable. That is why I am asking for this review to be carried out so that the Defence Department can attract quality and get the best people in the best places. The influx possibilities of candidate staff who really want to give themselves to the Defense Department should not be used unnecessarily.
