ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u2	Voters 124 Stemmen White or invalid 12 Blank or invalid Valid 112 Geldig Absolute majority 57 Perfect majority Mr. Jean-François Cannoot obtained 1 vote. Mr Jean-François Cannoot received one vote. Mr. Christophe D-Aloisio obtained 12 votes. Mr Christophe Dи Aloisio received 12 votes. Mr. Luc Donnay obtained 3 votes. Mr Luc Donnay received 3 votes. Mr. Arnaud Huberty obtained 0 votes. Mr Arnaud Huberty received 0 votes. Mr. Jean-Marie Huet obtained 2 votes. Mr Jean-Marie Huet received two votes. Mr. Yassine Kadi obtained 11 votes. Mr Yassine Kadi received 11 votes. Mr. Khalid Seghiar obtained 0 votes. Mr Khalid Seghiar received 0 votes. Mr. Daniel Sudant obtained 3 votes. Mr Daniel Soudant received 3 votes. Mr. Vincent Yzerbyt obtained 75 votes. Mr Vincent Yzerbyt received 75 votes. Mr. Vincent Yzerbyt, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared an alternate for Mr. Didier Dochain on the Boards of Directors of Unia/Myria. Mr Vincent Yzerbyt, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed alternate to Mr Didier Dohain on the boards of Unia/Myria.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u3	Voters 118 Stemmen White or invalid 16 Blank or invalid Valid 102 Geldig Absolute majority 52 Perfect majority Ms. Tine Claus obtained 80 votes. Mrs Tine Claus received 80 votes. Mme Charlotte De Mondt a obtenu 22 voix. Mrs Charlotte De Mondt received 22 votes. Ms. Tine Claus, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared an alternate of Ms. Shaireen Aftab on the Boards of Directors of Unia/Myria. Mrs Tine Claus, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed deputy to Ms Sharieen Aftab on the boards of Unia/Myria.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u4	Voters 117 Stemmen White or invalid 17 Blank or invalid Valid 100 Geldig Two-thirds majority 67 Two-thirds majority The following preference votes were recorded: The following preferred votes were counted: For the Commission de nomination de langue française: 1. As a professor/law lecturer: Mr. Damien Jans obtained 95 votes. 2. As an external member: Catherine Halluent obtained two votes. Mr. Axel Kittel obtained 79 votes. Ms. Stephanie Mees obtained 13 votes. For the Netherlands Language Appointment Commission: 1. As a professor/law lecturer: Mr. Tim Wuyts obtained 98 votes. 2. As an external member: Mr Bernard Dervaux obtained 5 votes. Mr. Filip Hellemans obtained 90 votes. For the French-speaking Appointments Committee: 1. As a professor/teacher in law: Mr Damien Jans received 95 votes. 2. As an external member: Mrs Catherine Halluent received two votes. Mr Axel Kittel received 79 votes. Mrs Stéphanie Mees received 13 votes. For the Dutch Appointments Committee: 1. As a professor/teacher in law: Mr Tim Wuyts received 98 votes. 2. As an external member: Mr Bernard Dervaux received five votes. Mr Filip Hellemans received 90 votes. Accordingly, the following are hereby declared elected as effective members of the Commissions of Appointment for the Notariat: For the Commission de nomination de langue française: 1. As a professor/law lecturer: Mr. Damien Jans. 2. As an external member: Mr. Axel Kittel. For the Netherlands Language Appointment Commission: 1. As a professor/law lecturer: Mr. Tim Wuyts. 2. As an external member: Mr. Filip Hellemans. Therefore, as effective members of the Notarial Appointment Committees, the following are declared to be elected: For the French-speaking Appointments Committee: 1. As a professor/teacher in law: Mr Damien Jans. 2. As an external member: Mr Axel Kittel. For the Dutch Appointments Committee: 1. As a professor/teacher in law: Mr. Tim Wuyts. 2. As an external member: Mr. Filip Hellemans.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u5	Voters 91 Stemmen White or invalid 9 Blank or invalid Valid 82 Geldig Absolute majority 42 Perfect majority Mr. Hugues Bayet obtained 65 votes. Mr Hugues Bayet has received 65 votes. Ms. Ellen Samyn obtained 15 votes. Mrs Ellen Samyn has received 15 votes. Ms. Anneleen Van Bossuyt obtained 3 votes. Ms Anneleen Van Bossuyt received 3 votes. Ms. Els Van Hoof obtained 64 votes. Mrs. Els Van Hoof received 64 votes. (1) Mr Hugues Bayet, having obtained an absolute majority, is appointed as a member of the delegation for the Conference on the Future of Europe. Mr Hugues Bayet, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed a member of the Delegation for the Conference on the Future of Europe. (2) Ms. Els Van Hoof, having obtained an absolute majority, was nominated as a member of the delegation for the Conference on the Future of Europe. Mrs Els Van Hoof, who has been given the absolute majority, has been appointed as a member of the delegation for the Conference on the Future of Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u6	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 643: Nahima Lanjri, Nawal Farih, Nathalie Muylle, Catherine Fonck - 86: Anja Vanrobaeys - 538: Catherine Fonck, Nahima Lanjri - 990: Marie-Colline Leroy, Evita Willaert - 1078: Sophie Thémont, Leslie Leoni, Jean-Marc Delizée - 1733: Ellen Samyn, Dominiek Sneppe, Hans Verreyt, Ortwin Depoostere, Frank Toventors, Barbara Pas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u7	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u8	Madam President, we refer to the written report. I also speak on behalf of Mr Bombled, co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u9	The assembly would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u10	I will speak later on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the discussion will still have an extra cachet if Mr Bombled gives an oral report. Too bad this isn't happening today. But all madness on a stick, the subject we are talking about here, is a deeply human subject that affects all of us. In the first days after the death of a neighbor, one needs time to arrange a lot of practical matters anyway. But mourning, of course, is much more than that. There are so many ways to grieve when there are people. Everyone does that in a different way. Some want to remain as active as possible in the first instance. Often comes the proverbial knock of the hammer or a few weeks or months later. Then it's gonna take time. But today is still not foreseen at that time. Others grieve again by talking much more and faster about their feelings. That also takes time. But even at that time today is not foreseen. The time at which time to mourn is also different for everyone. Until today, for most workers, there is barely three days' mourning leave. They usually deal with the funeral arrangements and other practical matters. The time needed to grieve on top of those three days will soon become a matter of sick leave, while recognizing the suffering of the relatives concerned in the form of, among other things, an extended mourning leave can make a great difference for many. That is why this bill extends mourning leave not only to ten days, but also provides for this mourning leave to be taken up to one year after the death of the next. That is a good thing. The proposal that is now being adopted has come a long way. Even before this purple-green government was even in the scaffolding, we reached a compromise on this in a working group in committee. What the authors of the final proposal overlooked or overlooked for a moment was that the statutes of the employees and of the officials would be further separated by this proposal, which cannot be the intention, of course. In order to avoid this, I tabled an amendment in committee, which was finally adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal recognises the suffering of relatives who have lost a close friend. That is why it is a good thing that we have worked on this together and that enlargement is finally coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u12	Madam President, I would like to say a few words about this work on extending bereavement leave. It took a long time in committee, but we are now getting a result, that of identifying an indispensable element which was widely asked by the associations who came to speak at the hearings, namely recognition; recognition that mourning is not an illness, whereas today, as we know, a three-day period forces the act of requesting a medical certificate because we do not know how to do otherwise. The difficulties are twofold: one is to manage sadness, the unspeakable, the horror, the absolute difficulty; the other, cynically, is to manage the administrative aspects. As the ground dives under our feet, we have the impression that we need to manage procedures, stay active, and make sometimes heavy decisions very quickly. There is also the fact that the grieving person must be able to say at some point "today, it's not okay, I need time for myself, I have to think, land, stop" and the employer must be able to hear it. As we discussed, there was an agreement that this is not a leave of absence like any other; it cannot be classified as 'thematic' leave. With regard to families experiencing this mourning, we wanted to send a message that the situation is quite special. We wanted it to be recognised as such and therefore not included in a more general reflection on thematic holidays. I know that some colleagues have taken a step in this direction and I thank them for that. The current legislation dates back to 1963 and today we are pleased that this proposal concerns as wide a public as possible. I would like to insist on long-term foster families. For them too, the possibility of being identified as close families is recognized; it is a first step and it is very important. For all the statutes, civil servants, self-employed and employees, attempts have been made to move towards harmonization, in accordance with the policy statement. The road is still long but we are moving forward. There is still a lot of work to do in terms of transitional allowances, increased administrative support, and a reflection on gradual and adapted return to the workplace when a person is in a situation of mourning. All these projects should be started as soon as possible, and here too, I welcome the initiative of some colleagues, particularly Mrs Vanrobaeys, who are working on them. Finally, I think we have worked collectively. It has sometimes taken time, it has not always been simple, but I think that all colleagues have had as their objective and constant concern, dignity towards these families. I thank all the colleagues in this committee who worked on this text, particularly Mrs Lanjri, who brought this text from the beginning to the end, as well as my colleague Evita Willaert, who unfortunately could not be present today but wanted to stress her support for this bill. Unsurprisingly, we will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, so far, anyone who lost her child or partner was entitled to three days' bereavement leave. Three days to go through the worst test of his life. Returning to work after such a short period of time is inhuman. For several years, our group had been trying to resolve this aberration, without finding any consensus, leaving many families in disarray. Today, I am particularly pleased, as well as my group, to have strongly supported a proposal that responds to the terrible difficulties experienced by bereaved workers. This text gives the right to ten days' absence for these difficult debts. It's probably not enough yet, but it's a step forward. This will allow these experienced people to be recognized in this ordeal and to take the time necessary to cross it with more serenity. Beyond the three fixed days, the additional days may be chosen during the year following the death. This flexibility responds to a very real need: first birthday, first school year, family holidays... All these steps can now be recognized as being too painful to work, although we are not sick. In addition, during these days of absence, 100% remuneration will be guaranteed for employees. It was essential not to add loss of income to pain and administrative overload. This was a priority for our group. It is therefore a highlight today for all these women and men who will now benefit from better protection during this period of great vulnerability, which is the loss of a child or partner. Thank you to all the groups for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, everyone is unfortunately faced with loss and mourning sooner or later. The death of a child, a partner, a parent, a family member or loved one has a major emotional impact on the next of kin. For many years it has been clear that the regime of mourning leave no longer met social reality. On the death of the husband, wife or partner, only three days of mourning leave were granted to deal with all administrative and practical matters. In the short term, it is also impossible for the next of kin to deal with all the burdens of death and funeral, let alone give the person concerned time to let in and grieve. The scheme of leave for mourning is, at least, obsolete and did not take into account any new forms of cohabitation, such as newly created families and partners with a social contract. The same three days of mourning were given at the time of the death of a child, which is such a profound event for parents that the three days were almost accepted as an injustice. For years, interest groups of next of kin and parents of young deceased children have been trying to drive politicians fruitlessly to adjust that mourning leave. Several political groups tabled a proposal. The Vlaams Belangroep also submitted a proposal to deal with mourning leave on the ground. We suggested taking those three days of mourning leave to ten days. We realize, of course, that even ten days is too short to deal with such a profound event. It is therefore only fair that this extension of mourning leave should finally be regulated by law. In many cases, those concerned took sick leave because the old scheme was not feasible, but mourning is not a disease. It is an essential part of the processing in the event of a loss. The Flemish Interest Group will, of course, support the extension of mourning leave, but the law cannot yet be entirely satisfied. A number of changes are still making, as in committee, our eyebrows frowning. Officials were already given four days' mourning leave at the time of the death of a parent, and this would have been the best opportunity to provide this for the workers. We do not understand that such inequality is once again being built in. It is not an unnecessary luxury to reconcile the statutes of employees and civil servants. We are therefore tabling an amendment in plenary to address the discrepancy. After all, it would not make sense to grant three days' mourning leave to one category of workers and four days' mourning leave to the other category. In addition, it remains a very important focus that parents of starchildren remain in the cold until now. In this situation, however, sick leave or even maternity leave can be obtained for medical reasons. However, there is no provision for the father. Mrs Lanjri, I know we already had this discussion in committee, but I would like to explain. If a child dies after 180 days of pregnancy, the civil servant shall draw up a record of a lifeless child. Where a child has died after a period of pregnancy of 140 days to 190 days, the civil status official shall draw up, on the basis of a medical certificate and at the request of the mother, father or co-mother who is married to the mother or who has received a prenatal recognition, or at the request of the father or co-mother who has not married the mother or has recognised the father or father and has, with the consent of the mother, an act of a lifeless child. The two provisions mentioned above, which can be found in Article 58, § 1 and § 2 of the Civil Code, meet the legitimate wishes of foster parents or parents who are confronted with a death birth by miscarriage. It would therefore not only be illogical, but also not in line with the ratio legis of the Civil Code, to distinguish between the two situations mentioned above, in which, in one situation, a given maternity leave would serve as a mourning leave and in the other situation, no mourning leave would be granted. To meet this, we believe that parents who are confronted with a stillborn child by miscarriage, referred to in Articles 58, § 1 and § 2, are indeed both entitled to a mourning leave. I am therefore tabling amendments to this effect. The extension of mourning leave is a first step in the right direction, but we are far from there. We still believe that when parents, in-laws, stepparents and siblings died, an extension to seven days would have been desirable, and for grandparents and grandchildren an extension to three days. I would like to dwell on a number of important issues relating to the mourning. I started that. The death of a loved one has a major emotional impact on the next of kin. After the first shock to cope with the loss, the next of kin is confronted almost immediately with an administrative and financial malle mill associated with this loss. In the event of a partner's loss, all of a sudden it is necessary to cover all financial charges, such as the payment of the rent or the payment of a property, the payment of household and utilities costs. This brings with it additional financial and organisational concerns on top of the grief. Therefore, additional support measures for widows and widowers in particular need to be taken. I am thinking of the following initiatives: net payment of the survivor's pension and transitional benefits as non-taxable compensation in order to avoid high tax charges; the urgent need for a single central reporting point to assist the person concerned in the administrative handling of a death and, as long as there are students and if a number of conditions are met, pay a transitional allowance. Our group will help to support this bill and we look forward to supporting initiatives to make the whole process of mourning more bearable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the disappearance of a spouse or child is not being treated and the person suffering this tragedy does not want a medical certificate to treat his or her sentence. It's a trauma that deeply upsets a family. The surviving spouse needs to be supported and, even if the bereavement is experienced differently by each, three days of bereavement leave does not meet the reality of these families. That is true, many bills on the subject have been tabled in Parliament in order to better support these people. It was therefore necessary to find the common denominator of these and to achieve concrete results. The Social Affairs Committee naturally seized the subject and hearings were held with stakeholders on the ground and several associations were organised to better identify the needs. Because the sadness associated with loss and the difficult process of mourning are often compounded by financial difficulties, heavy administrative procedures and the complete change of organization for the family. The hearings highlighted several aspects. Three days' absence from work, four days for public servants are ultimately only able to manage practical and administrative details, including the organization of funerals. In addition, this system is non-existent for the self-employed. The reality also shows that families use medical certificates to give themselves time to overcome this sad news. The hearings also showed that everyone is grieving differently, that it is very personal. One will need to go back to work very quickly, others will need more time to land and some will never return to work. But everyone agrees on the lack of psychological support received as a result of this tragedy. The financial difficulties, the lack of knowledge of the existing aids and the cumbersome administrative procedures are a fact, all of which when the surviving spouse or the parent is already living in an indescribable emotional state. The hearings therefore show a clear need for recognition of the difficult situation experienced by these families. In the face of this, three days are of course derisory. We then agreed on an extension of this bereavement leave for the loss of a life partner or child, whether it be the biological child, the partner's child, the adopted child or the foster child for a long-term stay. This leave will now be increased from three to ten days, from four to ten for the public service, and it will be created for the self-employed, for whom nothing previously existed. Some called for longer leave, 20 days or more. But after many exchanges, three reasons led us to increase the bereavement leave to ten days. This is first of all the question of the organisation of work within the enterprise. It must be admitted that too long a absence can harm the enterprise, especially if it is an SME. Then, financially, for the employer, it is also a cost to be overcome. I would add that, in the proposal we are submitting to you, we are planning funding under the scheme of small unemployment. In the event that the worker prolongs his absence by a medical certificate, the additional days would be deducted from the guaranteed month of pay, in order to limit the impact for employers. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, it is impossible for the policy to precisely define an adequate number of days. As I said earlier, we are not equal in the face of mourning. The important thing for us was to recognize that the mourning of a spouse or child is not part of the usual pattern of life, regardless of the other improvements that can be made in terms of administrative, financial or psychological support. I too would like to thank my colleague Nahima Lanjri for his determination to see this dossier and all the other Members of the committee complete. Today we are taking a big step. We must continue the work and offer full support to these families, better psychological support, as I said, simplified administrative procedures, and improvement of the transitional allowance. I have tabled a bill to that effect. I hope that, again, we can work together in the same way on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when a child or partner is lost, time seems to stand still. The clocks tick, the world around you continues but your world collapses. The loss of a loved one, as we all know, is therefore very profound. However, people are expected to be back and ready to go back to work after just three days after the death of a child or partner. Self-employed people do not even have one day's mourning leave at the time of the death of a partner, a child or someone close to them. Whether one was confronted with the loss of one's neighbor or not, we all feel that three days is actually bitterly little. It is even barely enough and even insufficient to arrange the practical matters of a funeral. Let alone that there would be enough time to deal with the administrative burden involved. The next of kin have to go from one body to another: to the bank, to the school of the children, to the employer, to the retirement service, to the notary and I can continue in a moment. There's no time to dwell on that profound loss. Today, therefore, mourners often take sick leave, but mourning is not a disease. It is a basic right and it is therefore time to recognise that right to mourn. I am therefore very relieved that the legislative proposal before us includes an acknowledgement of mourning. The text as it stands today is the result of good cooperation with various partners, not only in this House but also outside. In the first phase we organised a hearing with various civil society organisations and non-profit organisations such as Odos, Kom op tegen Kanker, the Family Association, La Ligue des Familles, the trade unions, and the employers' organisations. I want to thank them for their contributions and their views on the matter. With their experience and expertise, we have started to work and have further adapted my legislative proposal that was the basis. The result is the bill that is now before us. I would therefore like to thank my Vivaldic colleagues for their efforts to achieve this result, namely Sophie Thémont, Laurence Reuter, Evita Willaert, Tanja De Jonge, Anja Vanrobaeys, Marie-Colline Leroy and also Christophe Bombled. I am also very pleased that the opposition was very closely involved in this proposal and also proposed an amendment that we have accepted. The proposal was therefore adopted unanimously in committee. Some things are so fundamental, ladies and gentlemen, that, despite the differences of opinion and despite the different ideology and political preferences, we still find each other to take initiatives that can make a difference in the lives of many people. The extension of mourning leave is a very good example of this. I would also like to explain the specific provisions of my legislative proposal. The bill now before us extends the three-day mourning leave, or four days in the case of civil servants, to ten days in the event of the loss of a child or a partner. The partner, with which one can be married or legally or factually live together, does not matter. Ten days that won't be enough to go through the whole grieving process. We know that, too. But it is an important signal in the form of recognition and it gives mourners time to reflect on the sadness of that enormous loss. It also gives them the opportunity to catch their breath and settle some practical issues. This new regime will not only apply to employees and civil servants, as is the case today. From now on, it will also apply to self-employed persons, and that is new. In this way we bring the three statutes closer together and ensure that the self-employed do not remain in the cold. After all, the loss of a child or partner is always as profound and does not depend on the status that one has. In the context of long-term foster care, we also open this scheme to foster children, foster mothers, foster fathers or co-mothers in that case. The foster parents also establish a close relationship with their foster children, who sometimes stay in the family for years. It is therefore only natural for foster parents to have the right to mourn when they lose their foster child. For children in short-term foster care, we foresee that when the foster child dies, the foster parents can take a day to attend the foster child's funeral. The legislative proposal represents an important improvement, namely the flexibilisation of the inclusion of mourning leave. Grieving is something individual, everyone does this in a different way. Of the ten days there are in principle, I do say in principle, three to take between the time of death and the funeral. The other seven days can be chosen during the year of death. That may be later, for example, if one is having a hard time during the Christmas period, on the day of the wedding anniversary or on the day of the child's birthday. It may also be common to need leave later in the year. By mutual agreement and agreement with the employer, one can also deviate from this scheme and, for example, it is perfectly possible to take a day's mourning leave two years after the date. It is also possible that we do not take mourning leave immediately and take it later. For example, if the child dies abroad and there is no immediate flight. I'm thinking of the corona period, where the airspace was sometimes closed. In these cases, one may wish to take mourning leave later. We are also convinced that a lot of employers will really understand and will be able and willing to respond to this. Grieving is an individual process that everyone experiences in their own way. For example, some people want to get back to work immediately to change their minds, while others do need rest. The latter will record those ten days in one go. It is crucial that people can find their own way to cope with the heavy loss. That is why we must be free to allow the next of kin to take that mourning leave when they really need it. In practical terms, the increase in mourning leave is tantamount to an extension of short-term leave or, in the case of civil servants, temporary leave. This expansion of the small will therefore have no or only a very limited financial impact for the employer as we already find today that many people with the three days they had did not come. They then took sick leave and were covered by the guaranteed wage during that period. Suppose someone who has three days' mourning leave would take seven more days, then those seven days will be covered by the guaranteed wage. In other words, there is no financial impact for the employer. Grieving is not a disease and it is therefore logical that people should be able to take mourning leave instead of sick leave. If the additional days were followed by a period of incapacity for work or illness, those additional days would in some cases be deducted from the guaranteed wage. In those cases where the period of guaranteed pay is exceeded. Also for the self-employed there is now a benefit which will be further implemented by the King. I call on Minister Clarinval to do something about it. I would ask the ministers present to pass on the message. We are counting on the self-employed not to stand in the cold and the KB to get there soon. As I said before, death makes no distinction and does not look at the statute. It is necessary and finally time to provide something for the self-employed as well. Colleagues, as you can also read, it is an important proposal that actually provides better support for people going through the most difficult period of their lives. Politically, we cannot solve everything, we cannot take away the grief, but we can try to support the people in it as best we can. I therefore hope that you will approve that bill again with unanimity. That has happened in committee, and I hope that this can happen again tonight. We are therefore taking an important step forward. However, this does not mean that we can now sit back. Whoever knows me knows I'm not like that. The work is definitely not finished. We can and will have to put our hands together again to ease the suffering of those who lose their loved ones. I am thinking, for example, of reducing the administrative burden of death, setting up a central information point, improving widow's pension and transitional benefits. I am also thinking of better guidance for the next of kin. More attention should also be paid to the workplace for processing and dealing with the loss. We would also like to see further harmonisation with the Staff Regulations, but of course this cannot be done immediately. We have now taken a huge step forward, but there is still a lot of work to be done, for example for the funeral leave of step-sisters or brothers. You know I'm in favour of that, too. I'm sure there will be. Hopefully we will be able to work on this in the near future. I hope that we can work together again in all these areas and take steps forward. I would especially like to thank you today for working together to achieve the present result. I think we should be proud of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we will support this bill because it is a significant step forward. I will not repeat what my colleagues have said. I had been particularly struck by the absence of a change in this law since 1963. For this reason alone, and despite insufficient progress, we have fully supported this text in committee. As some have pointed out, it seemed essential to recognize these families. It was pointed out that several of the persons concerned were on sick leave after three days, for lack of other possibilities. It is, in any case, a fragment of reality. However, we must not forget other aspects. Indeed, after three days, many people do not follow this path. Because the workers are willing and conscientious; they do not want to jeopardize the working conditions of their colleagues. Therefore, they force themselves to go to work, accompanied by all their suffering. After a while, however, they crack and go under the diet of disease. This is not good for those concerned or for social security, just as it is not, in a way, good for employers. That question really affected us. We would like to stress the need for a royal decree in this area. We can no longer afford to wait, if only a few months, to enforce this bill. Of course, in committee, we discussed a great deal of dissatisfaction with what was proposed, but the atmosphere was rather constructive. Many amendments have been tabled in order to bring us even closer to the demands of the field. We have introduced them ourselves, as have other parties, but they have not been retained. It is in this sense that the proposal as submitted this evening seems to us to be moderately satisfactory. The auditions were rich enough in teachings. I felt that all the demands on the ground were rather accepted by the various political groups. However, when we had to take note of this through the bill, we were unable to reach the consensus that would have allowed us to go further. As has been pointed out, and without going into detail, we are going to go from three to ten days in the event of the death of a partner or child - whether for the self-employed or the civil servants. From the point of view of combating discrimination, this last aspect is important. However, we continue to wonder why we could not agree on the possibility of integrating the death of a parent, brother or sister. It seems to us very subjective to decide whether or not the suffering is greater depending on the degree of kinship of the deceased. Of course, we are among those who wish to spend three to twenty days for the death of a child. We therefore regret the lack of agreement on this matter. Similarly, we deplore the mechanism described by Mrs Lanjri, on the basis of which part of the income is withdrawn from the person concerned if, at the end of the ten days, he is not well and falls under the sickness regime. In our view, this is not logical at all. Nevertheless, we will support the proposal as presented here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u18	Thank you, Madam President. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that I am repeating myself, but I would like to stress that today we are taking an important step in a very sensitive and emotional subject: the extension of mourning leave in the event of the death of a child or a partner. That is always a profound event that draws your life and we hope that people will be spared from it. Farewell changes life forever. Grief cannot be converted into days. In addition to the grief one is confronted with all practical problems. You cannot assume that an employee, a self-employed person or an official will be back on his feet after three days after such a dramatic and dramatic event. An extension of mourning leave in the event of the death of a child or a partner is therefore entirely justified. The changes therefore respond to developments in society. We also take into account newly created families, because the funeral leave is also granted in case of the loss of a family member next to the resident partner. The government agreement also states that different leave systems must be harmonised. There must be coherence. Not only should the length and the way in which the various types of employment are taken up and the level of pay ments of the various types of employment be logically related, but we should also ensure equal treatment as far as possible between civil servants, employees and the self-employed. Because of the special nature of mourning leave, it was rightly decided to clarify this. It is best to analyse the various forms of leave to see if they can be viewed in their context. It is clear that not all leave schemes are eligible for this. The employer will have to pay for these additional days of mourning. On the other hand, after the loss of a child or a partner, it is not easy to get along quickly. If the worker affected is unable to work for a period of time following the death of the deceased, we have avoided that the costs will only be borne by the employer as a result of this extension. One important aspect that I would like to mention, and which I have often raised in committee, is the reception of the workers affected in the workplace. I've seen it up close after the death of two members of staff. It was heartbreaking. On the work floor it was quiet and everyone struggled with the same question: how can we take our colleague well? The loss of a child is never dealt with. Dealing with this in the workplace is crucial. In our organisation, for example, we called on the social services to assist the staff and give tips. I am convinced that many employers are also sensitive to this and want and can play an important role in assisting their staff in this important processing process. The way in which this very profound event is handled differs from one person to another. Some will be in the inability to work for a long time; others will find a way to pick up the thread as far as possible. Employers can be even better supported in this. Internal and external services for prevention and protection at work can also help them. How is a plan being drawn up to support these people as effectively as possible? How do we inform colleagues? How do you guide them? We have been thinking of including this in the legislation, but this is mainly a matter of recommendations and soft directives. We will ask the Minister of Work how he intends to strengthen the support of employers in this and what has already happened in this area. I would like to thank all my fellow Members very much for coming to this fine proposal, in particular Mrs Lanjri, who has been the trigger of this dossier. I think we've made a difference across party boundaries today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would say: finally. Finally, a step forward is being taken in recognising that mourning is not a disease, but simply the result of a profound event that takes time to reflect. First of all, I would like to thank all civil society organisations, such as the trade unions, the Family Union, Come up against cancer, non-profit organisation Odos but also Hannelore Bedert for her very courageous testimony. Their input and the testimony have ensured that this dossier has finally accelerated after 20 years. As a result, everyone agreed that the current three-day mourning leave is inhumanely low. Those three days do not even allow the funeral and other administration to be arranged, let alone that one can get a moment from the shock or stop at the grief. Grieving is indeed a personal thing and we can never grieve in days. After every heavy loss, ten days of mourning leave should be taken for granted. That was what our original bill provided for. This bill grants ten days of small dereliction when a partner or child is lost. That is a first step in the right direction. Of course, mourning leave is independent of the statute. Whether one is a worker, an official or a self-employed person, grief is no different according to the status in which one works. Everyone mourns in their own way and it's a personal journey. That is why I think it is important that the additional seven days that we allocate can be flexibly included in the year after death. One can use them to bridge difficult periods such as a birthday or a wedding day, but also at a time when it is difficult and one needs time to rest and come to oneself. Another important recognition is the extension to foster parents. This is an important recognition of their commitment. It is also an acknowledgement that in long-term foster care they establish a relationship with their foster children who are truly family ties and give them the same right to the ten-day leave of mourning. Same with short-term foster care where people take care of children who are having a hard time. If they do so, they must have the right, in the event of crisis, to say goodbye to their child in a dignified manner on the day of the farewell ceremony. The extension of mourning leave that is before us today is indeed a step forward. However, the hearings that we held in committee showed that there is much more we can do to assist people when they lose a loved one. At such a difficult time they are confronted with a very administrative mess in which they lose themselves. They're on their own, too. The costs they otherwise carried with two must now be borne alone. The invoices are running up and the accounts are sometimes blocked for months. With our Group on the Move forward, we believe that at such a time of difficulty there is a need for a strong government that should be able to assist people better than is currently the case. That is why I have tabled a resolution to better frame their situation at such a time. That resolution includes a central point of contact for administrative support, better transitional allowance for young widows and widowers who suddenly stand alone, guidance for those who need it and professional psychological guidance for those who otherwise do not come out of mourning and need additional support, but also an update for the invoices that can be paid from those blocked accounts. That too is an arrangement that dates back to the years of quiet. Internet subscriptions and childcare costs, for example, are not automatically paid from those blocked accounts. It sometimes takes a lot of phone calls and extra administrative burdens to settle those matters, which we consider so obvious, after the death of the partner. Mrs Lanjri, I would like to thank you for putting the bill at the forefront and drawing attention to it. I would also like to thank all my fellow Members for their constructive cooperation. It is true that we are making a difference by unanimously approving it. On the other hand, I also hope that, in the same constructive atmosphere, we can continue to work together on the points that we have all listed here and which are also included in my resolution. I hope that we will be able to make a difference there for those who suffer a heavy loss. Dank u wel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u20	Madam President, I would also like to pay tribute to the work of everyone, and more particularly of Nahima Lanjri. Remember, we had already tried to move the lines under previous legislatures, but this time it is! Ladies and gentlemen, I find that this text, in substance, is much and little at a time. This is a lot, because it is a step, with minimal recognition of the vital need to take time in the face of such tragedies of life. Among all the tragedies, losing a child is probably the worst one can live in. We can take this time, without having to justify ourselves, or hide behind a medical certificate. At the same time, it is little, because it is not the days that will soothe the pain. Ten days, it remains little in the face of suffering. It's a long-standing fight. However, it is a famous step that has been taken today. I would like to raise two points of attention. First, the text requires an agreement from the employer. It will therefore be necessary for us to assess and ensure that a worker's request to take his days off in the year will be honoured. Attention should be paid to any form of inequity. Some employers – the majority, I think – will accept it, but others may not necessarily do so. In such situations, strong protection must be provided. It therefore seems to me important to examine the possibility for people who are in mourning to decide for themselves the ten days and the period in which they wish to take these ten days. The second point of attention, which others have mentioned, is the following. When we are confronted with a death, and especially among the most painful, there is, in the background, a feeling of terrible loneliness. Sometimes it is compensated by relatives, but not always. To this feeling is added an administrative maze, a financial maze, a banking maze, a maze in search of support. All this accompaniment in pain still remains, despite all the competent levels of power, a path, a job, a project that we will absolutely have to carry out, all levels and all skills combined. We will of course vote on this text, which has been blocked for a long time under the previous legislatures. For us, it was an important fight. I am delighted that a first step can be taken today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this health crisis has shown enough: the mental health of our fellow citizens is as indispensable as it is precious. Mental health is the one that determines, in the same way as physical health, our state of well-being. Taking into account the aspects of mourning that have been minimized or trivialized so far, and for too long, this bill aims to contribute to the well-being of all those who are, one day, faced with mourning. Because today, the great forgotten of mourning is none other than the reasonable and necessary time to be able to live it. In the end, the current regulations only respond to one need: that of leaving the worker who has lost a relative the possibility of carrying out the innumerable formalities surrounding the death. In doing so, what do we do? We dehumanize mourning. We are reducing it to simple formalities. The mourning, which we have all been confronted with, is, however, much more than that. It's time to get together and rebuild with yourself and your loved ones. Today, the law leaves us three days after mourning, just three days. This is totally insufficient time, especially when a partner or child has been lost. As a result, most people who face such bereavement are forced to resort to sick leave or to draw on their normal days of leave. This work of mourning is therefore finally postponed with a certain feeling of illegitimacy which can lead to a kind of emotional impasse or even depression. This is a double penalty for the bereaved worker. As I said, therefore, I can only welcome the main measure provided for in this bill, namely the extension of the bereavement leave from three to ten days for the death of the worker's spouse or cohabiting partner and his or her child or that of his or her spouse or cohabiting partner. A further step forward is that the extension also applies to the foster parent for the death of a child placed in a long-term placement, even if the death occurred when the child was no longer placed with his or her foster parents. I also welcome the flexibility provided by this proposal, in that it allows these workers on leave of more than three days to take the remaining seven days within a period of one year from the day of death. This was fundamental because not everyone was grieving in the same way and, consequently, it was important to anticipate that everyone would be able to choose to take this leave at a time when they felt the need for it. Finally, these measures respond to the realities experienced by workers bereaved by the death of such a close person, while at the same time not entering the proper organization of work in enterprises. A worker who faces the death of a relative suffers an emotional and psychological burden such that he would in any case not have been able to provide work similar to that usually performed. On the other hand, if we give him the time to rebuild, he will be productive again. The other aspect of this bill, which I would like to highlight, is the consideration of the situation of self-employed workers and civil servants, thus bringing their system closer to that of employees with regard to bereavement leave. It is regrettable, however, that this differentiation has been maintained between working days and working days according to the scheme. Nevertheless, the advance is there, and it is to be greeted. However, it is only a step towards the full support to which bereaved workers are entitled at their workplace with, for example, organisational or psychological administrative support. Cooperation with federated entities must also be pursued in this regard in order to better target how to achieve more prevention and care. Employers, the main players in these measures, also need to be made more aware. It is therefore with great enthusiasm, ladies and gentlemen, that we will support this bill, of which I would like to thank the authors. We will be paying attention to its implementation and to the work still to be done today in order to take better account of all the suffering of bereaved workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u22	Madam President, I would like to respond very briefly to a number of concerns. Mrs Fonck, you are concerned about whether the employer will allow the days that can be taken during the year. The legislative proposal is very clear in this respect. People have the right to record them within the year anyway. That's a fixed right. In addition, by agreement with the employer one can deviate from that year by, for example, taking up another day after one and a half years. However, if it is done within the legal time limit, it is the employee's right. I would like to take your concern away from that. Mrs Samyn, I have already said in committee that I understand your position. It should be possible to take mourning leave for the still-born children, the starchildren. The bill allows that, too. With an act of civil status one can go to the employer. The documents to be submitted are regulated in the domestic regulations of companies and organisations, but the bill does allow this type of mourning leave. Finally, Mrs Rohonyi, I come to the debate on working days or calendar days. For workers, it is the days on which the current legislation states that they have the right to be absent from work for three days. Being absent from work naturally includes that it is about working days. Days when people do not have to work are not working days. For people who work weekends, that's also a working day. I do not think there is any problem in that regard. I would like to reassure you, and I hope that we can vote unanimously in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u23	Mrs Lanjri, you know that this is not quite the same. With the amendment, we are ensuring that it is equal for all. I do not want to discuss this further, because I do not think that is appropriate in this debate. Please accept the amendment, then it is the same for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u24	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u25	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (643/10) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (643/10) The title has been changed by the Commission to "a bill extending the bereavement leave granted on the death of the partner or child and making it more flexible to take the bereavement leave". The title was changed by the Committee to "legislative proposal to extend mourning leave in the event of the death of a partner or child and to make the admission of mourning leave more flexible." The bill has 14 articles. The bill has 14 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u26	• 41 - Ellen Samyn (643/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u27	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u28	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u29	Madam President, this draft law was given urgency and was introduced in committee on 2 June. The further discussion and the vote took place on 9 June. The draft law is intended to prepare the multi-band auction for 3G, 4G and 5G, which will soon be organised. The draft law aims to determine the amount of the single charge per frequency band that operators will have to pay once for their spectrum licences for a total of 20 years. The introduction of Minister De Sutter showed that a knowledge and learning platform will be developed to better inform citizens about 5G. Consideration will also be given to the impact of 5G on health and energy consumption. The government plans to set up a scientific advisory body composed of experts. The revenues of the auction will be blocked until agreement has been reached on the distribution between the federal government and the Communities. The Deputy Prime Minister stated that discussions are still ongoing on whether or not a spectrum will be reserved for a fourth and thus new mobile operator. If the law and the implementing decisions are published in the Belgian Official Journal, BIPT will need another six months to prepare the auction. During the discussion, Mr Freilich of N-VA tabled an amendment in order not to retain frequencies at which only new market players can offer. Mr Freilich said that the government should be careful to manipulate the market. He also stated that the European regulatory framework regards the reservation of a spectrum as an exception. Mr Vicaire van Ecolo-Groen indicated his support for the draft law. Mrs Dierick of CD&V considered that coverage should be as broad and high-quality as possible. She asked questions about the minimum coverage and availability of 5G throughout the territory. Finally, she stressed the concern about the potentially dangerous effects of electromagnetic radiation on health. Mr Ben Accour of the PS stated that his group is certainly not opposed to 5G. Although 5G offers new economic opportunities, it also raises legitimate concerns which need to be heard and which need to be anticipated. Mr Gilissen of Flemish Interest commented on the beneficial economic effects. As regards the potential impact on health, he recalled that this item was already on the agenda of the Consultation Committee on 12 February 2021. It was then decided to order a study on this subject. Finally, he had questions about the revenues from the 5G rights auction and its distribution between the Regions. He noted that no distribution key has been established so far and that the distribution will have to be done more quickly than at the previous auction. Mr D'Amico pointed out that the PVDA-PTB Group was opposed to the auction of 5G licences. He felt that such a network should not be held by the private market. The speaker asked that the planning and target group for the deployment of the 5G network be based on existing needs. He regretted that such planning would be made impossible if the network were entrusted to several private operators. Mrs Depraetere van Vooruit stressed that this is an important bill. As regards the possible arrival of a fourth operator, it considered that there was still room for manoeuvre on the Belgian market and that several foreign examples show that this would benefit the consumer. As regards the reservation of frequencies and the future auction, she asked whether certain operators had already shown interest. Mr Prévot of CdH stressed that the aim of the draft law was to define the status of the old 2G and 3G bands. It also provides the impetus for the future reflection exercise on the advent of 5G technology. Mrs Kathleen Verhelst of Open Vld welcomes this new step, which is important and pushes the dossier in the right direction. The amendment of the N-VA was rejected by 11 votes to 3, by N-VA and 2 abstentions of the Flemish Interest. In the final vote, all the groups voted in favour, except the N-VA and PVDA-PTB who voted against. There were no abstinences.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u30	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on the draft law which is the first step towards finally getting 5G on the train in this country. Europe uses the so-called DESI, an index that indicates where each country stands in terms of 5G-readiness. Belgium is in a very nice place, at the bottom of the 27th place. In football we may be the first, but when it comes to 5G we're on the back. That is why my group welcomes the fact that these frequencies are finally being sold, because 5G is and remains important for the regions, for Belgium but also for Flanders. In this country, we don't get much raw materials from the ground anymore. We don't have a big manufacturing industry anymore either. Our economy must have the services, the advances of high-tech and technology. Flanders wants to continue to play a leading role in this. We can't do that without 5G. That must be very clear. So we must do everything we can to make up for the delays we have experienced as quickly as possible. This is a good step. It is a step in the right direction that should have been taken before. It's good that this is happening now. However, I am concerned about what is on the table today. I base myself on a number of documents that have reached us and also you, Madam Minister. There is a potential legal uncertainty as a result of non-compliance with all the conditions of the European Electronic Communications Code, the ECCC, if a new player were to be allocated spectrum after this draft law. What is the reservation of spectrum about? That means a new player from the government gets a blank check to be on the market here. That new telecom operator should not participate in the auction. I've had it calculated on how much money that's going to be. Assuming the amounts in the bill, it is about €92 million that a new player will have to pay in order to get spectrum. This also means that if part of the spectrum is reserved for the existing players, they will be bidding against each other. This could amount to EUR 1 billion or EUR 1.5 billion. This means that the three operators will have to pay some EUR 500 million, while the new fourth operator will pay a small EUR 90 million. I don't care who pays how much. That's not really our case, we could say. Jem'en fous that the big companies pay more, because that's not really our problem either. It is our problem if 5G would be delayed again. Just before that we are warned, not by an agency, not by 2 bodies, but by 3 different bodies, one of which is even the Flemish government. I quote from a letter from Benjamin Dalle's cabinet, Minister for Media, to your cabinet: 'On the basis of the present file, there is equally great legal uncertainty as to whether all the substantive and procedural conditions required by European law were met for the reservation of spectrum bands for a possible new operator'. The same goes for Agoria in a letter. It says that spectrum reservation is possible, but it is an exceptional measure. Finally, I have a letter from the GSMA from Great Britain. That says the following:This implies that any interested party with the intention of rendering or laying 5G could use this procedure as an argument in legal proceedings. If you do not pay attention and reserve spectrum according to the criteria you now appear to be applying, then anyone who wishes to do so can appeal to the court and there are plenty of anti-5G activists against it, which means that the whole procedure must be restarted from scratch. That's what the GSMA warns us about. I want to save you from that, Madam Secretary. What did I propose with my amendment? It is a pity that it was voted off in committee, but I would like to retable it in plenary today so that we can not say later that we did not know. A donkey doesn't hit the same stone twice. I do not see any donkeys in this Chamber, so I suppose my amendment will be supported. What's it about? Let me be very clear. A fourth, fifth or sixth player is welcome. Every player, until 11 I understand, is welcome, but we must ensure that we continue to respect the rules that Europe has issued. What does Europe say? If there is evidence of a market distorted by competitiveness, or if there is no competitive market, then in certain circumstances it is possible to remedy a number of issues, but that remedy must be proportionate and disclosed to the various operators in that country. A preferential treatment for a new operator can, but then one must be able to demonstrate that there is a major problem. I quote from a report, the Executive Summary of the BIPT of April 2021, not so long ago. It says on the mobile market that it is characterised by competition through infrastructure between three general mobile operators. Unlike the fixed market, which has only two network operators, the Belgian mobile market is not characterised by major competition problems that require or facilitate ex ante intervention. I repeat, therefore, the Belgian mobile market is not characterised by major competition problems. This is stated in a BIPT report of April 2021. I am therefore surprised that I read in De Standaard tonight that it suddenly says something completely different. I don't understand. Is that because there is pressure from the Cabinets? I don't know, but what I'm reading to you here can download anyone. It's in writing. Then we have the Competition Authority, which decided last month that the acquisition of Mobile Vikings by Proximus was in order, that it was not a problem. There is therefore no competition problem in the Belgian telecoms market with regard to mobile operators. What does my amendment say? In the case of the allocation of frequencies through an auction, which we are talking about today, no frequencies can be reserved at which only new market players can offer. However, I would add that the previous paragraph does not apply when BIPT, taking into account market conditions and available benchmarks based on an objective and prospective approach similar to the approach provided for in Article 55 of this law, recommends that frequencies be retained but only for existing players. In the above opinion, BIPT must demonstrate that the measure is proportionate, taking into account in particular the impact it may have on the market. What does it say, anyway? That we can or may reserve spectrum in the future, but we must see that European legislation is respected in this respect. Article 52 of the ECCC has not yet been transposed into Belgian law. I don't know why, and you might be able to tell me when that happens later. What am I doing? I am taking some of the European legislation that we must transpose here in any case, and I am introducing it through an amendment. I don't do any more than that. I am adopting legislation on which everyone agrees, which states that, if we want to reserve spectrum, we must be able to demonstrate that there is a competition problem. If one cannot prove that, one has an effective problem and then people will also wonder how a fourth player can do without a competition problem. Why is that? Does that have anything to do with boyfriend politics? We must avoid that. Of course, it's a lot of money, but let's use the basis that we have a free market, where everyone has a level playing field. When Proximus started, it had to start from scratch. When Telenet started, it also had to build a mobile network. Other players are welcome to do the same. If we help these people by saying that they should not participate in the auction, but that they should come into our market for a substantial reduction of hundreds of millions of euros, then there is a chance that everyone will go to court to have this whole procedure annulled. That's what I'm trying to save you from. Not just you, Madam Secretary, but all colleagues, because you are not going to vote tonight. It is all colleagues who will vote. I want to save you from that. A warned man is worth two, I'll tell everyone here. If a procedure is started tomorrow or next year and 5G goes back to the wastebasket, don't say we didn't warn you. Don't say I'm closing the initiative to admit a fourth player in the future. I do not say that explicitly in my terms. On the contrary, there may be, but we must follow the rules, namely: a market investigation, demonstrating that there is a competition problem, a proportionate solution and also the disclosure to the various players. Don't tell me I'm taking a preliminaries on what's going to be discussed at the Conciliation Committee. No, on the Conciliation Committee, I still allow you to talk about a fourth or fifth player. Hence my question, ladies and gentlemen. What I'm proposing here isn't really rocket science. We are taking part in European legislation that has not yet been transposed into Belgian legislation and are already implementing it. We ask that, if one thinks about a fourth player, the rules are respected, so that no one can go to court and that we do not keep that 27th place in Europe for years in terms of 5G-readiness. I also said it in committee: Petra De Sutter must not become Petra De Sputter. We can't sputter with 5G, we can't do that, we have to go for it. 5G is our future. Ladies and gentlemen, that future is in your hands today, after all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u31	Madam President, 5G is a very important issue that makes a lot of ink go down. The discussions do not end and it is now time to move forward. In June 2019, the European Commission called on Belgium to reach an agreement on the granting of 5G licences, a subject still blocked between the Federal and the Regions. A quick solution was therefore needed, especially since the commitment was made in the government agreement. Madam Minister, I would therefore like to congratulate you because you did not drag. As early as January last year, the Council of Ministers approved your bill and a series of royal decrees concerning 5G, which will finally pave the way for the auctioning of rights in Belgium. We know that the subject is particularly complex in our country, especially because of the different emission standards in force that differ from one Region to another. This issue was blocked under the previous legislature because the various levels of power could not agree. On 26 May last, the Concerted Committee concluded and approved the project allowing the auctioning of 5G licences. A key first step is planned for spring 2022. 5G must open up many opportunities in various fields: health, mobility, environment, energy, agriculture, safety, education, telework. The crisis that we are experiencing has only confirmed the needs. For these economic and societal reasons, it is imperative to move forward. My group supports progress in this area. The impact of 5G on the environment, health or data protection and privacy should not be avoided or minimized. This is why tools have been put in place. The Walloon Region has commissioned a multidisciplinary group of experts to assess these impacts and a knowledge and learning platform bringing together Sciensano and the Public Health FPS is about to emerge. For all these reasons, the MR Group will support the bill. We were also at the initiative of a draft resolution on the subject in 2019. Minister, we will be at your side to put in place the necessary conditions for everyone to adhere to both the deployment of fibre optics and the introduction of 5G, as provided for in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u32	Madam Chair, the purpose of the bill is to set the minimum single fee amounts for radio frequency user fees. The bill also addresses the need to reorganize the sufficiently wide blocks of the 3.6 GHz band and authorize their use to facilitate the deployment of 5G. This bill is therefore an essential step in preparing for the auction of 5G licences over a 20-year period. At the PTB, we are opposed to auctioning 5G licences because we believe that such a network should not be in the hands of private companies. The 5G network should be deployed and managed by a public enterprise, managed in a spirit of public service. Indeed, it is not sufficient for the State to hold 51 % of the capital of an undertaking to fulfil a public service task. The deployment of the 5G network must be planned and targeted where needs exist. Making the network available to several private operators would make planning impossible. On the other hand, the deployment and management of a single network by a public company will save infrastructure. With only one operator, we avoid the multiplication of antennas. This will consume much less energy and will also reduce exposure to electromagnetic waves. It would therefore be cheaper, healthier and less energy efficient. In addition, 5G will generate the collection of a huge volume of data. However, we are already seeing the drifts associated with the use of personal data for private companies. That is why we believe that democratic control over how data is collected is essential. Finally, it is clear that the operators who will purchase the licence will want to make the most of their investment. Their priority will therefore be to seek profit in order to pay their shareholders, whereas a public service, on the contrary, could use the revenues generated by 5G to lower the price of subscription for users and set itself the objective of ensuring that all access to the Internet is fast and free of charge. As you will understand, the PTB will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u33	Madam President, I would like to repeat, in particular, Mr Freilich's speech. We have already had the opportunity in committee to discuss the proposed amendment, which I was not and am not in favour of. You refer to a number of elements such as legal uncertainty and the financial elements, in terms of cost, if any, or if any players will pay. I'd like to give you the correct figures. It is true that a possible new player will receive 92 million euros for the reserved spectrum. You quoted that figure, and that is true, but you forget to say that the existing operators will also be able to obtain a EUR 73 million exemption and that 60% of the remaining revenue will be auctioned on equal terms between all players. That's actually the truth. As for the billion to one and a half billion you mentioned, please tell me where that figure comes from. As regards the legal conditions to be met, the BIPT study stated that there is no problem of access to the mobile market. A new, mobile, virtual network operator can boot without a barrier. That is not the same as saying that there would be a competition problem or not. That's not right at all. We know that in Belgium telecom prices, and also quality, are among the highest in Europe. The study ordered at the request of the Consultation Committee and carried out by Axon Partners shows very clearly that any new operator will lead to a reduction in prices, which is obviously in the consumer's interest. You mentioned the various reports, but you forgot about Test Purchase, which did draw the consumer's card. I have said it before: in all the additional studies that were ordered, different forms of impact were considered. Impact analyses cover different domains. If the prize is an important domain, there is no discussion that a possible fourth player will indeed lower the price, which will happen as a result of increasing competition. Finally, you also mentioned the argument of legal uncertainty. The transposition of the European code, i.e. Article 52 to which you refer, is planned to be submitted to Parliament after the recess. So we're working on it. Moreover, the legal opinion adopted by BIPT makes it clear that there will be no problem for the European Commission. On the contrary, as we discussed in the committee, there was spectrum reservation for existing operators during the public survey in 2017. It was only when that survey showed that there could be market interest for a possible fourth player that the fourth player added the spectrum reservation, just to create a level playing field for all operators. That is a better representation of reality. I would like to specify this in response to your statement. I repeat that, for me, the amendment is indeed a preliminaries to the Consultation Committee, in which Flanders itself asked to examine the legal uncertainty. It is true that Benjamin Dalle raised this on behalf of the Flemish Government. That is also why we come to Parliament with the law and send the royal decision to the Council of State to check it against that Article 52, in order to rule out possible legal uncertainty and to return with that certainty to the Conciliation Committee. As I have also pointed out in committee, it is not correct, through a federal amendment to the law, to cut short the discussion with the Communities and not to take into account the arguments of the various Communities and the adoption of the Council of State, to continue the debate there. Madam President, we exchanged the arguments in committee. I will keep my answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u34	Madam President, Madam Minister, I have not spoken of prizes. You do. According to Test Purchase, the Belgian telecom market is much more expensive than other countries. That's only partly true. After all, you should not forget that prices have fallen by 63 % since 2014. What I would like to give you is that an all-intelecom subscription with unlimited calls and unlimited dates or 20 GB of data costs 29.90 euros today at Base. In France, such a subscription costs 13 or 14 euros. We will never achieve that price. Axon also expects a maximum price drop of 13 %. The 30 euros will then be 27 or 26.50 euros. On the other hand, we are getting more consumption of energy. That's the beauty of 5G. Up to 27 % can be saved with 5G if the network is the same. Axon does say that, if there is a fourth player, all benefits in terms of energy will be eliminated. The same problem will be with the radiation. Especially Brussels is strict on radiation. With a fourth player, the radiation rises. If we consider all the elements mentioned, namely more energy, more radiation and a fall in prices from EUR 30 to around EUR 26.50 and legal uncertainty, then I think we should think twice about it. You also say that it is unfair to rule out now by means of an amendment that the government may later discuss it in the Conciliation Committee. So you are saying that the European rules should not be followed. After all, I am asking for the pure application of European rules. You would like to make it clear to me that for your reservation only if it has been clearly demonstrated that there is a problem of competition on the market and that Test Purchase is not the competent authority to assess that. Other reasons why our prices are somewhat more expensive are because we have a more stringent radiation standard in this country than the others, which means that more antennas are needed, because there are taxes on pylons and cell towers, which is not the case in other countries or because there is a smaller market. So I hear you today actually explain that we can make a reservation for a spectrum, even if there is no evidence that there is a competition problem. In that case, we have a problem. If you say no and say that I should not worry and that the government will only do so if it follows the rules of Europe, which is to show that there is a problem, why has Axon not been instructed to carry out a genuine and correct market study of competitiveness in this country? Why did you not be the first to ask, when you became Minister, for a real investigation, which we can also support for the European Commission? After all, that is not so easy. You cannot argue that Test Purchase claims that the prices are higher. That's not enough. I read in the Executive Summary of the BIPT of April 2021 that there may be a problem on the fixed network. There is a duopoly, Proximus for the whole country, on the one hand, and Telenet in Flanders and Voo in Wallonia, on the other. For fixed lines we may therefore have a problem according to the BIPT. However, there is no problem with mobile lines. That is why I am asking why no research is being carried out. How long would such an investigation take? Why didn't you request it immediately? When you entered the Chamber and said that you wanted to do so, I asked you about the situation of our country vis-à-vis other countries. The price is one thing, but if one looks at how much a Belgian household spends on telecommunications, one is at 2.1 % of the total household budget. This is on average 2.4 percent in Europe, so we are lower. There are countries such as Romania where one can get an all-subscription for 15 euros, but the salary is much lower there than here. We need to take all these elements into account, including the quality of the network, which is why I am asking why there is no report. What are we based on now to possibly go to a spectrum reservation? This is extremely important for me and for anyone who wants to participate in the market. So we still think that the amendment is useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u35	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u36	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2021/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2021/4) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u37	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment retained, the article retained and the whole will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u38	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 June 2021, I propose to extend until further notice the appointment of a French-speaking member and a Dutch-speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority (No. 2039/1). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 June 2021, I propose the appointment of a French-speaking member and a Dutch-speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority (No. 2039/1) until further notice. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u39	The list of three candidates nominated by the Council of State for a position of Dutch-speaking State Councillor was communicated to you during the plenary session of 3 June 2021. The list of three candidates nominated by the Council of State for a position of the Dutch-speaking State Council was communicated to you at the plenary session of 3 June 2021. Since the presentation is not unanimous, the Chamber may, in accordance with Article 70, § 1, paragraph 8, of the Acts on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, and within a period of not more than 30 days from the receipt of the communication of that presentation, either confirm the list submitted by the Council of State or present another list of three formally reasoned names. Since the nomination is not unanimous, the Chamber may, in accordance with Article 70 (1) (8) of the Laws on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, either confirm the list proposed by the Council of State within a maximum period of 30 days from the date of receipt of the notification of the nomination, or propose a second list of three names which are expressly reasoned. The time available to the Chamber to present another list or to confirm the list expires on 25 June 2021. The time limit available to the Court to propose a different list or to confirm the list shall expire on 25 June 2021. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 June 2021, I propose that you confirm the list presented by the Council of State. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 June 2021, I propose to confirm the list proposed by the Council of State. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u40	The Chamber must proceed to the vote on naturalizations, Nos. 2058/1 and 2. The Chamber should proceed to the secret ballot on naturalisations, Nos 2058/1 and 2. I propose that you proceed to this secret ballot during the plenary meeting on Thursday, 1 July 2021. I propose that you proceed to this secret vote at the plenary session of 1 July 2021. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: - Members may vote from Friday 18 June 2021 until Thursday 1 July 2021 at 4 p.m. Parliamentary documents are available to them in the General Secretariat. Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Members may vote from Friday 18 June 2021 until Thursday 1 July 2021 at 4 p.m. Parliamentary documents are available in the General Secretariat. I would remind you that: - Only members may vote. - The proposed naturalization laws cannot be signed and must be filed in the ballot box. - A member who does not intend to grant naturalization to an applicant will delete the name of the applicant from the list given to him. - The ballot paper will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday, 1 July 2021. I would remind you that: - Members only take part in the vote. - The proposal of naturalisation laws should not be signed and should be placed in the ballot box. - Where a member opposes the naturalisation of an applicant, he shall delete the name of the person concerned from the list supplied to him. - The urn with the ballots will be opened during the plenary session of Thursday 1 July 2021. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u41	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents, I propose that the following bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions: - the bill (Mr Daniel Bacquelaine, Mrs Caroline Taquin and Florence Reuter, MM. Christophe Bombled, Vincent Scourneau and Michel De Maegd, Ms Nathalie Gilson and Mr Benoît Piedboeuf) on the recognition of the tenability of the functions and professional activities carried out in the care sector for the conditions of access to the early pension and for the calculation of the amount of the pension, No 1634/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents, I propose that the following legislative proposal be sent to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions: - the legislative proposal (Mr Daniel Bacquelaine, Mrs Caroline Taquin and Mr Florence Reuter, Mr Christophe Bombled, Mr Vincent Scourneau and Mr Michel De Maegd, Mrs Nathalie Gilson and Mr Benoît Piedboeuf) on the recognition of the gravity of the duties and professional activities performed in the care sector for the conditions of access to early retirement and the calculation of the pension amount, No. 1634/1. This bill had previously been referred to the Health and Equal Opportunities Committee. This bill was previously sent to the Health and Equal Opportunities Committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents, I also propose that the following bill be referred to the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs: - the bill (MM. Denis Ducrame and Philippe Pivin and Caroline Taquin) amending the Act of 29 July 1934 prohibiting private militias, so that the prohibitions provided for in this Act are extended to cover associations inciting hatred, discrimination or violence, and allowing their dissolution by the executive branch, No. 2024/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents, I also propose that the following legislative proposal be sent to the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs: - the bill (Mr Denis Ducarme and Mr Philippe Pivin and Mrs Caroline Taquin) amending the law of 29 July 1934, prohibiting private militias, in order to extend the prohibition contained in that law to associations inciting hatred, discrimination or violence, and to enable the dissolution of those associations by the executive, No. 2024/1. This bill had previously been referred to the Justice Committee. This bill was previously sent to the Justice Commission. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u42	Mr Minister, in July 2020, Sciensano conducted a study on the length and mortality of COVID-19 in different hospitals. Mean and risk factors were presented. It was a nice study, which showed, among other things, that most patients stayed in the hospital for eight days and that the risk of death following hospitalisation was 21%. The greatest risk factor was found to be age. It therefore seems only logical that a public representative would like to gain more insight into that study to know whether there were only person-related risk factors or not, whether the organisation or location of a hospital could also play a role. Had the epidemic in certain places perhaps been particularly violent and what was the result for the hospitals? Were certain approaches more successful than others? In order to assess this, more details are needed. There must be an idea of the distribution of the data: how large were the differences between hospitals? These are important figures, where important information can be extracted. It was my job as a Member of Parliament to get those figures in the summer of 2020. In the meantime, I've been asking for details by hospital for almost a year. Every time I ask the same questions, every time a reply is refused, both by the government and by Sciensano. I wasn't the only one who cared about the numbers. The Belgian Consultative Committee on Bioethics and, for example, the Flemish Association of Chief Doctors, which we have heard in the framework of the special committee in charge of investigating Belgium's approach to the COOVID-19 epidemic, also considered it important that such figures be made public. Of course, that explanation and explanation by Sciensano does not preclude, quite the contrary. Minister, the figures are important. They can teach us a lot. It is unacceptable that there are sources of information that we do not call upon. It is a new infection, which became and is combated in every hospital with man and power. The government owes it to the hospitals and the care providers to take everything out of the closet to assist them. The figures are important because there will indeed be differences that need to be investigated. That can't be taboo. It's not my job to point the finger at hospitals or caregivers. Everyone, every care provider, has done their utmost in the pandemic. I don't doubt that, and I don't think anyone doubts that. It is therefore unacceptable that hospitals were not helped by providing their figures with which they could position themselves vis-à-vis others. Those figures would encourage you to look for improvement or help: another ventilation technique, a different positioning of the patient, dosage of medication, supplements, organization of services. But no, every hospital had to find out for itself. Sciensano does not consider it advisable to share that information. It seems that Sciensano is convinced that it can decide for itself to do so. It would also be supported by your public service. In doing so, it ignores the Commission's opinion on Access to Administrative Documents, which we have consulted and which indicates that it is important that there is transparency about that data. Sciensano's arguments for refusing the figures make little sense. The institution feels that it is too difficult to interpret the figures, that the context is still lacking. She is afraid of abuse and panic and even assumes that disclosure of the data would prevent hospitals from reporting correctly. I find those very strange arguments. I quote from the Commission's opinion on Access to and Re-use of Administrative Documents: "The fact that Sciensano itself is able to draw conclusions from the data in question does not prevent other persons from drawing these conclusions without necessarily misconception." I think that is a wonderful formulation, there is no pin to be included. Furthermore, the Committee states: "As far as the public interest in public access is concerned, which must be balanced with the safety of the public, the Commission can only conclude that there is indeed a significant public interest in public disclosure. In times when the population is seriously affected by the COVID-19 virus, it is essential that it receives sufficient information." Minister, we do not know everything yet, and we certainly need a lot of research to assess everything in its proper relationship and context, but it is unacceptable that Parliament, at this stage, after more than a year, has still not been informed about the differences between hospitals. It is unacceptable that a state institution such as Sciensano should be considered superior to parliamentary control, social support and the fundamental right of access to administrative documents enshrined in the Constitution. It is unacceptable that Sciensano despises citizens and society in this way. These figures are important because it is the task of the Special Committee COOVID-19 to examine the way in which this crisis has been handled, to look at what has gone wrong and where it needs to be improved. That's our responsibility, more even it's our goddamn duty. We have to write recommendations, but we cannot understand how things have gone. How can we assess whether the services are sufficiently equipped everywhere, whether intensive care in certain hospitals should be further supported, whether the organisation is well equipped or better suited? These figures are important for citizens' confidence in government and in tackling the crisis. Minister, by refusing to report figures, as Sciensano does, we are creating mistrust. Figures can be perfectly interpreted and interpreted. We must not wear the citizen out for stupidity. That's the recipe to make people drop out, the recipe also for conspiracy theories. These figures are important because they are part of a transparent, contemporary government. In Germany, it is the Court of Auditors that found fraud in hospitals. The German counterpart of Sciensano, the Robert Koch Institute, had already reported suspicions of fraud. That is why the contrast is great with this country, where even at Parliament's explicit request figures are refused, where public institutions decide which data are shared and which are not. These figures are important because the hospital fees are based on them. Mr. Minister, hospitals are reimbursed per day of a covid patient on intensive care, with ventilation or ECMO. We need to be able to check whether our taxpayers' money is being spent properly and correctly. These figures are important because government policy is based on them, because our society needs to be able to trust that reporting is correct and that every effort is made to optimise the response to this crisis. Those figures must be accurate and can be verified by Parliament. That is simply the basis of democracy. It is the least the government owes to the people. Citizens have been expected for months to come, and enormous efforts and adjustments are required. Sacrifices are being made both economically and socially, the effects of which will be reminiscent for a long time to come. But with a government that does not take the same population seriously, which thinks that the population or Parliament are not able to see figures in their context, it is a great miracle that there is still any sense of citizenship at all. Minister, the figures are important, and I think you agree with them. The declaration of government was certainly full of new political culture and openness. So my questions to you are very simple. Do you have the numbers of hospitalizations and deaths due to COVID-19 per hospital? Why shouldn't these figures be made public? Did you order that? Did you know about Sciensano's refusal? What will you do to make the figures public and when will we get them? Will you now recommend maximum transparency to the services under your jurisdiction, including in particular Sciensano and the FAGG? Will you vouch for that? Finally, will you ensure that public health is finally given priority to the old political culture?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u43	Minister, there are currently more than 25,000 covid deaths in our country and some of these deaths could have been avoided. It is not only the duty of Parliament but also the duty of the government to learn all the lessons from this crisis. So far, this has not been the case. To learn all the lessons of this crisis, especially all the scientific lessons, it is very important to have today what is called open data. In the covid committee, we talked about this problem which has arisen since the beginning with Sciensano. When Emmanuel André came to testify, he told us about this problem and explained: "It is true that the data collected by Sciensano required considerable pressure, including sometimes via media channels. Why was this transparent access necessary? First, it was a question of allowing people outside Sciensano with at least the same skills as epidemiologists - university professors can indeed enjoy a global reputation - to carry out analyses that could anticipate and project themselves in the future, this capacity which is so important in crisis management because the lack of information would not allow this work to be carried out." When the virus was new, there were a lot of strangers about it. This is still the case today. Having open data, data that everyone can access, all experts, allows scientists, among other things, to do substantive work, make recommendations, and allow us to base our recommendations on the scientific elements. So until today, Sciensano insists on not releasing all the data. That attitude is really not correct. We need to be able to draw all the necessary lessons, in the interests of public health, in order to better tackle a next crisis and also out of respect for the deceased. The withholding of data on hospital admissions and mortality goes against the law of public administration. Sciensano's arguments for non-compliance with the obligation to publicise governance are irrelevant. Sciensano claims that the disclosure of the data could have an impact on current hospital activities and thus endanger the safety of the population. The Supervisory Committee for Administrative Documents, the CTB, objects to the fact that the failure to release the data will create many more problems and entail risks to public health, while the release of the figures will just increase public support for policies. It concludes that the publication of the figures serves a major public interest. Furthermore, Sciensano argues that the incomplete and incomplete nature of the data could be a source of misconceptions. However, the CTB shows that the fact that Sciensano himself draws conclusions from the figures and communicates those conclusions is a sign that these figures can indeed be considered finished. Another thesis by Sciensano is that by releasing the data the hospitals would not communicate fairly and would like to pass wrong data. That's the world upside down, isn't it? It is important that we are transparent both in times of crisis and in normal times. This is a cornerstone of a policy aimed at improving public health and optimising Parliament's control function. Will you make sure that the data is actually released?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u44	Madam President, Minister, on 15 June last, Sciensano would finally come to the Special Committee on COVID-19 to discuss hospital surveillance data. In committee, the members asked whether there was a difference between the different hospitals in, among other things, the deaths, the occupation of intensive care beds and the length of the rest and why this was or was not the case. This was not asked to point the finger at the hospitals, but rather to clarify problems and improve care for the patient. Against the agreements made by both the members of the special committee and between the committee and Sciensano, that government institution decided not to disclose its requested surveillance data and therefore not to refer to it in the special committee COOVID-19. However, that was the committee's explicit question. The decision was taken by Mr Léonard, Director of Sciensano, in consultation with the Public Health Office. The committee, together with full parliamentary democracy, has been scorned. Almost all the parties, opposition and majority, including your party, Minister, expressed their displeasure at this state of affairs. A government institution which ignores Parliament's question is du jamais vu. Instead of the figures requested, members of the committee received a series of lame arguments as to why the figures were not given: the figures are not complete, it can be dangerous, it can be misinterpreted. That is all nonsense, given that we asked not only for this reason the figures, but also for the explanation of the state institution Sciensano. The figures are essential to further explore the impact of the crisis and to feed our recommendations. We do not understand why these figures simply cannot be given. It is therefore striking that Mr Léonard, in the same committee, finally admits that the law is the law and that, if necessary, Sciensano will be given the figures. Let it be clear, the Federal Commission for Access to Administrative Documents believes that those figures should be released at Parliament's request. I quote a passage from the opinion of the Publicity Service: "As far as the public interest in public disclosure is concerned, which must be enforced with the safety of the public, the Commission can only conclude that public disclosure does indeed serve a major public interest. In times when the population is seriously affected by the COVID19 virus, it is essential that it obtains sufficient information. In addition, good relevant information is essential to ensure that public policies and measures are supported by citizens, which is equally essential for complying with these policies and measures." Minister, let it be just that support that was lacking throughout the covid line due to a lack of communication, due to a lack of transparency. Minister, I have two questions for you. Firstly, were you aware that Sciensano would not communicate the information requested? Secondly, will you claim hospital surveillance data and make them available to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u45	Madam President, thank you to the members of the Chamber who asked these questions for further discussion. First of all, let me say something about which we are probably in full agreement, in particular that we should conduct policies, and certainly a health policy, on the basis of evidence based, as one says in English. I am very much in favour of that. I believe that we should do the same in this crisis. Well, that's about data, isn't it? Of course, I do not think that this is a point of discussion between us. If we communicate data relating to health, we must also ensure that people's privacy is not violated. So the discussion is not whether data from the health domain should be communicated, for example the data from hospitals, the question is rather how to do that. I understand that, at last Tuesday's meeting, Sciensano told the members of the special committee COVID-19 that raw mortality rates per hospital could give rise to misinterpretations without a thorough framework, analysis and background. I believe that the people of Sciensano have even talked about undesirable consequences, starting with Sciensano himself, as a scientific institute. They consider that, if they transmit data, the quality of their work may be misjudged, or that they may have difficulties in collecting this data, since this is a matter of non-compulsory registration. That's pretty essential. It's not mandatory registration because of the hospitals. The people of Sciensano reportedly said at the committee meeting that if data were to be misinterpreted at the level of hospitals, it would not only be wrong for the hospitals and the staff concerned, because it might be wrong to draw conclusions about the hospital and the staff concerned, but it would be risking giving the public, patients or potential patients wrong signals about what a good hospital or a bad hospital is. It's better not to do that. What are obvious elements that are important to assess whether a hospital has done good or bad when looking at mortality rates? I believe that they also mentioned the severity of the covid infections with which the patients entered, the comordibities of the patients concerned and the extent to which a hospital was or was not taxed. Then, of course, we will also get some information on the quality of care. I understand that Sciensano himself claimed to have insufficient scientific explanation for these issues and therefore to be very reluctant in releasing raw data, of which they themselves do not know the correct interpretation. I understand that concern, but I am going to say a little more, because we need to make progress here. I understand the concerns, but let me be clear: I was not aware of the incident that would develop here. I certainly didn't order you to do that either. To give you the complete anecdotal: the day before the presentation of Sciensano on the committee, the employee of Sciensano sent the Powerpoint presentation to a member of my policy cell, just like that. That man didn't see that, because it was the day before. There was no question. I have not been asked: should we do so or should we do so differently, let alone order me to do so or otherwise? In that sense, I was not aware. That has come to us the day before the presentation in the midst of many other hustle and bustle, but not with the question of looking at it. We should of course have looked at it and made an opinion on it. Mrs Gijbels, before I come to a number of hopefully constructive proposals, I would like to distinguish between good and less good arguments on your part in this debate. There are good arguments for unlocking the figures, but you have also mentioned the funding of hospitals. Hospitals aren't funded on the basis of mortality rates, thank God. This has nothing to do with hospital funding, let alone a suggestion of fraud. You've made a comparison with fraud investigation, but that's not what this is about. It's about dying people in hospitals. That has nothing to do with funding hospitals until further notice. Nor is it clear to me why hospitals would cheat on death rates or something. I hope we do not get amalgamated arguments here, but I may have misunderstood you. However, a good argument is that the special committee says that this kind of evidention is actually necessary in order to formulate recommendations. That does make sense to me. The question is, how are we going to get ahead? Sciensano has collected this data on a voluntary basis, but does not consider this to be ripe. It has not yet been decided how to interpret it, but they have the data. I propose to ask the FPS Public Health to provide the special committee with the raw but anonymized search capacity data. That means you get what you ask, but not with the name of the hospitals. So you get the recordings and the total number of COVID-19 deaths reported from the start of the registration from March 15, 2020 until June 15, 2021 and you can compare them, but I suggest that I give that raw data anonymously at the level of the hospital's name. That seems to me to be a first, correct approach. In the meantime, I have looked at these figures. You will also be able to look at them very quickly, and what we know comes out as a harsh, brutal reality: gross mode died one in five people who were recorded. It's about a harsh reality, but that aside. In addition, the Special Committee may, if it so wishes, invite the Chairman of the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee to examine the figures together with him and on the basis of the Committee's important expertise. If, however, the committee expects a scientific analysis that relates the figures to other figures, it must really give it time to do so. That would be helpful, but you have to give it time. So you can go over that with him and think about what comes out of the figures. For a scientifically correct and therefore epidemiological and policy-relevant analysis of mortality rates, the committee will still have to wait for apparently ongoing analyses at Sciensano. I believe that we should be able to agree on this together. I have also understood that it is not new that a contact between the chairman of the special committee and Sciensano has shown that Sciensano is prepared to cooperate with Members on the basis of research questions in order to come up with recommendations. That seems to me to be a very interesting suggestion. In this way, the committee can engage directly in dialogue with Sciensano and indicate what it finds interesting in terms of scientific research. Then, of course, it is important to respond as soon as possible. If I were to be a member of the committee, I would like to receive the following information. I'm making a suggestion on the matter. We could have the surveillance data that Sciensano collected on a voluntary basis, with a problem of completeness, grouped by them. As a result, only 60% of the site was covered. For example, Sciensano can group these dates by province and also consider Brussels as a province. Then the committee can ask for the median age, age cohorts, the sex of the people, the length of the hospital stay to the extent that it is correct, which may be known for someone who entered and was fired. The length of stay on intensive care should also be possible, as should the most common symptoms, the most common clinical picture, most common comorbidity, number of deaths and number and percentage of patients according to the severity indicator among all hospital dismissed patients. That's a suggestion from me. This could be discussed further if necessary. If such data were available in a provincial manner, certain relevant links would already be visible. In addition, if raw anonymised data are available per hospital for admissions and mortality, a lot is already available. If you could enter into dialogue with Sciensano on that basis, you can take steps forward. I understand Sciensano's concern, although I wasn't involved. If I were on the scientific side of the story, quod non, I would also hesitate to give raw data that I haven't analyzed yet, while I want to analyze them. I also understand the committee which, as a special committee, wishes to take note of the data in both the literal and the fundamental meaning of the word and to engage in dialogue with Sciensano on this matter. The committee has no time to waste either. Those are some of the suggestions I'm making. I hope that they can also be satisfactory steps forward for you. I hope I made it clear how this process went.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u46	Mr Minister, the arguments you raised at the beginning are based purely on assumptions, such as incorrect interpretation of data or not enough context.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u47	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u48	Okay, but those are their arguments. You also say we can get the raw anonymized search capacity data. All this goes beyond the advice of the CTB, which is very clear. The data we have requested is not only about mortality, but also about the number of recordings and also about the length of time. You draw it a little bit on bottles when you say that the hospitals are not paid based on the number of covid deaths. I know they are, but they are paid on the basis of the length of time, the number of days someone stays with covid in their hospital. So there's got to be that data. The few steps that are being done are good, but I am not satisfied with that. I'm not reassured. I am still afraid that we will have to wait a very long time for a truly active transparent government. I hope this isn't something my grandchildren might hope for. I hope there will be more transparency. I also hope that we do not have to start procedures every time, as is the case now, in order to obtain in a special committee data that should be perfectly transparent and public for everyone. In this case, it's even about Sciensano. I'm a little disappointed. Not about the work of Sciensano, I think Sciensano is doing a very good job, but about the attitude, the mentality. I also hear from citizens that, if they want more explanation from Sciensano, it is very difficult to get more explanation and background information. Sciensano is our scientific institution that takes care of the evidence in policy and provides those figures to determine the course. It is an institution in which the people really place their trust and hope at the moment. If such an institution thinks it can decide for itself what is being released and what is not, apart from the Constitution, apart from parliamentary democracy, there is, in my view, a real danger that citizens will lose their trust in the government, but also, and I very much regret that, in science. We must do everything we can to maintain that faith in democracy and science. Science communication is not easy and these figures need context. The government has not excelled in openness and communication. Well, it's high time to change that rudder. In fact, I think it is too late, and I think it is negligent that not all the figures were used during the crisis. If there are major differences between the hospitals and the signals we are getting, then we should have found out why these figures were so different and then we should have looked at what could be done about them. It certainly does not help to cover up such matters or to keep ignoring parliamentary questions. Minister, I'm counting on you. I really hope that you will deliver on the promises in the government agreement for a transparent government. I hope that this may be the beginning of a turnaround. Now we need these figures in the special committee COOVID-19, but this is not really the case. In fact, every citizen should have access to such documents, unless there are serious arguments for not doing so, and there are no such documents. A contemporary country needs a slender and neutral government which deals with its core tasks, which properly informs the population, which considers its citizens to be an equal partner, which does not infantile or degrade its population and does not do anything about rear chamber politics. Double agendas are not appropriate, especially in a serious crisis like this, with consequences that we will feel for a very long time to come. Citizens have worked tirelessly for their fellow human beings. They listened well when new measures were announced. The economy was almost shut down. Schools were closed. Social contacts were kept to a minimum. People deserve a lot more respect. They deserve a neutral and transparent government. They have the right to inspect the details of this pandemic. Minister, together with some of my colleagues in my group, I have written a bill to improve the transparency of the federal government. That's what it turns out to be necessary. A crisis exposes structural weaknesses sharply and irreversibly. We will take the gauntlet to defend our citizens. They deserve so much better. Madam President, our group will also table a motion for a recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u49	Mr. Secretary, apparently you have already seen these figures. You say they're bad, because one person in five would have died. They are indeed very bad figures, and I believe that our entire population knows that. We should have done everything from the outset so that those mortality rates would have been generally less high. In that sense, I am sorry that you have come here for more than a year to say that. Why do we need open data? Firstly, scientists need to be able to study these figures worldwide, which is why they need to be released. You say Sciensano hasn't had time to interpret those figures properly. Have they not asked other scientists, for example from universities, to help analyse them? Is there any work to be done on that? Did you order that? After a year, how can one simply say that the figures are bad but that there is still no clear understanding of them? That does show how important it is for those figures to be made public. Moreover, Sciensano is not above the law. After all, we have a law on public administration and there is an opinion that dates back to October last year that is simply not being respected. In the end, this leads to interplays here and you come forward with a compromise on the approach to the figures. Those numbers just need to be released. It is, of course, Sciensano's task as a scientific institute to give an interpretation of this and possibly to cooperate with the universities. It is up to you to order Sciensano to perform that task. You must, of course, also give them the means to carry out this task properly. We will follow this up and continue to argue for transparency in the figures. Open data is needed, that is a fight of many democrats but also of scientists who want to learn real lessons from this crisis. This will enable a scientific study to be made of how to better deal with such a crisis in the future. The population is entitled to this, especially after the biggest crisis after the Second World War. We must learn serious lessons from this rather than propose half-compromise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u50	Minister, you gave a long and unspeakable answer, so little telling that your fellow Minister did not even think it necessary to listen. Measuring is knowing. That's not the problem here. It was measured. The hospitals reported their figures to the government. Sciensano acts here as a processor of that data on behalf of the government. Of course, that has to be anonymized data. This also took into account the commission's instructions. The task of the special committee is, among other things, to find out, on the basis of testimonies, reports and certainly also figures, what went wrong in order to do better in the future. The bottom stone must come up, and colleagues of the majority also proclaimed it. However, we must point out that the special committee has been working on the brake from the outset. How can a special committee be brought to the fore if the necessary figures are missing? How can the various testimonies be valued in terms of value and truth if the committee does not have the authority of an investigating judge? From the outset, the Flemish interest in a parliamentary committee of inquiry argued, but Parliament did not go into that, because the bottom stone might really come up. There could be real responsibility for the grim policy and the more than 25,000 deaths. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, no, the special committee has never been able and will never be able to work. The covid committee is a sham. The strapats of Sciensano are the best example of this. Those figures have been asked for almost a year. Should Parliament address a plea to a government agency such as Sciensano? Should Parliament ask for the figures on its bare knees? It appears once again that our decision to turn it over and get out of that senseless committee is more than justified. Unless there is still a committee of inquiry - better late than never - we are not wasting our precious time on circles and meaningless answers. We'd rather put our energy into a report that is to the point. We will not be bound by the censorship of the majority. We want all the jars, smelly or not, to be opened. We want 200 % transparency and not taboos. Too many people have died for that. We would therefore like to table a motion for a recommendation in which we recommend that the figures be requested and made available to Parliament. I will conclude with a message to Parliament: stop the sham and finally start with a parliamentary committee of inquiry. It's not too late.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u51	Madam President, I have also just given you a simple motion along with my fellow group leaders from the majority. I ask the urgency of that motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u52	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Frieda Gijbels and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interviews of the ladies Frieda Gijbels, Sofie Merckx and Dominiek Sneppe and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - having regard to Sciensano's month-long persistent refusal to release the hospital surveillance data in question, even after the Commission's opinion on access to administrative documents requested for this purpose; - having regard to Sciensano's refusal, in spite of the agreements made with the special committee COVID-19, to communicate and explain the hospital surveillance data requested in the special committee COVID-19 dd. 15/06/2021; - having regard to the ensuing discussion in the Special Committee for the Protection of the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, 15/06/2021 and the protests of almost all political groups, both of the majority and of the opposition; - having regard to the task of the Special Committee on COVID-19 to carry out as thorough an analysis as possible on: addressing the covid crisis and the essential need and preliminary condition for maximum transparency due to all the public institutions involved, which is a sine qua non in this context; - having regard to the importance of the optimum guarantee of parliamentary control and respect for the democratically elected representatives and the people they represent; - having regard to the mistrust which may result from a lack of transparency among the population and the undermining of the social support for the measures taken to address the covid crisis resulting therefrom; asks the government - to request Sciensano to present the information requested without delay to the Special Committee on COVID-19, in accordance with the agreements made; - clarify the reasons and those responsible for the previous refusal by Sciensano to communicate the information requested and the role of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health; - ensure maximum (and active) transparency with regard to its public services, its functioning and the information they hold, and in particular with regard to the information relating to our health system and the response to the covid crisis; - ensure that there is always sufficient respect within the government and public administrations for the acceptance of its measures by the public and the parliamentary control function of Members of Parliament; - ensure that the new political culture is one of mutual respect and constructive cooperation between majority and opposition, in a climate of maximum transparency." A first motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Frieda Gijbels and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mrs Frieda Gijbels, Sofie Merckx and Dominiek Sneppe and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, - having regard to Sciensano's obstinate refusal to provide hospital surveillance data, also following the Commission's opinion on Access to and Reuse of Administrative Documents, which had urged that such data be provided; - having regard to Sciensano's refusal, despite what had been agreed with the Special Commission Covid-19, to communicate and comment on hospital surveillance data before the Special Commission Covid-19 of 15 June 2021; - having regard to the subsequent discussion in the Special Committee on Covid-19 of 15 June 2021 and to the protests of almost all political groups, both the majority and the opposition; - having regard to the task of the Special Commission Covid-19 to carry out as thorough an analysis as possible of the approach to the crisis of the Covid-19 and the essential need and precondition for ensuring the maximum transparency of all the public authorities concerned, which constitutes a sine qua non in this context; - given the importance of ensuring optimal parliamentary oversight and respect for democratically elected Members of Parliament and the people they represent; - in view of the population's distrust, which may be caused by a lack of transparency and the risk that societal acceptance of the measures taken in the context of the crisis of the Covid-19 will disappear; asks the government - to urge Sciensano to come and comment without delay on the data before the Special Commission Covid-19, as agreed; - to make clear the reasons and responsibilities for any refusal by Sciensano to provide the requested data and the role of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health; - to always ensure maximum (and active) transparency regarding public services, their functioning and the information they have in their possession, and in particular concerning information on the health system and the approach to the crisis of the covid-19; - to ensure that, within government and public services, there is always sufficient respect for public acceptance of the measures implemented and for the oversight function of parliamentarians; - to ensure that the new political culture is a culture of mutual respect and constructive cooperation between the majority and the opposition, in a climate of maximum transparency." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Dominiek Sneppe and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interviews of the ladies Frieda Gijbels, Sofie Merckx and Dominiek Sneppe and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - having regard to the Commission's opinion on access to administrative documents, - having regard to the severity of the COVID-19 pandemic and the more than 25,000 victims; - having regard to the absence of a parliamentary committee of inquiry; asks the government request the hospital surveillance data and make them available to the Special Committee COVID-19.' A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Dominiek Sneppe and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Ms Frieda Gijbels, Sofie Merckx and Dominiek Sneppe and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, - having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents; - given the seriousness of the covid-19 pandemic and the more than 25,000 victims; - the absence of a parliamentary committee of inquiry; asks the government to require hospital surveillance data and make them available to the Covid-19 Special Commission." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Ms Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Wouter De Vriendt et Servais Verherstraeten. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u53	The government has requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Bill confirming three royal decrees on social energy tariffs, No. 2045/1. The Government has requested the urgency declaration pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, of the draft law for the ratification of three royal decrees relating to social energy tariffs, No. 2045/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u54	Madam President, the preliminary draft law on the ratification of three royal decisions on social energy tariffs also contains the Royal Decree of 16 June 2020 amending the Royal Decree of 29 March 2012 laying down the rules for determining the costs of applying the social tariffs by natural gas undertakings and the intervention rules for charging them. Same for the electricity sector. This Royal Decree must be ratified on the basis of the Electricity Act and the Gas Act within 12 months of the date of entry into force. Legal certainty is at risk because both natural gas undertakings and electricity undertakings could be in an unclear situation if the provisions of that Royal Decree of 16 June 2020 were not deemed to have entered into force. That is why we are calling for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u55	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u56	The government also requested urgency in accordance with Article 51 of the Regulation when the draft law amending the Code of Companies and Associations and the law of 16 March 1803 containing the organization of the notariat and laying down various provisions following the transposition of Directive (EU) 2019/1151 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 amending Directive (EU) 2017/1132 with regard to the use of digital tools and processes in company law, No 2047/1 was tabled. The Government has also requested the urgency statement pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the Code of Companies and Associations and the law of 16 March 1803 to the notarial office and laying down various provisions following the transposition of Directive (EU) 2019/1151 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 amending Directive (EU) 2017/1132 as regards the use of digital instruments and processes under company law, No. 2047/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u57	Madam Chair, this bill, introduced pursuant to rule 51 of the Rules of the House, contains several provisions that should come into force as soon as possible. The draft law contains, inter alia, provisions aimed at establishing the legal framework for the establishment of the authentic act of incorporation of legal persons in dematerialised form and at a distance. Given the transposition deadline of 1 August 2021, it is important that our legislation be adapted in time to ensure the constitution of legal persons entirely online. There is therefore a financial urgency to avoid an infringement procedure initiated by the European Commission and a legal urgency to strengthen the attractiveness of Belgian legal persons' law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u58	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u59	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u60	The urgency is requested for the legislative proposal No. 2071/1 by Mrs Gitta Vanpeborgh amending the law of 22 April 2019 on quality practice in health care. Mrs Depraetere has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u61	Madam President, it is indeed the law of 22 April 2019 on quality practice in healthcare, also known as the Quality or Pedestal Act. It provides for a range of measures to ensure the quality and safety of care or care for the patient. A period of two years was foreseen for entry into force, so that everything could be prepared on the ground and in the administrations. I do not have to tell you that the covid crisis over the last year and a half has absorbed all the energy, both in the care staff on the ground and in the administrations, which has not been thoroughly prepared. The deadline's coming up early. It is therefore clear from the sector that the postponement of entry into force is desirable in the interests of legal certainty and the harmonious functioning of the sector as a whole. With this bill, we want to move the deadline by one year until 1 July 2022. July 1st is coming soon, hence our question of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u62	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u63	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters of 9 June 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration on 9 June 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 134/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Marco Van Hees; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Tim Vandenput. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 134/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Marco Van Hees; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Tim Vandenput. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion that I propose to approve, after having rejected the pure and simple motion of course, concerns one of the darkest pages in our history: the assassination of the independent Prime Minister of the Congo, Patrice Lumumba. An assassination carried out in 1961 under the supervision of the Belgian government. An abhorrent assassination, followed by an abject act: the dissolution in acid of the body of the anti-colonialist leader. For several decades, the only remaining body – a tooth – was detained in Belgium, at a Belgian policeman's house, who exhibited it as a hunting trophy. Material proof of the responsibility of the authorities of our country. Not a vague moral responsibility, as Belgium hypocritically conceded after the Lumumba commission. No: a flagrant responsibility motivated by the desire to eliminate a leader who refused to replace colonial domination with neo-colonial domination. This is what happened then, with decades of dictatorship of a Mobutu supported by Belgium and the CIA. The delivery of the remains to the Lumumba family, which was to take place this month, was finally postponed to January 2022. However, the question remains: what will the Prime Minister's message – if there is a message – be? In response to my inquiry in committee, Alexander De Croo replied that Lumumba was a controversial character. Controversy! No, Mr De Croo: not controversial, murdered! Murdered on instructions from the government, of which you are the continuant. Controversy? Most certainly, for the colonizers who wanted to maintain their domination and did not hesitate to eliminate it. Controversy? When a prime minister dares this word, even though a committee of this Parliament, for the moment, has the task of decolonizing minds, it is said that if Patrice Lumumba is dead, the neo-colonialism of the Belgian government is still alive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u65	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u66	Yes 81 Yes No. 48 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 132 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u67	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 145/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Frieda Gijbels; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Dominiek Sneppe; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Wouter De Vriendt et Servais Verherstraeten. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 145/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Frieda Gijbels; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Dominiek Sneppe; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u68	Yes [[80]] Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u69	Vote on Amendment No 12 by Sofie Merckx on Article 8. (1974/18) Vote on Amendment No 12 of Sofie Merckx to Article 8. (1974/18) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u70	Yes [[12]] Yes No. [[120]] No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Catherine Fonck cs on article 14. (1974/18) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Catherine Fonck cs to Article 14. (1974/18) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u71	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 101 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Catherine Fonck cs on article 24. (1974/18) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Catherine Fonck cs to Article 24. (1974/18) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u72	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 100 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 24 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 24 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Catherine Fonck cs to insert an article 24/1(n). (1974/18) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Catherine Fonck cs to insert an Article 24/1(n). (1974/18) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u73	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 99 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Catherine Fonck cs to insert an article 24/2(n). (1974/18) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Catherine Fonck cs to insert an Article 24/2(n). (1974/18) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u74	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Catherine Fonck cs to insert an article 24/3(n). (1974/18) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Catherine Fonck cs to insert an Article 24/3(n). (1974/18) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u75	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u76	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u77	Yes [[80]] Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1974/19) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1974/19) Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u78	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? (No) Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u79	Yes 117 Yes No. [[17]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2026/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2026/4) Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u80	Vote on Amendment No 35 by Ellen Samyn on Article 4. (643/11) Vote on Amendment No 35 by Ellen Samyn to Article 4. (643/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u81	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 101 No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 36 by Ellen Samyn on Article 4. (643/11) Vote on Amendment No 36 by Ellen Samyn to Article 4. (643/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u82	Yes [[18]] Yes No. [[120]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 37 by Ellen Samyn on Article 4. (643/11) Vote on Amendment No 37 by Ellen Samyn to Article 4. (643/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u83	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 118 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No Thirty-eight from Ellen Samyn to Article 6. (643/11) Vote on Amendment No 38 by Ellen Samyn to Article 6. (643/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u84	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 100 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No Thirty-nine by Ellen Samyn on Article 7. (643/11) Vote on Amendment No 39 by Ellen Samyn to Article 7. (643/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u85	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 99 No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No Ellen Samyn's 40 on Article 9. (643/11) Vote on Amendment No 40 by Ellen Samyn to Article 9. (643/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u86	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 99 No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 41 by Ellen Samyn on Article 11. (643/11) Vote on Amendment No 41 by Ellen Samyn to Article 11. (643/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u87	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 99 No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 42 by Ellen Samyn on Article 13. (643/11) Vote on Amendment No 42 by Ellen Samyn to Article 13. (643/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u88	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 99 No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u89	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u90	Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (643/12) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (643/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u91	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Michael Freilich on Article 2. (2021/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Michael Freilich to Article 2. (2021/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u92	Yes [[22]] Yes No. 95 No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u93	The entire bill amending section 30 of the Act of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications (2021/4) Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u94	Yes 98 Yes No. 36 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2021/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2021/6) Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip111x.u95	We must approve the agenda for next week's sittings. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's meetings. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Wednesday, June 23, 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 23 June 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
