ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament 55014569C by Mr Moyaers has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u2	On 17 February, De Standaard reports that the low interest rate puts a bomb under the supplementary pensions. A few days later, Assuralia announced that the guaranteed minimum return of 1.75 percent on supplementary pensions should be further reduced due to persistent low interest rates. They believe that this debate can no longer be postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u3	Mrs Vanrobaeys, it is indeed the government's ambition to democratize supplementary pensions. We want them to be accessible to everyone and not just to the happy few. We will only be able to live up to this ambition if employees also have confidence in the second pillar of pensions in a context of low interest rates. For this purpose, the legal guarantee of return is of fundamental importance. We cannot ask people to invest part of their salary for 20, 30 or 40 years unless they are guaranteed that that investment will at least retain its purchasing power. I would stress once again that the legal guarantee of return is not a guarantee in the short term, which must be given every year. No, it is a long-term guarantee, in which good and bad years can be compensated. If we cannot promise people that their average long-term return does not reach at least the level of inflation, then we should stop. In times of low interest rates, it is all the more important to pay close attention to the costs. The costs have a major impact on supplementary pensions. As the coalition agreement stipulates, we will accurately assess and analyse the costs charged by financial institutions under the second and third pillars. In consultation with my colleagues, the finance and economic ministers, we will call on the FSMA to do so. That assignment is currently being prepared.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u4	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I did not expect anything else from you, but I am very pleased, because it is true that a supplementary pension should not become an investment product. The insurance companies announced that they would reduce the return once again, after it had already been reduced. People who have a supplementary pension are already building up less for the future than what they built up before. If that happens again, we'd better stop it, as you say. There is little point in using generalization. If it is to be part of the supplementary pension policy and if it is generalised, then there must be certainty, and a minimum return of a certain amount, so that people know what comes out in the longer term. That doesn't have to change every year, because then it doesn't make much sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u5	Madam President, as has been said this morning, the PTB is sorry that a lot of questions that we would have liked to delete are on the agenda, but our colleagues have not been able to reach the platform. Mr Colebunders will therefore not ask his question. I'll question the minister. Minister, this issue is targeted at young people, particularly students. We have already had the opportunity to discuss it, among other things, in the context of a bill tabled by the PS Group which we supported, in any case on principle, in order to examine how we could solve the concrete problem of all these students who work to finance their studies and who, with the covid period, find themselves in complicated situations. There are many young people joining the already long lines of food support. Minister, what help do you intend to put in place? On February 3, 2021, the president of your party issued a statement in the press, saying that he was going to present to the Concertation Committee a proposal concerning the incomes of these students? Can you tell us where that is?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u6	Madam President, Mrs Moscufo, the crisis has had a very heavy impact on our young people, whether they are students or not. I don't make a difference. Indeed, there is a lot of talk about young students, but it is not just young students who suffer. It is the young people in general who have difficulties. They suffer socially, psychologically and, of course, financially, as you have pointed out, to such an extent that some people plunge into situations of poverty and, in particular, resort to food aid. You've heard them like me almost every weekend. Young people have expressed their ill-being and distress. They did it with great maturity. I would like to say that today we must thank the young people because, for the past year, they have put their youth, their carelessness in brackets, to save the most vulnerable. We often forget to tell them. We only point out young people who have done stupid things or who do not respect the rules. But for the vast majority of them, they were brave and respected the rules and, today, they suffer on the three levels that I mentioned (social, psychological and financial). The government will not forget these young people, of course. I do not want these young people to become a generation sacrificed psychologically or weakened in the medium or long term. Together with my colleague Pierre-Yves Dermagne, we have asked for additional resources only for young people between the ages of 18 and 20 and we have obtained them just before the Carnival leave: 30 million euros have been released by the government to support these young people, whether they are students or not. They will be distributed as follows: 24 million will be distributed among the CPAS for their right to direct aid, whether ad hoc or more structural, to young people who have been disadvantaged by this crisis. Direct aid may be financial or more social in nature, but it will always meet an individual need of the young person with a completely reduced social survey. These 24 million are for young people under the age of 25 who have suffered a loss of income – for example, if they have not had their student job – or who are facing an increase in their spending. This subside will be available from 1 April – we are working on the circulars – until 31 December. I encourage young people with financial problems to contact CPAS. The aim of this subsidy is to tell these young people that we do not want to add stress to stress. They are already very stressed, suffering from isolation, we do not want economic stress to make it more difficult for the more disadvantaged to have their June exams. Everyone must have a chance and financial problems must no longer be a burden. In parallel with these 24 million, EUR 6 million will be spent on the increase of the intervention on individual social integration projects (PIIS), from 10 to 20% from 1 April to the end of June. This €6 million increase will allow CPAS to step up the necessary support for these young people towards training paths, sustainable employment and further education. I will, of course, continue to monitor the situation very closely and I will not fail to propose further measures to the government if this proves necessary during this crisis. As for what happened in Kern, not being there, I can't answer you. I'm not Deputy Prime Minister. The important thing is that these means have been released for our youth in addition to the psychological support released by Mr. Frank Vandenbroucke in recent weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u7	Minister, you say that if it were necessary, you would propose further measures to the government. But the return of the ground already shows us that it is necessary. We do not want to sweep away the concrete proposals that you have just explained to us. With regard to CPAS and the problems it creates at their level, this will be the subject of a later question. The point about the question you were asked was to say that when a student needs to work to finance his or her studies and that, overnight, he or she loses that income, he or she actually loses the possibility of being educated. Our country is one of the most unequal countries in terms of education. Unfortunately, this crisis only worsens things. It will not be a question of continuing with measuring instruments. The measures for us are not satisfactory. We agree with you that the problem of youth today is not only that of young students, but of youth as a whole, which also requires some oxygen. This subject is a little out of place in relation to the discussion, but as you open this debate, the young people are also waiting for a rebalancing through the communicating vases and for a bit of oxygen to be given to them. In relation to this pandemic, the suffering is great for them, especially since some political trends are not hindered in making them feel guilty. As you said, most of them have respected the rules as best they can. We will come back to the follow-up of the measures we feel we need to be far more ambitious than what you proposed, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u8	You can say that in relation to the rate of use of the 30 million. It is unambitious on your part to say that this is not enough when the implementation of the measures has not yet begun. It's a little easy. In the meantime, the 30 million are here!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u9	Madam President, Madam Minister, we have already had the opportunity to address this subject before, in a topical debate, I think. My question concerns the feedback – you also have it yourself – on the difficulties facing CPAS. They have an overload of work, mainly due to the fact that more and more demands are coming to them. Minister, my questions are as follows. How do you respond to those who say that the $20 million released to cover the increase in staff costs for 2021 will not be enough? Are you going to grant any other means? The president of CPAS Walloons reported that between 2008 and 2019, a 56% increase in the number of cases was registered in Wallonia, with only 2% of the increase in staff. This problem dates back to the pandemic. What about the other regions? According to him, in 2020, cases increased by 10 % in Belgium and an increase of 15 to 30 % is expected in 2022. So how are you going to create a more serene and lasting situation in the country's CPAS, also in the longer term? The president of CPAS Walloons argued for a rather structural increase in the federal rebate rate to 90%. It calls for more recruitment because this creates a double problem: a problem of overloading staff and a problem of efficiency. Despite all the good will that works in the CPAS, there is an impossibility to address the situation of beneficiaries properly in order to arrive at a linked file that leads to the obtaining of their rights. Nor is it possible to have a more humane approach, which is also the role of the CPAS, beyond the financial aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u10	Madam President, Mrs Moscufo, let me point out that it is far more than 20 million euros that have been released to support the financing of CPAS! I don't know where you found that $20 million! On my initiative, the government has increased the resources allocated to each CPAS for operating costs related to the granting of RIS by 8%. I would also remind you that all new RIS have been reimbursed at 90% since the crisis and that this measure is extended until the end of June. Federal State participation has doubled (from 10 per cent to 20 per cent) in youth policies and PIIS. We know that tension is high in the CPAS, which are at the forefront of this crisis. We are all here, and I in particular, to support them. Regarding the increase in the number of RIS, I also read the article of the president of the Federation of CPAS of Wallonia. I can only give the figures provided by the Planning Office. They have already acted for 2020 with an increase of 6.9% and an increase of 8.1% is expected in 2021. I hope that the catastrophic figures mentioned by the President of the CPAS Walloons, Mr Alain Vaessen, will not be realized and that the social policies put in place will not see 30% increase in the demand for RIS in the Walloon municipalities. In any case, that is not what I want and we are trying to carry out active policies so that this does not happen. CPAS have been much more supported than you say. We are in constant contact with the country's three CPAS federations in order to best meet the needs, in addition to the efforts that are being made at the level of the Regions. Indeed, much of the policy of the CPAS is the responsibility of the Regions as a result of the sixth reform of the State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u11	Madam Minister, I would like to begin with a parenthesis: you and other members of your party tell us every time we say the phrase "there is only one", when that is not the case! I feel like you're bloating on what we're saying. It's just a little parenthesis, all the more so since I made it clear that I wasn't sweeping your proposals with one back of my hand. I'm concerned about that, but I'm sure you have your reasons and I respect them. I am not the one who claims that there is a problem and that the situation as it is, despite what is already in place and will be put in place, will not suffice. He's the president of CPAS Walloons. I respect the people who are in the field, because I only have an outside look at it. Above all, I live in a municipality in the region of Liege, in Herstal, and I can tell you that the returns of the land are not good on the two aspects that I put forward. We remain convinced that, in any case, refinancing must absolutely come from the federal government. As a party, our view is that there has been too much regionalization. That's not right. CPAS really need to be refinanced at the federal level, otherwise it's a vicious circle. The actors on the ground at the level of the communes are allowed to manage as they can, with communal councils which must then transfer money in a solidarity way via the CPAS. So we're really not going to get away with this! We will not fail to measure the impact of the measures you have outlined, and we will soon come back to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u12	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Marie-Colline Leroy's 55014993C and 55015170C have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u13	Madam Minister, in order to spare my vote, I would like to refer to the interplay that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u14	Madam President, I agree and refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u15	The death of a spouse has significant financial consequences for families. In many cases, the couple has put in place long-term financial projects, and suddenly the entire financial burden of the household rests solely on the surviving spouse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u16	Madam Minister, losing a partner at a young age is not only emotional but also financially extremely difficult. To compensate for this financial loss, young widows and widowers up to 48 years of age receive today a temporary transitional allowance of either 24 months if there are children or 12 months if there are no children. Practice shows that this transitional period is too short, which is also confirmed by various case law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u17	Colleagues, I am not indifferent to the difficult emotional and financial situation of widows and widowers today. I have had contacts on this subject with organizations that defend their rights, such as ODOS, a Dutch-speaking organization, and the League of Families, an organization on the francophone side. They and they are very worried about the future of their children. The short period during which they may fall back on a transitional allowance is a source of stress. The time is approaching when they will have to ensure everything again. More financial support, and therefore more time to be present for children, is needed. This theme, which mainly affects women – as we all know – obviously holds my full attention. The automation of social rights is certainly important to us. If you are entitled to a certain benefit, you must at least know that you are entitled to it and, as far as possible, the benefit must be granted automatically. That's another point of interest to me. The transition allowance came into effect only in 2015 and I have not yet received an assessment of my administration. On the other hand, my office is working on appropriate reform proposals that will address both financial and availability concerns for children. This is obviously a totally legitimate concern of these – most of them – women. As far as survivors' pensions are concerned, the problem is wider than the permitted working limits. There is, among other things, a problem of dependency traps. The system also ensures the unequal treatment of ex-one earners and two earners. We strive for the right balance between the personal risk, the family risk and the collective risk. It is also time to take steps to reform the family dimensions of legal pensions. It is time to adapt our pension system to the evolution of our society. As far as the tax treatment of the transitional allowance is concerned, I refer you to the competent Minister of Finance, Mr. Van Peteghem. But of course, I've already discussed it with him. He is very aware of the issues at stake. We will work together, at the government level, to achieve consistent decisions, that is to say, to ensure that an allowance for the widow is not subject to an insufficient discount and that there are bad surprises at the end of the year. The Minister of Finance is very aware of the problem. The administrative burden for next of kin is indeed enormous. At least at the Federal Pension Service, we will do everything we can to communicate clearly. For this we call on experience experts, who are better than anyone to indicate exactly what the needs are in this particular situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is good to hear that you are consulting and that this important dossier is being kept under constant review. After all, the death of a child, partner or parent has an emotional impact on the next of kin. We followed the hearings well last week. It is almost immediately confronted with the administrative and financial mess with which this loss is associated. Survivors have to pay for all possible costs: paying the rent, paying a house if one does not have debt balance insurance, paying daily business, household costs, utilities. On top of that, it brings with it extra worries. We are pressing for specific measures to be taken. I hear you're in agreement with the Minister of Finance. We're delighted, but I'm asking you not to let the file snow under. We know that it is a complex dossier, which has to do with pensions, but also with other benefits. I also ask you to work on one central hotline. That would make it much easier for that target group. They've been asking for that for a long time. Thank you for the efforts you have made in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u19	Madam Minister, I do not think we can imagine how difficult the loss of a partner is, especially if one loses it at a young age and has children. In that case, it is not only immense grief, but also the financial situation that is made more difficult by payments that are not automatic, taxes that have to be repaid afterwards, and so on. The current legislation relating to the survivor's pension and the transitional allowance was indeed introduced at the end of 2014 and started from 2015. In the meantime, we've been six years. The coalition agreement also states that we must evaluate this legislation. CD&V had insisted on doing so, especially for people with a family burden. I'm glad you're doing that. The transitional allowance, which was intended to give young people the chance to stay in work, is good in itself, but that two-year period is far too short. We have tabled a proposal to extend that period to three years and one and a half years for people without children's problems. In addition, you can do something yourself. What one can earn if one gets a survivor's pension is very limited, which sometimes means that people stop working or work less, otherwise they lose too much of their survivor's pension. That's not the point. It was never intended that a woman who lost her husband at 55 would only work for ten hours because she would lose too much if she continued to work full-time. Those amounts really need to be increased. I hope you want to do that exercise, too. I have noticed something inexplicable in the figures, namely the limits of what is to be earned. I don't see the logic behind that. Do you know that one can earn less if one has dependent children and is less than 65 years old than when one is 65 years old and has dependent children? That is a very bizarre argument: either one has children dependent or not, and there can be a difference on that basis, but age itself does not matter. I find it bizarre that someone who is 65 years old and still has a child dependent on, for example, 19 years old may earn a little more than that. I find that completely illogical, and you can do something about that yourself via a KB, which I have checked: you do not need to change the law for that. I hope you will. You already have our support for this, but I would like to start by discussing in Parliament where we are going to draw up these limits, so that everyone can have the opportunity to choose for themselves. Of course, we prefer that people continue to work. If they want to work a little less temporarily, for example because of their grief, they should be able to do so, but we are not supposed to oblige people to stay home because otherwise they will lose too much of their benefit. That's completely wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answers. Two years of transitional allowances is not enough to protect his family. They are often families who need their mother and it is important not to lose sight of the fact that with a widow's status it is not easy to return to work because companies know that the person is alone with his or her children and that he or she must be able to be absent. This must be taken into account. The concern about the duration of the allowance adds to the particularly complicated emotional state of the parent a significant stress. All this gives families the feeling of being doubly penalized. I am pleased to hear you say that you are working with your firm on reform to meet these needs. With sp.a, our group will table a motion for a resolution to help these families.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u21	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. We all agree that a loss is always terrible. When one loses the partner at a young age and is left alone with the children, it is not only emotionally heavy but also financially heavy. You say that the assessment of the transitional allowance is in the government agreement and that you are already looking at it, especially in the cases where there are children. There have already been court rulings on specific cases of single women with children working part-time in residential care centres and thus not in full-time employment. The labour court of Liège has said several times that the limitation of the transitional allowance to two years is contrary to the Constitution. The Constitutional Court also highlighted the high risk of poverty following the 2015 reform. That's an element we should definitely take with us. On the one hand, children can be dependent, but on the other hand, there is a high risk of poverty if the benefit is suddenly stopped after two years. I would like to raise a second point on taxation. I hear you're in contact with Mr Van Peteghem. You say that we can include more corporate tax, so that people will not be surprised afterwards. As a result of the conversations I had, including the non-profit association ODOS, I had a fictional case calculated. I have taken an annual professional income of 35,000 euros and a transitional allowance of 14,000 euros. If this is combined with a professional income, the total amount of taxes will be EUR 15,000. I didn't levy a corporate tax. If you only have the transitional allowance, without cumulation, you will get 9 000 euros of taxes. Half of the transitional allowance is thus taxed when you go to work. That transitional allowance was intended as an activating measure. There is therefore a need for further consideration of these taxes. I am not opposed to maintaining the transitional allowance as an activating measure. In the past, there were people who were almost forced to work part-time or to stop completely in order to maintain their survivor's pension. I don't want to go back to that situation either. There is therefore a need for further reflection on taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u22	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Ellen Samyn and the reply of the Minister for Pensions and Social Integration, responsible for Persons with Disabilities, Combating Poverty and Beliris, - in view of the current problems of mourning leave and, by extension, the administrative and financial malle mill in which the survivors end up; - having regard to the fact that the Minister himself stated in the weekly Dag Allen at the end of December that "the transitional allowance system is not ideal"; - having regard to the fact that such discrimination has been indicted for years by conflicts of interest; calls on the Government - provide specific support measures for this target group, - take initiatives to pay the survivor's pension net as non-taxable compensation in order to avoid high tax charges; - consider paying a transitional allowance as long as there are children studying, and if a number of conditions are met." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms Ellen Samyn and the response of the Minister for Pensions and Social Integration, responsible for Disabled Persons, the Fight against Poverty and Beliris, - in view of the current problem of bereavement leave and by extension, the administrative and financial harassment that families face; - since the minister herself told the weekly Dag Allemaal at the end of December that the transitional allowance system was not ideal; - since associations defending the interests of the persons concerned have been denouncing this discrimination for many years; asks the government - provide for specific accompanying measures for this target group; - take initiatives to ensure that the survivor's pension is paid in net as a non-taxable allowance to avoid high taxation; - consider the payment of a transitional allowance as long as children are educated and subject to certain conditions." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sophie Thémont. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sophie Thémont. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u23	The European Disability Card is an official card that promotes the inclusion of people with disabilities in culture, sport, mobility and leisure activities. The organisers of the activities choose the advantages they give to the card. The advantages of this card are numerous. Moreover, the card is much more practical in use than a document from the FPS Social Security Office to show that one has a disability. The card is recognised in several European countries, allowing the EDC to be used cross-border.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u24	Ms Lanjri, disabled people have been able to apply for a European disability card since November 2017. Since the introduction of this card, more than 80,000 copies have been delivered in Belgium. The European project at the heart of the European Disability Card (EDC) focused primarily on four areas: sport, culture, leisure and transport. In Belgium, the card is only used for the first three domains. In our country, the project was developed on the basis of cooperation between the federal government and the Länder with the participation of five institutions responsible for granting benefits and assistance to people with disabilities. These are the FPS Social Security, the Flemish Agency for Persons with a Handicap, PHARE, AViQ and DSL. The National High Council for Persons with a Handicap and the WDF have been involved since the start. They form the basis of a European initiative. Two weeks ago, the European Commission launched a new European strategy for the rights of people with disabilities. One of the initiatives put forward by the Commission is the intention to propose the general application of the EDC to all Member States by the end of 2023, drawing on the experience of eight Member States, including Belgium. I intend to use this European ambition and the Belgian expertise to promote the use of this card, both among the people who could benefit from it and among the potential partners to expand the offer. Indeed, the EDC could also be used in other areas, such as the economy, aid and security. After we've promoted the map, we can consider the questions you're asking us in a second phase. I am convinced that this card can contribute to the inclusion of people with disabilities in our society. I will certainly be committed to this dossier. Finally, I would like to say that the improvement of the EDC website is also one of the priorities. This website should become more user-friendly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u25	Madam Minister, I do not need to explain to you that the EDC card is an extremely important tool for people with disabilities so that they can participate in our society in all possible ways. That card is not only meant to give discounts or certain benefits to people with disabilities in the areas of sport, culture and leisure, that card can mean much more. It is a handy card, in bank card format and plasticized, which one can easily carry and, for example, quickly present to prove a disability. In France this is already being applied much more than in our country and in France it is also much more well known. That card is a good means for its owner to prove the disability, rather than showing a document or a letter from DG Han, a letter explaining the disability. Such a letter is not convenient. That is why I am calling for the second phase. It is more than just the use of sport, culture and leisure time. That card can also be used to show the handicap. We shouldn't wait for that. You say that you want to do so afterwards, after the generalization, but it is already necessary today. For example, sometimes people with autism get a fine when arrested by the police because the police people believe that the person in question does not want to cooperate. In that case, if the person concerned can show a card, that is a solution. I have asked the Minister of the Interior to make the map known to the police and she will do her best to do so. However, instead of having to ask every minister to apply that in his or her domain, I ask you, as Minister for Persons with Disabilities, to ask your fellow ministers to do all that is necessary in their domain now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u26	That's a good idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u27	Voilà. If there is a need for a legislative initiative, you can do so in cooperation with your fellow ministers. You can't wait to do that. I notice that some shops already want to give priority to people in queues in one way or another. Ikea, for example, gives priority to people with disabilities. Then that card can be used to show the handicap. A handicap is not always easy to read. Sometimes it can also be a mental handicap that cannot be seen. Then people are sometimes looked at wrongly by others and so it is good to be able to present the card. I would therefore ask you to make this card public in the other areas, and not to wait for the second stage. Otherwise, they're gonna have to wait a long time. I have also noticed that some city councils do not want to cooperate. They say this card doesn't have to be because they have their own card. I've even seen it in Antwerp. Now we come back to that decision and we have realised that it would be better to do so. But they didn't want it at first. Other municipalities set a good example and they should be able to move forward. For federal powers, the card is useful, not just when it comes to security. The paramedics can also know that they are dealing with a person with disabilities. That's what the ticket's for. Then use it. Madam Minister, I urge you to urge the relevant ministers Vandenbroucke and Dermagne to promote the card and make it known. These are my very specific suggestions. Finally, the website. Madam Secretary, did you know that the latest information on the EDC map on DG Han's website dates from October 2020? That was five months ago. In five months the world will change, I say, especially with regard to the EDC map and all applications and possibilities. For example, the Roma have joined. This is not found on the website. That shouldn't take five months, not more than a week. The website should be updated weekly anyway. If municipal authorities, cultural institutions or anyone else decide to do something with the map, would they have to put it on the website immediately? That has not happened since October 2020. I don't think that's a good example.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u28	If I had inherited another administration, things would be better! As I have already told you, I will not be able to resolve in three months what the five ministers before me have failed to do. You are aware of the situation in DG People with Disabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u29	The website is also very important. Access to information is very important. Madam Secretary, that is something that is easy to solve, the rest will take some time. However, the problem of the website can be solved immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u30	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u31	The grant of the 50 euro premium indeed depends on the status of the rightholder. At present, the measure applies only to persons entitled to a living wage, to persons with disabilities or to an IGA. That decision was still taken by the previous government. It is true that disabled people and the unemployed cannot benefit from this. As regards the principle of law, the caselaw concludes that the difference is not contrary to the principle of equality. I agree with you on the principle, but no consensus has been reached on this in the government so far. I can confirm that the premium will be awarded retroactively under the amended law on the price of love. The grant of the corona premium depends on the period of entitlement to an IVT or IT and not on the date of the decision. If the IVT or IT is granted retroactively, the same shall apply to the premium. Specifically, it means that those who are entitled to an IT by abolishing the price of love from 1 January will also receive the premium with retroactive effect from that date. That will be done in the form of backseats. Finally, I also have some good news for you about the extension of the premiums. After all, the government decided on my initiative to extend the measure until the end of June. The draft law on this subject will be discussed in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u32	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply. It is good to know that the premium will be paid retroactively. Fifty euros may not seem much, but for many people it saves a lot at the end of the month. The extension of the measure is certainly a good thing, which we will fully support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u33	Madam Minister, I refer to the version of my question that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u34	Since 2015, a person who has a career of at least 45 years at the starting date of his pension is entitled to combine this pension unlimitedly with a professional activity. However, in Belgium there is a basic ban on combining social security benefits. We are talking about two replacement incomes and we can only get one replacement income. It is therefore not possible to combine a retirement pension with a sickness benefit. If you receive a replacement income during a given month, your retirement pension will be suspended for that calendar month.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u35	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u36	Minister, the financial situation of single-parent families, made up of more than 80% by single mothers, is more precarious than that of other forms of household. Separation is a time when women are getting poorer, as it leads to lower incomes and a higher standard of living than men.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the cost of a household alone is the fate of the growing number of single-parent families. This is an untenable situation for the most precarious. European figures on over-indebtedness show that single-parent families have been overrepresented for more than ten years. In 80 per cent of cases, women are the heads of these families. These figures must of course challenge us. In many cases, maintenance payments that are due are never received. Single-parent families are an audience to which we must pay close attention when it comes to the fight against poverty. They will also be at the heart of the future poverty plan. Measures for access to alimony and debt mediation will have to be taken. Behind these mothers in difficulty, we must never forget the children, who suffer the heavy consequences. We must fight against the intergenerational reproduction of poverty and cannot accept that today's poor children are tomorrow's poor adults. As far as children are concerned, there is no expenditure, there are only investments. This is why the MIRIAM pilot project was launched in the CPAS in order to provide targeted and reinforced assistance to this particularly disadvantaged audience, of which debt mediation can be a part. In order to understand the extent of the situation, out of 50,819 single-parent families receiving social integration income in Belgium in 2019, 44,815 were headed by a woman, or more than 88%. Evaluations show the effectiveness of this project through the overall improvement of the situation of women, including their financial situation. Nevertheless, its effect remains limited to a few CPAS per year and to a dozen women per CPAS. I am particularly interested in this project, and we are working on a more structural and far-reaching MIRIAM 4.0 to reach more single mothers, or single-parent families, who come knocking on the door of our CPAS. I will certainly come back to you about this new project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u38	Thank you, minister, for that answer. It is good news that this more structural MIRIAM 4.0 project is coming to light. I'm astonished by the numbers you gave me, I'm glad to have them. I will not fail to ask you a question on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u39	Last week, in the Chamber, we adopted a proposal which finally enshrined the rights of persons with disabilities in the Constitution. It is our responsibility to ensure that this article does not remain a dead letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u40	As you rightly point out, real work is very important for the inclusion of people with disabilities in our society. Their full inclusion will only be possible if every minister supports this idea. As part of the Federal Disability Plan, I will also meet with all ministers to encourage them to pursue a policy that is structuralally improving the daily lives of this group. The first step has already been taken because my cabinet has already consulted Minister De Sutter on the measures to be taken. With this plan, I want to take proactive action and take concrete measures. World Down Syndrome Day, on 21 March, allows us to bring these children and adults to the fore. We can loudly repeat the desire for them to be fully incorporated into society. However, as Minister responsible for Persons with disabilities, I want to remain as objective as possible and create the opportunity for all people, regardless of their disability, to find a suitable job. Therefore, reasonable adjustments, which are now enshrined in the Constitution, are made possible for all persons with disabilities who are requested to do so. As these measures cover different areas and levels, they will have to be discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conferences. I certainly do not intend to wait a long time to deal with this issue, in consultation with my colleagues in the Länder. After all, employment is also a regional competence. So we are all involved in helping these people who can and want to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u41	Madam Minister, in the plenary session on Thursday 10 March 2021, we adopted a bill that Sabine de Béthune had put in the Senate. A proposal has been made together with colleagues from other groups. I had also tabled the bill in the Chamber to anchor the rights of people with disabilities in the Constitution. It was accepted last week. That's very good, but we have to make sure this doesn't remain a dead letter. When we say that people should be part of it, they should be part of it in all areas, including employment. I'm the first to say we can't make a distinction. Every disability is a disability, physical or mental, whether it is suffering from down syndrome or not. Action must be taken in the area of work for all. I ask the question specifically in relation to persons with Down syndrome, because I notice that in our country none of those persons are yet employed in a regular job, provided that the necessary adjustments are made. That is the case in our neighbouring countries. But in our country, nobody with Down's syndrome is employed in a normal function, in a normal business, in the normal economic circuit. I'm not talking about tailor-made companies. This is already happening in Germany, Sweden, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and France, but not yet with us. I would very much like people with Down's syndrome to be able to participate in a normal economic circuit, subject to adjustments. Of course, the government, as the country's largest employer, has an exemplary role in this. It's a good thing we're doing something about that. When I look at the numbers, I see they're undersized. 1.22 % is terribly low. The private sector is doing better than the government. So that has to change and improve. I'd really like to ask for specific attention for people with Down syndrome. Like others, they also have the right to perform a job, possibly with adjustments in the workplace. I want to fight for that with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u42	(...) enterprises in restaurants not adapted, but normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u43	I do not see Mr Bayet, so his question No. 55015361C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u44	I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u45	Mrs Lanjri, education and training are an essential link in building a future. Nevertheless, our legislation does not contain any specific rules for young people with disabilities who continue to study. I can confirm that it cannot be that a student is not entitled to an IVT or IT. Benefits may be combined with training or retraining. For each application, it is necessary to examine whether the possibilities of earning an income and/or living independently are significantly limited by the disability. That evaluation should take into account in particular the limitation and impact it has on his or her future work situation and also studies. A doctor might consider that the ability to award an IVT or IT to the person concerned has not been sufficiently reduced. However, that problem has not yet occurred. If there were such an interpretation, I assure you that I will take the necessary measures. With regard to your question about the Communities, I note that receiving a study grant depends on different conditions, such as family income, IVT and IT. The reduction in age should therefore not change anything in legal terms either. The specific fact that the federal benefits cannot be combined with the grant at state level is a decision of the Communities. I am, of course, prepared to meet my colleagues if they so wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u46	Madam Minister, I asked the question because I also think that someone with a disability who is receiving a health allowance and who is making the effort to continue studying should also have an integration meeting. I am not talking about income replacement, but simply about integration. You say there haven't been any such cases. I know about these cases, and I'll get them to you. I ask the question more generally because it is not about this case to me. If that happens to one person, it means that it probably happens in other cases as well. It shouldn't be. People with disabilities who receive a health allowance from their region who turn 18 or 19 and decide to try to go to a college do not get integration from DG HAN because they may well be able to work later because they are studying now. We don't know. Maybe that person doesn't work late at all. Maybe he's working in a customized form. We must not anticipate this. If that person had a disability in the past 18 years, that disability is not suddenly gone when that person tries to study further. That's completely wrong. At the very least, integration should be provided in order to at least help the person concerned with tools, such as a customized computer, in order to be able to take lessons. It's terrible that that's being denied. That's really weird. In addition, you say that it is up to the Communities to decide whether they can combine the two, in this case the care allowance. I've already made that plea in Flanders. I have already asked, but it would be good if you also discussed this at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on People with Disabilities. We need to support people with disabilities as much as possible, rather than taking away their healthcare allowance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u47	Debates of the European Parliament 55015427C and 55015428C by Mrs Willaert have been converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament 55015465C by Mrs De Block is part of joint questions with Mr Van der Donkt. Mrs. De Block had asked to postpone her question. Can this question be separated from Mr Van der Donkt's question?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u48	Madam President, I do not understand why these two questions were linked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u49	The questions will be dealt with separately.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u50	Madam Minister, I am very interested in your large pension plans and have asked many questions about them. You referred me every time to September and even later, let us hope that we do not want to talk about social dialogue. I was therefore surprised when I read on Monday in Wouter Versmelden's daily newsletter that you would have advanced very far with your major pension reform, that you would already have concrete plans and that we should soon be expecting your initiatives in Parliament. Hence my questions, Madam Secretary, because you know that I am very curious. Is the information correct that the broad lines of your pension reform have already been written out? Have you held a number of social consultations to this end? I mean with both trade unions and employers' organizations? When will you come to propose your reform in Parliament? Will that be before September 2021? Or do we still have to show some patience? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the recognition by the journalist of the work we have done, because it is true. It's true that I'm proud of that. My associates and my administration haven't been idle in the last few months. Firstly, we achieved an unprecedented increase in minimum pensions for the next four years. We achieved an equivalent increase for benefits and social assistance. Over 800,000 beneficiaries will receive significantly higher benefits in the following years. It was more than time and that measure has already been implemented and guaranteed. As far as structural reform is concerned, we have not been idle either, which seems logical to me. In accordance with the mandate I was given in the framework of the coalition agreement, I immediately started the consultation. I met workers' organisations, employers' organisations, interest groups, various academics and you name it. These consultations are necessary in order to establish the framework in which structural reform can be successful. The success of such a reform, which restores confidence, is all that matters to me. The trust has been completely gone over the past few years. If I can submit texts to Parliament, a large part will depend on social dialogue. In addition to the consultations that we have now conducted mostly bilaterally, the social partners will soon be put to work. They're at the wheel. I'm just pointing in the direction. As soon as the social dialogue is concluded, the parliamentary debate will certainly take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u52	In other words, Minister, you say that we still need to be patient. Anyway, I was amazed at the report of a journalist, who is generally very well informed and very careful. I will not deny that you and your cabinet have already worked hard. You have indeed prepared a number of areas, but I am still waiting for the major reform. I have just been poking on the employers' side, I suppose Mr Colebunders would rather be wristing on the workers' side, and those people fell out of the sky when they heard about that article. They had not yet heard of it and said that there might have been some contacts, but certainly not structural consultations, as I thought I would derive from the article. You will undoubtedly continue to hunt behind a plan that would come as soon as possible. If that's gonna be okay, we'll see. I would have hoped that today you would give a little hint of the veil, but I understand that you would like to prepare your plan in serenity. Don't forget to involve all actors in the field. We're the last ones to come, which isn't really fair. Perhaps you can work with a preliminary draft, as it seems to fit in with the new political culture. Madam Secretary, if anything new pops up, I will question you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u53	Debates of the European Parliament 55015483C by Mrs Leroy was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u54	Madam Secretary, we've come a long way here in the miners' file. I would really like to ask you, on behalf of our group, to thank the Pension Service for the hard work they have done. What's good is good. I do have a few more questions. I understand the fatigue strikes. The agreement was that all the files would have been dealt with by the end of March, but I can see that there are still some problems. In the meantime, where are we on the payout and handling of the files? You said this would be completed by the end of March. On 27 January I questioned you about the accessibility of the information number to which the miners can call. A lot of people living abroad in the meantime didn't get in on that number. It also responds to mails. Is there a separate service for that? Why is this problem so big among the people living abroad? Finally, I have a question about the amount allocated by the FPD. We understand that everything was hand-in-hand. A typo was quickly made. I've seen hundreds of files. Every week, miners sit with me with their files. Each file is of course different, but I can see that these amounts are different. I'm sure there are errors in some files. The problem is the recalculation procedure. People send a registered letter. There is no response to that. One then looks at mypension.be where it says: closed. I don't think this is the kind of communication we want. I understand that the Pension Service has already done a lot of work, but time is running out. A lot of people are scared. Many received all their money in January. I think there's still some mistakes in it. The people who call to fight that get a fairly short answer to go to court with the file. That sounds weird to me. Such files of retroactive repayment have not yet been presented in Belgian history. This is new for all of us, but if the Pension Service is still biting its teeth, we must be able to do something about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u55	My answer contains a lot of numbers. At present, 88 % of the files have been completed. This means that they have been granted in conformity and have been paid out. As far as the allocation is concerned, 91 per cent of the dossiers have been completed. 90% of them are in conformity. For 10,913 files an E.R. was sent. Of these, the EBOs were processed for 10,673 files. As far as conformity is concerned, 149 EBOs are still open for manual processing. There are still 497 manual balances to settle. Finally, 1,700 complex files remain of miners with careers abroad, which still have to be dealt with. The deadline, by the end of March, is a tight deadline, but the Federal Pension Service is doing its best to make it. With regard to the problems with the information number, the same number remains available, but the regional offices stand by for more specific questions. Conflicts can be reported through the traditional channels to file a complaint.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u56	Madam Secretary, I find the traditional channels of complaint difficult. 'Cause I called myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u57	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u58	You say there's a number on which to report a complaint.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u59	That's the usual number.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u60	I've tried calling myself a few times. I've been very well received, but often people answer the phone and they say they don't know the file, they just sit there to answer the phone and they'll call me or they'll ask me if they want to call me back. As I promised you, I will not speak to you about the date of the end of March, but about whether there was a commitment or not. We have to play the game fair. If that's the middle of April, so be it. I just want everyone to get what he's entitled to, no more and no less. As far as the matter of taxation is concerned, I have to address your colleague. However, I would ask you to look at these revisions. Often there is real ground for revision. If everyone gets 11,000 to 15,000 euros and then someone gets 3,000 or 4,000 euros, then they know something is wrong and they need someone to help them. So I'd like to ask you to reconsider that. I know, of course, that we are not allowed to question you about individual files.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u61	Madam Minister, I apologise for having to leave the sitting earlier, while you were perhaps giving an answer when discussing the draft law. There was also a question from me at another committee meeting. So I'm here to apologize. It's part of the job. I will read your reply in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic417x.u62	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. Good afternoon and evening.
