ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to deal with speaking time strictly and not too long? After all, we will have to end this sitting at 5.30 p.m. or at the latest at 5.45 p.m. Mrs Muylle and Mrs Gilson have been apologized. Since we are in a topical debate, their questions lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u2	I refer to my questions, Mr President. I also have a number of additional questions, Minister. Firstly, as far as the embassy staff in our country are concerned, is it true that the foreign diplomats in our country must follow the Belgian strategy as far as possible? Belgium would be the only country to indicate that embassy staff are best not vaccinated for the time being. Could you point that out for me, please? Secondly, as far as vaccination is concerned, we are beginning to vaccinate a larger population. The latest figures on vaccination readiness date from December. Do you have an update on that? Thirdly, in France, a Breton variant would have emerged that would escape the PCR tests. Are we prepared for that? Are there any instructions given to the doctors, in case there are certain symptoms but the PCR test is negative? Fourthly, what actions are being taken to monitor the positivity ratio and adjust the test strategy when it is high, as we see in certain provinces? Fifth, according to Dr Van Braeckel, whom I heard on Radio 1 this morning, the number of patients with ICU is rising sharply, but they are not sure if they are carriers of a particular variant. Should we not give priority to the definition of this among the people who are in intensive care? In this way, we could also detect certain patterns. Finally, the hostess on Radio 1 concluded with the words: "Now we know why we have to stay inside." People still think they should stay inside. Can you also think of an one-liner that lingers, so people prefer to go outside?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u3	Mr President, Minister, I had asked the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration about the procedure for vaccinations in open and closed centres. The Secretary of State replied that he does not yet have procedures for the staff or for the residents. When exactly are we going to have these procedures? What if these people refuse? This is often the case in asylum centres because of the problems of reception and return. How will you catch this? What is the total estimated cost of vaccinations in the asylum centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I refer to the questions put in writing, but I would like to add a few more orally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u5	A first question concerns the EEA's recent press conference on the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine. In accordance with that press conference, you decided that the vaccination campaign with the AstraZeneca vaccine will continue in our country. I believe that this is also scientifically justified. However, I would like to present the following. I also read an article from the International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis that gives very specific advice to patients taking anticoagulants. It is indicated that it is best to take the blood thinners immediately after the injection of the vaccine and not before. Are you prepared to communicate that very clearly to the people? It was communicated today via a link to the general practitioners, but I think there are so many questions among the population that a very clear communication is required to make that clear to them. Secondly, in the context of transparency and openness of administration, I would have liked to request the advice of the FAGG and the Task Force Vaccination to the IMCs. I can't find those advices anywhere, not on info-coronavirus.be or on the site where the reports of those IMCs can be found. The Commission for access to administrative documents is in favour of us having access to these opinions. The same applies to the report of the inspection on the site of AstraZeneca in Seneffe. This inspection was carried out at the request of the Belgian authorities, although requested by the European Commission, but falls under Belgian law, which should in principle make the report public. I would like to have access to that report so that I can take note of the conclusions. Today there has also been a communication in the United States about an agreement between the US government and AstraZeneca on monoclonal antibodies. They have not yet been approved by the FDA, but they are expected to be approved. What's that about in Europe? Will the EEA carry out a review? Has Europe signed contracts with AstraZeneca? Those monoclonal bodies, called AZD7442, appear to have good reactions. Shall we proceed to the purchase of that medication? Pfizer has announced that 10 million additional doses will be sent to Europe in the second quarter. If we take a turn, there's 250,000 for our country. Have you been confirmed that they will be delivered?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u6	Mrs Depoorter, I don't doubt you're right, but are you sure Pfizer was talking about 10 million doses in the announcement? How do you think Pfizer put that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u7	Ten million doses were provided for under the 200 million doses that would be delivered later this year, going to the European Union. If I convert it, there are 500,000 of them for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u8	All right, well, that makes the question very clear, she'll be answered shortly. I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I have tabled one question concerning the recognition, even in this crisis, of the paramedics. I refer to my written question. At the same time, I should like to apologize, because since I am a member of the Committee on Social Affairs, I will have to read your answer to my question in the report of this sitting. Because of the discussion of priority legislative proposals, I have to be present on the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u10	Mr President, Minister, I refer to my three written questions on communication on vaccines. How do we communicate that they're safe? Another point is grief counseling. Now that we have been seeing high mortality rates every day for a year and know that family members have had to say goodbye, without really being able to say goodbye, in very small groups, I wonder whether we can do anything more in this area in the context of mental health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u11	Mr President, I refer to my question No 55015262C concerning hackaton organised for young people to involve them in the communication on coronavirus. The main question is whether it is simply to involve them in the communication or also in the decision-making process and therefore to broaden the dialogue on the measures that are being taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u12	Minister, I wanted to go back to the cases of thrombosis that have been reported to AFMPS. Belgium has decided not to suspend vaccination. I'm not going to get into the clinical debate. The problem is that in terms of communication, coherence, trust and public acceptance, it is very difficult to understand. It is very difficult to get this issue of management and benefit-risk balance across the population. What steps are you going to take to ensure that the vaccination plan stays well on track? As far as testing is concerned, can you explain the testing strategy you announced at the Consultation Committee on 5 March? You're talking about a massive deployment of rapid tests but not until May. Why only in May? What are the blockages? Finally, with regard to vaccination in prisons and social welfare institutions, can you indicate what decision has been taken to start vaccination? We interviewed Minister Van Quickenborne and announced that the intention was to give priority to vulnerable detainees, particularly in Merksplas, Saint-Hubert, the Paifve Social Defence Institution and the care sections of the prisons of Bruges, Lantin and Saint-Gilles. There are inmates over the age of 65 who have comorbidities, who are at risk of catching a covid, as in any community, and who are also at risk of saturating intensive care. Minister, what is your plan to start vaccination in prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u13	Minister, my first question concerns vaccination in prisons. To date, no guards or detainees have had access to vaccination. According to Sciensano, prisons are catalogued at the same level of risk as rest homes, which are a priority. What about a possible vaccination campaign in prisons, for both prisoners and staff? My second question concerns the vaccination communication strategy. In fact, in recent weeks, the generalists have been beset with questions from patients who are concerned about vaccination, rightly. Moreover, it would appear that the information sites created by the authorities are not sufficiently understandable by the majority. When a patient calls a telephone number that is supposed to help him or her, he or she is almost systematically referred to his or her general practitioner. Minister, how do you plan to improve immunization-related communication so that it is more effective and, above all, more understandable to the public? Are you considering involving the generalists further in this upcoming vaccination strategy? My last question concerns the AstraZeneca vaccine. As we have just heard, the European Medicines Agency has reaffirmed its confidence in this vaccine, before further studies on this vaccine; indeed, we find ourselves faced with citizens who, quite rightly, no longer really know what saint to devote himself to and have hesitations. For accession to the vaccination campaign, this only fuels mistrust. Is there a clear communication on this vaccination and vaccine? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u14	Mr Minister, today the news is really focused on vaccination, and that is quite normal. We want vaccination to accelerate, be efficient and gain the support of our fellow citizens. However, there are still, in the long term, indirect consequences of covid. I always come back with the same litany. It concerns psychiatric care and mental health. For several months, psychiatric units have been overwhelmed, especially by admissions of young people between the ages of 18 and 25, confirms Dr. Ivan Godfroid, head of the psychiatric service of the CHU of Charleroi. The 300 beds on the Van Gogh site are now filled. In the 65 mental health centres in Wallonia, it is total saturation, demand is exploding, services are burdened. Almost 100 per cent of the child-psychiatric units are filled in the country. Queen Fabiola Children's Hospital recorded a 40% increase in consultations in January 2021, compared to the previous year. In pediatrics, in Braine-l'Alleud, the hospital has not responded to applications for hospitalization for more than five weeks. There is a minimum waiting period of three months to be hospitalized. Mr Minister, the figures are obviously more than worrying: they are alarming. Have you, in consultation with your colleagues from the federated entities, referred to a comprehensive plan of action to bring about concrete solutions to this situation, which is prevailing today? We know that the health crisis and the measures it has led to have not had a uniform impact on the population. Not all of us have the same facilities, the same life, the same living conditions. I also fear that this pandemic will increase mental health inequalities. Have you discussed with your government colleagues and federal entities to take steps to contain or limit these types of inequalities? My second question is about the suicide census. Various press releases reported the saturation of mental health services. There is also the problem of questioning the number of suicides today. The latest published figures date from 2016 with a standardised suicide mortality rate in Belgium of 17 per 100 000 inhabitants, while the European average is 10 per 100 000 inhabitants. Have there been any other figures since then? According to Sciensano, 8% of adults had suicidal thoughts during the first confinement. What are the suicide census figures in Belgium in 2019, 2020 and 2021? Do you have more specific information about the most affected environments and age groups? Finally, my concern concerns the economic victims of the crisis. By multiplying funding arrangements, our government is now limiting the effects of the pandemic. But the 1929 stock market crash like Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy in 2008 had terrible consequences for suicide-related overmortality. What preventive health measures are envisaged in order to avoid a resurgence of suicides in the years to come?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u15	Thank you, Mr. Rigot. And, for the sake of equality, I also thank the PS Group for not exhausting all its time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u16	Mr President, I will do my best to be as good as the PS this time. I refer to the written versions of my questions on the update of the corona vaccines, on the deployment of the occupational health service and on fake vaccines. In the light of current events, I have a number of questions for you, Minister. Can you give an update of the data related to the number of cases per variant and how it affects the infection curve? Yesterday, Germany joined the list of countries that stopped administering the AstraZeneca vaccine. I understand the list has now been thickened to 12. To the questions about your response to this, whether you have changed your attitude to the administration of that vaccine, whether or not you are considering discontinuation, there is already an answer, so I can spare you that. The only thing I want to know from you in that context is this. The German Paul-Ehrlich Institute considered that further research was necessary. I wonder whether you consider such an investigation necessary and whether you will order it. Finally, Minister, I read to the left and right that the vaccines of Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna would be administered mainly in Wallonia and Brussels, whereas that of AstraZeneca would be administered mainly in Flanders. Anything on that? If so, is there a reason, or is that merely a coincidence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u17	Mr Minister, I refer to the written record of the questions on self-tests and the link to the catering industry; about the transmission of vaccines; about control after an essential journey; I think it has already been submitted for the second time; about the vaccination of diplomats and personnel and the almost diplomatic riot there; about the development of the covidant from lamas; and about the proportional, or not, distribution of covid vaccines. I would have liked to have heard your views and views on this, particularly in the light of the statements made by Austrian Chancellor Kurtz. Then I'd like to pick up on actuality, too. I had questioned you about it before, but I wish to do so again here. More studies are being carried out on natural immunity versus vaccination, or in combination with vaccination. I am talking about antibodies and T-cells that already remember coronaviruses from colds or pneumonia. It's under international investigation. I would have liked to know whether it is being investigated in Belgium. Will the immunity investigation be charged if the 70% vaccination rate is not reached? Before we would require vaccination, this could be looked at. Then, of course, it has to be investigated. I would like to have an answer and an opinion on that. What is the cause of the rising numbers of hospital admissions? What exactly is the source? In hospitals, it is recommended to report outbreaks. That's not mandatory. Should we not undertake an obligation to ensure that we are aware of the source of the infections in hospitals? We see a lot of outbreaks in hospitals. How come there's so many outbreaks? The hygiene and precautions should be 100% there, shouldn't they? How will you deal with the problem? Mr President, I have one final question. I'm hurrying. The figures are rising, but I would nevertheless like to talk about easing. Minister, I heard you this morning in the Morning. You noted at that time that people should not be fooled. However, it is your government and your Prime Minister who announced that on 1 May 2021 the catering industry would open up. The catering industry is therefore preparing for a reopening. Are there going to be relaxations anyway? Will the catering industry be able to open? Is this about the entire catering industry or only certain sub-sectors? I would like to repeat my question from two weeks ago. Minister, it's 18 days before Easter. Can there be relaxations in the light of Easter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u18	Mr President, Minister, in the fight against the pandemic, two things are really necessary: firstly, vaccination and, secondly, rationality, one not going without the other. In organizing the vaccination campaign, we have a duty to succeed and therefore to use the tools that we have in the best way. Today, beyond the benefit-risk balance that justifies vaccination amply, it seems to me necessary to object to the debate about the possible side effects of one or the other vaccine. We must therefore be able to provide very clear figures on the prevalence of symptoms described by several people who have been vaccinated. Indeed, it is necessary to compare this prevalence between populations vaccinated by different products and those not vaccinated – which can always become ill and show symptoms. It is not because the pandemic is being combated that all other pathologies are being eradicated. We therefore need to refine the figures in order to streamline the debate and restore some confidence. To do this, Minister, I do not change my point: the role of general practitioners seems essential to me. It is even more so at this time, given the problems reported in the media regarding the side effects attributed to certain vaccines. If we want to return to trust and membership, the role of generalists in immunization is paramount. For this reason, I repeat my question: when are we going to involve them more in this campaign?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u19	Mr President, Minister, given the time allotted, I will focus on the testing situation. While the PCR testing strategy continues to be under-exploited, given the capabilities and expertise available in our country, the federal authority has very marginally authorized a rapid testing pilot project in official pharmacies. Moreover, the question of self-tests arises, even though rapid tests – and antigenics, certainly – should be used massively. However, pharmacists are not allowed to participate in this organization. It is astounding to see that we are going to broadcast the self-tests, but at the same time that we are preventing these professionals from performing them. However, their integration would guarantee the formal tracing of test results. In addition, the validity of PCR tests appears to be questioned for some variants. You mentioned reset for vaccination. In view of what is happening at the testing level, I would like to see the same for the latter. I'm really worried about the announcements about what's going to happen in two months' time. Testing helps to limit spread, and can also help to treat more quickly. At present, however, very little testing is being done and hospitalizations are on the rise. Besides, we know that vaccination won't prevent us from testing and testing again because we're going to have to live with this virus. Furthermore, as an example of the operation, it appears that INAMI has not put in place the registration codes of the acts carried out by pharmacists in the pilot project on the testing of medicinal products. Minister, why are testing capabilities only used up to 40% while hospital admissions are on the rise? What initiatives have been taken to make greater use of our laboratory capabilities to ensure an intensification of PCR testing to detect infected people more quickly? What details can you provide about the validity of PCR tests for variants? How is it that INAMI has not yet created and communicated registration codes for pharmacists who have been tested as part of the pilot project authorized by the federal authority? What measures are being taken to allow access to the computer platform for recording tests for official pharmacists? What measures are being taken to ensure that the results of self-tests are recorded, and thus trace them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u20	I would like to refer to my questions, Mr President, so that the Minister can reply in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u21	I must congratulate you on that, Mrs Farih.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u22	Mr President, Minister, first of all I would like to point out that I asked a question about Belgium's position in the negotiations that did not lead to the World Trade Organisation. In fact, South Africa and India have the idea of lifting patents. Apparently, Europe does not follow at all. I would have liked to know Belgium's position as a result of this failure. I asked you, the Minister of Health, but the matter was referred to Mrs Wilmès, which I regret. Maybe you're still able to give me some information? My second question concerns the Sciensano report last week. It makes it clear that there are more and more clusters and infections in the workplace. You made an outing in De Standaard, whose article states that there are the largest number of clusters and infections in the cleaning sector, the construction sector and the food industry, but also among the police. On the other hand, you indicated that you were going to be more severe in telework, which surprised me somewhat. A housekeeper or building worker cannot do telework. Should we not take action on factories or workplaces where clusters appear? Do you have an action plan to respond appropriately to these areas? I come to a few topical questions about vaccination. Yesterday, we auditioned the Vaccination Task Force. Its representatives gave us details of the more than 500,000 doses of vaccine now stored in refrigerators in Belgium. You said that the vaccines were not there to stay in the refrigerators, but unfortunately, I see that the refrigerators are not empty: there are 173 000 doses of Pfizer, 297,000 doses of AstraZeneca – I round out – and 97 000 doses of Moderna. What's the plan to empty these fridges? Yesterday, we did not get a satisfactory answer on this matter. The current immunization capacity and the plan to accelerate vaccination have not been communicated to us. I'd like to have some explanations from you. Finally, in the 200 vaccination centres, is the vaccine only with the AstraZeneca vaccine or is it also vaccinated with the Pfizer vaccine? Or, are all centres vaccinated with both the AstraZeneca vaccine and the Pfizer vaccine? Can you give us any information in this regard? For the Moderna vaccine, I understood that it was only given in hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u23	Mr President, Minister, I refer to my written questions. The first question is about the Passenger Locator Form. Anyone travelling to or returning to Belgium, after a stay of more than 48 hours abroad, must fill out a PLF form. You will find the questions on this in the written record. My other questions are mainly about the vaccination campaign and the place of rapid testing in the test strategy. I refer to the outbreak that has recently occurred in a residential care center in Ooigem. The residents there had no significant symptoms after receiving a vaccine. The vaccine proves its usefulness. There were also eight staff members infected and some of them did not want to receive the vaccine. That is why I would have liked to know what your position is with regard to a possible mandatory vaccination of the care staff. That is a question which comes back regularly and which could be the subject of a debate. In addition to vaccination, rapid tests will play an important role in relaxing the measures. When do you expect the conditions for using a self-test to be cleared? Do you see the added value of that? How do you see its practical organisation? A great deal has already been said about the vaccination campaign, not only today, but also over the last few weeks and months. I can't ignore it myself. At present we do not know how long the various vaccines are working. Experts think that we will never achieve group immunity and that we will end up in an endemia sooner. It is important, however, that we vaccinate the most vulnerable and that we may continue to do so in the future. Have you already made preparations to be able to vaccinate those vulnerable groups permanently in the future, depending on the frequency required. What is most current at the moment, as all colleagues have already mentioned, is the situation of the AstraZeneca vaccine. I understand the decision not to stop the vaccination. That seems to me to be the only logical decision in these circumstances. People see that in the surrounding countries it is decided to stop vaccination with AstraZeneca. That's gonna affect confidence again. Based on what elements did you decide not to stop the vaccination? How do you see that the theme will be conclusive? Do you have a plan to restore confidence in AstraZeneca?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u24	Mr President, for the report I should like to refer to my questions. 55015205C, 55015369C and 55015373C. Minister, last week we read in The Newspaper "Antivax movement is a doctor who knows nothing about her cart." It is a disturbing title, in the sense that Doctors for Freedom, the association that argues against vaccination, gives on the website a list of doctors who say that they have not given permission to do so. Moreover, they are not anti-vaxers, these people are not at all against vaccinations. The Order of Doctors has already received several complaints about Doctors for Freedom but apparently they do not succeed in calling the people behind this organization into order. This is worrying as this is about undermining the vaccination strategy. What is your opinion, Minister? My second question concerns the vaccination passport. How do you feel about that? When I look at it that way, it creates quite a bit of inequality between the elderly and the young. After all, we do not choose when we will be vaccinated. However, I read that people who take a negative test could also receive a vaccination passport that is valid within Europe. That seems to me to create even more inequality. After all, one cannot guarantee that a person who has undergone a test two days later is still negative. So I do not think it would be advisable for such a person to have a vaccination passport. That doesn't just help inequality, it even seems dangerous. What's your opinion on the matter? For my final question, I refer to all possible scenarios that have been sent out into the world by all kinds of people on the field or from politics over the last few days and weeks. According to one, everyone will have been vaccinated on 11 July, according to the other it would be 14 days sooner or later. Can't that be put to an end somehow? We have heard Professor Ramaekers about this and at the moment no one can say when everyone will have had their shot given the uncertain delivery of the vaccines. Of course, we must try to provide as much certainty as possible, but what is now being claimed does not really help us. Minister, unlike colleagues, I will not ask a question about AstraZeneca. However, I am curious to hear your answers on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u25	Minister, with regard to the evolution of the epidemic, I have heard your various thoughts and I understand your call to increase the practice of telework. I would just like to encourage you and all government ministers to carry the same message. In fact, there is once again a cacophony on all these subjects, which does not lead to the trust or adherence of people to the various measures. A week ago, Minister Dermagne pleaded for a decrease in the progressive frequency of telework. I'm telling you as I think it's wrong! With regard to the AstraZeneca vaccine, the situation needs to be analysed with the utmost vigilance and transparency. This is vital for confidence and adherence to vaccination. Speaking of which, I already interviewed you last week. A series of data was already available. Since then, new data, notably in Germany yesterday with cases of disseminated intramuscular coagulation (DIVC), have been published. Does Belgium have at its disposal all the information reported by the different countries? Is there any analysis in progress in this area? At the level of the European Medicines Agency (EMA), further analyses are under way. This figure of 30 ischaemic vascular thrombotic-type complications is always cited, but on all vaccines administered, not the number of complications depending on the batch. Do you have information on the number of complications depending on the batches involved? This information seems important to me and we must communicate on this subject. Has there been any consultation between European countries on the decisions taken in recent days? Differences between drug agencies are a question. Finally, I asked you about the presence of lot ABV5300, but it seems that a second batch is also concerned, namely lot ABV2856. Does or does not Belgium have vaccines from this batch ABV2856? You've already told me about lot ABV5300. I would now like to turn to the performance of vaccination on the global campaign, which obviously remains a priority and major issue. We have to use our weapons 100 per cent. I've been following you for several weeks. I note again and again that you do not wish, and indeed all nine ministers of health, to involve general practitioners and medical specialists in vaccination. In relation to this, is it not time to set quantified performance targets to be achieved per week in the regions, to organise catch-up sessions? Almost 300,000 Pfizer and Moderna vaccines have been received in the last eight days. We have all the capacity to make much more progress. I think this is a major issue; you must now set numerical targets to be achieved in the regions. I'll take a look at the test to finish. I find it quite crazy that rapid tests and mass self-tests are planned only from May: it is too late, far too late! It's been months since it should be on its way. It is enough to see the good practices of other European countries. We need it so badly. Finally, in the case of waste water, I refer to my question No 55015321C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u26	Mr President, I refer to my written questions. Minister, this allows me, like my colleagues, to question you about the AstraZeneca vaccine. This new episode seriously harms a vaccination campaign that was already struggling to convince. Can you confirm that the study currently being carried out by the European Medicines Agency, the results of which are expected on Thursday, is pharmacovigilance, i.e. whether the pathological process had begun before vaccination? As regards your decision not to suspend the administration of this vaccine, you tell us that Belgium is not concerned with the consignments which would have been problematic in other countries. But if that were the case, it would suggest that the vaccine formula could vary from lot to lot. Are there any other problematic batches that would concern Belgium? Does the European Union have an overall view of which lots have been distributed in which state? Have you had contacts with the other countries concerned, but also with the European Union, to better understand the reasons for their decisions? Have you studied, however, the possibility of suspending this vaccine until Thursday, without delaying the vaccination campaign, e.g. by administering doses of Pfizer vaccine? These remain in the refrigerator, remain unused, since today, deliveries are more stable and the time between the two doses may have increased to 35 days. In the event of reassuring results, how do you expect to reassure the part of the population who is hesitant about the AstraZeneca vaccine but who, for the rest, wants to be vaccinated? Isn't it time to fully include general practitioners in our vaccination campaign? Many patients argue for freedom of choice for the vaccine given. What do you say to them today? If the European Medicines Agency investigation concluded that there was a causal link between AstraZeneca vaccine and thrombosis, and if there were other incidents in the meantime, who would be responsible? What would be the impact on the vaccination schedule, knowing that AstraZeneca still represents one in three doses? What alternatives do we have? On the federal Doclr vaccination platform, it is my responsibility that it would not be possible to opt for an alternative vaccination centre, for example closer to his home. Do you confirm that? Why wouldn't that be possible? Finally, with regard to the current epidemiological situation, we see that the figures are not good for hospitalizations and infections, on the contrary, for deaths, fortunately thanks to vaccination. Have there been any contacts with the federated entities responsible for tracing contacts in order to identify the causes of this upsurge? Have other cluster studies been conducted in addition to the one conducted by Sciensano, where 40% of the contaminated sites were located in companies? Do we also know to what extent the variants of the virus would cause these new contaminations? Ms. Quelin told us earlier that Sciensano was not receiving the data on the variants, despite the genome sequencing work? For the new Breton variant that is not detectable using the PCR test, Mr. Van Laethem spoke on this subject at noon saying that, even if it had not yet been detected in Belgium, it was worth improving our testing strategy. Will you, therefore, adapt your testing strategy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u27	Mr President, I shall begin by answering Mrs Rohonyi's questions. Clearly, the evolution of the epidemic is worrying. The level of circulation of the virus is high. We are at about 3,000 contaminations per day on average. But we are more concerned about the high – and increasing – number of new admissions to hospitals. The burden on the capacity of our hospitals is again becoming very heavy to bear. This is a matter of great concern and we must remain extremely vigilant. In addition, a certain discipline must be resumed, which we demonstrated in November, December and January, for example with regard to telework. It is clear, and understandable, that the effort to do telework has diminished. This is understandable because it becomes difficult, frustrating and complicated for both workers and their families and businesses. Nevertheless, it is absolutely necessary to resume this telework, which is also compulsory. You have to be extremely careful everywhere. We need to assess the situation and see if further action is needed. The first duty remains to apply strictly what has been agreed upon. Let me turn to the questions about vaccination. With regard to the campaign, currently at the Belgian level, 8.7% of adults have received a first dose and 4.3% of adults have received a second dose. Compared to the European average, this is not a very good performance. There is always a need to speed up the pace of vaccinations. There are considerable differences at the regional level, which shows that there is still considerable room for manoeuvre. The figures are known. In Flanders, the vaccination rate for the first dose is currently 9.5% for adults. This rate is 5.8% in Brussels, but it should be noted that the Brussels authorities are organizing a vaccination campaign which also benefits residents of Flanders and Wallonia. So this rate is really to be nuanced. In Wallonia, the current rate is 7.9% and it is 6% and in the German-speaking Community of Belgium. This indicates that there is considerable room for manoeuvre and a delay to be made. We work with the federated entities in a very correct, fair and cooperative manner to address the problems encountered, meet all the challenges and try to speed up the campaign further. You know that in terms of acceleration, the various decisions taken will allow us to speed up vaccination. I am thinking, among other things, of the fact that it has been decided that it is not necessary to have a Pfizer buffer stock for three weeks. A week is enough. A second recent decision is to further space the injection of the second dose. It can be up to 35 days. In addition, a series of minor, more technical elements should also speed up the campaign. It is an absolute priority for me that is continually debated because it is clear that the challenges remain very great. With regard to the debate on the quality of the AstraZeneca vaccine, we have followed a very clear opinion from the specialized subgroup of the Higher Health Council on the AstraZeneca vaccination campaign. With regard to the AstraZeneca campaign, based on this opinion, we decided to maintain the use of covid vaccination. As you can see, it is still the EMA's position that makes it clear that the risk/benefit balance requires the continuation of this vaccination campaign. We study all available data very closely. Some elements of context: Thromboembolic events exist, alas. These are frequent pathologies whose risk increases with age. Every year in Europe, among young people aged 18-24, there are 44 thromboembolic events per 100 thousand inhabitants. For people over 80 years of age, this number amounts to 2,055 cases per 100 thousand inhabitants. So far, 17 million people in Europe and the United Kingdom have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. The data evolve because we do not receive them in real time, but what we knew was that in this group, 15 cases developed DVT (Deep Vein Thrombosis-Vine thrombosis) and 22 cases of PE (Pulmonary Embolism-Lung Embolies). These are the numbers. And they're very small. Compared to the 17 million vaccinated, this represents 0.0002 per cent of cases. Normally, we would have expected 0.009%. So that's much less. Of course, there may be another reporting, because we may not have all the data available. However, this would mean that 1,530 cases would not have been registered. Of course, problems can only arise now. That is what needs to be considered. For Belgium, the latest figures indicate that six cases of thromboembolic events have been reported. We have to study them all. As I said, all European data must be collected. We must take advantage of this European cooperation to make a real assessment. It should be added that not only, apart from vaccination, this pathology is, unfortunately, common among the population, but also by considering those infected with the covid virus, a recent study estimates that 21% of these people have had a thromboembolic complication. Therefore, if we focus on the risks of thromboembolic pathology, covid is a real danger and the vaccine protects against this threat. Of course, there are side effects and there may be links between vaccination and phenomena that have so far been very rare, but which are related to thrombosis problems. These phenomena need to be studied in depth, in detail, in order to guarantee the safety of this vaccine to the population. That is what the European Medicines Agency must do and that is what we are demanding. Besides, we must not even demand it, the Agency will do it. As you have heard, the Agency has stated that it is necessary to continue the campaign, even if several countries do not. Thursday should see the publication of a first report of the Vigilance Committee at the level of the European Medicines Agency on the cases that have been reported. So I would just like to reiterate that it is extremely important for us to ensure that vaccines are safe and that all data on side effects are collected, collected and evaluated at European level, seriously, less severe.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is what the European Medicines Agency has just said. I would like to repeat: one in five of the people who get sick by covid gets a problem with thrombosis, 21 %. So this is a dangerous disease for thrombosis. The best protection against that disease is to vaccinate. At the same time, we need to examine whether or not certain vaccines might or might not pose a major risk to some particular group for side effects such as thrombosis. That is what we must do in the interests of public health. So I think we have made a good decision, and I do regret, quite frankly, that European decision-making is now taking place in a kind of chain reaction. That's not good. I think Mr Bacquelaine said that, among other things. That's not good, of course. I also said this this morning, at the Council of Health Ministers, that I am not okay with that. We should decide together and act together, on the basis of very precise data that we are actually a little missing. With regard to deliveries, perhaps I should first like to give a punctually, not to mention, something in response to Mrs Depoor's question. There has indeed been a press announcement that Pfizer would deliver 10 million extra doses. That has been confirmed on the left and right, I think. That would be in the second quarter, but I must honestly say that I read it as if it would be the end of the second quarter. That's how I read it, with caution. Of course, that's good news. Secondly, it is also true that in March we will get something extra that was not foreseen and has not yet been included in our planning. It is a delivery of 121,000 doses. In April there will be a little less than what was promised, but the 121,000 extra doses of Pfizer are a not insignificant acceleration in March. That's good news. The bad news remains that AstraZeneca, in proportion to what was promised before March, delivers 200,000 doses less. We therefore continue to face this uncertainty. Mrs Depoorter, you had a question about the International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis (ISTH). I do not have an answer to that right now, but I will take note of that question and look at it further. It's about patients being treated with anticoagulants. Your question is when they should be given in proportion to the time of vaccination. Is that right, Mrs. Depoorter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u28	Minister, I am actually asking for the advice to be made public. ISTH advises that the patient preferably takes the anticoagulant after vaccination, not before. I think that's important information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u29	Mrs Depoorter, thank you for repeating the question. I'm afraid to answer them now, but I'll check. You also asked for the advice. The FAGG's opinions contain some European confidential information about the vaccines, including because the price information is included. I'll have to look into that. I should like to ask the European Commission about the inspection report on Seneffe, but I do not think there is any problem in making that public. Nor do I feel that you will learn much from it today, relevant to the current problem, but that is no reason not to make it public, provided that the European Commission agrees with that. About the further deliveries I can say that Pfizer is generally very faithful to the promised schedule. Also for Moderna the deliveries are currently in accordance with the contractual agreements. The planned deliveries by Moderna for the second quarter were slightly increased, they go to about 900,000 doses for the second quarter. We expect deliveries from Johnson & Johnson, without any confirmation, as of April. In my tables, in very general terms, it is 1 400 000, but that is uncertain and not yet promised by Johnson and Johnson. For Pfizer, for the second quarter, I come to 4.5 million. For AstraZeneca I have a big fork and a lot of uncertainty, between 1.6 and 2.1 million. I ask you once again to be very careful with those figures, because the figures I give you now are not commitments, they are promises. If Johnson and Johnson can deliver sufficient quantities quickly, that would be very good. If Pfizer can indeed come up with 10 million extra doses by the end of the second quarter, that is also good for us; although that does not yield a very large extra, but all the extras are nicely taken away. The vaccination is the way out of this epidemic. We firmly believe in this, and we are firmly convinced that it will succeed. In spite of all the difficulties with deliveries, discussions on quality and practical difficulties in the campaign, we must not lose sight of them. General practitioners are key players – I can only point out – that allow our health care system to be considered one of the best in the world. In addition, the relationship of trust that they have built over the years with their patients is essential to convince a portion of the population to be vaccinated. It is for this reason that the representatives of doctors have been integrated, for many weeks, in various working groups set up by the Vaccination Task Force. Moreover, the work to which they contribute is not only useful, but also valuable for the task force, since it is on the basis of this work that the majority of the decisions of the task force are taken. With respect to the possibility for physicians to administer the vaccine during their consultations, I have no objection in principle to this issue. But I believe that this option is unfortunately not realistic at this stage, particularly because of the conservation conditions of certain vaccines. For example, for the AstraZeneca vaccine, these are 10-dose vials; knowing that there are 10 vials per box, this represents 100 doses of vaccine. So for doctors, it's 100 doses or nothing! Under these conditions and in the present phase, there is a problem of possible waste. The problems associated with Pfizer's conservation conditions are also well known. It is therefore difficult enough for general practitioners to organize vaccinations with this vaccine in their practice. But – I repeat – there is no question of a position of principle, quite the contrary! Home immunization exists, but it is very limited. Only persons who are bedridden or unable to leave their home due to mental illness, for example, may be vaccinated at home. According to an estimate made, this would involve 10 to 15 patients per general practitioner. The occupational health services have been used for the vaccination of the people in the residential care centers. At present, we do not have any involvement of occupational health services in our planning, but this does not mean that they could be employed at a later stage, in consultation with the social partners. The Supreme Health Council has set out a number of criteria to determine who is at risk and is therefore more likely to end up in hospital in case of infection with the coronavirus. Based on the criteria of the Supreme Health Council, health insurance funds can also detect patients on the basis of their data on reimbursement of medicines or medical treatment. The national registry number can be passed on to the vaccination code database of Sciensano, which can only be used as part of the vaccination campaign. That data will be destroyed no later than five working days after the end of the corona pandemic. Medical data will not be shared at any time. The detection of patients at risk will be carried out under the supervision of the doctor in charge of the sickness fund. Furthermore, risk patients will also be able to be detected through their treating physician, including the general practitioner. It will enter their data directly into the vaccination code database. If they are available to health insurance funds, they can also send cell phone numbers and e-mail addresses from their members to that database, which allows them to be used. But these data also serve only for the vaccination campaign and they will be destroyed after the corona pandemic. The database shall contain the name, first name, sex, date of birth and address of residence, as known in the national register, possibly supplemented by e-mail address and mobile number, as known to the sickness funds. If someone is a care provider, there is also any kind of care provider, possibly with the e-mail address and the mobile number, as known by the RIZIV. The address is of course absolutely reliable, but an e-box can also be used to send an invitation, if the person concerned has activated it. The exchange of data was approved by a discussion by the Information Security Committee, which also accepted the principle of vital importance. The Data Protection Authority and the Council of State have also delivered opinions on the cooperation agreement and proposed several improvements. As soon as the cooperation agreement is finally given the green light, so as soon as that cooperation agreement applies, the invitations can be sent to patients at risk. We expect that can happen from April 2nd. We have to deal with vaccination obligations very carefully. To impose obligations can nourish resistance to vaccines rather than achieve anything else. It is a pity that some staff in health care institutions do not reap the benefits of vaccination. Of course, we have to inform people very well, but that is what is happening. 70% of our population is still to be vaccinated. At the same time, it is also logical that we should take action against disinformation. For example, a complaint has already been made by doctors to the Order of Doctors against the so-called Doctors for Freedom, because they distribute false information in their name and have a negative impact on vaccination readiness. We assume that will be dealt with. The Task Force Vaccination has issued an opinion on vaccinations in open and closed asylum centres and prisons. We'll discuss that further at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. Funding for the health care of prisoners in penitentiary institutions is the responsibility of the FPS Justice. In recent years, a number of preliminary studies have been carried out to improve the situation. At the end of 2019, following in particular the KCE study on the financing of care in prisons, a vision note was developed on a reform of prison health care, and approved by a steering committee bringing together all relevant ministers and government departments. As the recommendations of this vision note have not yet been implemented, it is not my responsibility now to introduce an incentive allowance for staff caring for correctional institutions. I would like to refer you to my colleague, Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne, the Minister of Justice. There were also some questions about international cooperation. With regard to the vaccines that are already under negotiation in the framework of the European common procurement procedure, Mr Novavax and Mr Valneva, as well as for other vaccines, including Mr Sputnik V, I would like to follow the same line, namely that we should act together in Europe and not organise separate negotiations. We have 27 Member States which are far stronger than they are alone. Of course, we must learn from what has happened so far in Europe, but one thing is certain: we will not be stronger with individual companies when we, as a small country, try to act individually. So that's not what we're gonna do. I would also like to reiterate that under the current common procurement programmes all countries must be treated equally. The European Commission has consistently stressed this principle and we remain critical of ensuring that this commitment is consistently respected. It is, of course, true that it has already been mentioned that some Member States have asked for less than their pro rata share in the distribution of some vaccines and the part released has been divided between those Member States which have applied for an additional share on top of their pro rata share. We have not generally done so, but in principle we are not disadvantaged at the moment. As far as the Netherlands and Belgium are concerned, I currently see a marginal difference of 0.2 percent in deliveries. I think this tiny difference is due to differences in liver moments. The difference with Denmark was also asked. Denmark usually leaves six weeks between the first and second shots. From the beginning that has made for a faster rhythm in the first prick. They also have a very centralised healthcare system, which, of course, has promoted the speed of action. We have strictly adhered to the short-term between the first and the second dose and we also have a much more decentralised system. This naturally makes sense and partly explains the difference between our country and Denmark. Because we believe in the European approach, we are also actively pulling the cart to make the HERA Incubator a success. I attach great importance to the HERA initiative, as an agency for biomedically advanced research and development, and to support response capacity and preparedness in our common fight against threats to public health that are cross-border. We therefore also support our country's very active participation in the early establishment of the Vaccelerate Clinical Trials Network. In order to increase vaccine production capacity in Europe, it is also very important that we provide the right support for producers established in Europe. Then I come to the questions about the vaccinations of the care staff. The Members concerned have not asked the questions, so I do not have to go into them. Mrs. Gijbels, you had a question about the software for vaccinations. The invitation to tender for the software used in the vaccinations is written by Smalls. On 11 January 2021, the special specifications were sent to nine companies. The Task Force Vaccination, the federated entities and the eHealth platform have identified functional needs. Smalls placed the government contract on their request. No remuneration is provided for that placement. The award criteria applied were: administrative and commercial conditions of 10%, the degree of agreement with the requirements of 35%, the time limit for introduction and availability of the solution for 25% and the price for 30%. On 18 January, three companies submitted a tender, namely Doclr van Paronella, Doctena and MTC of medics. Decisions were taken on 20 January. The contract was awarded to Paronella. The evaluation of the offers showed that this company had the best offer, technically, together with one of the other two companies and the best price of the three companies. In order to maximise competition despite the urgency, more than three companies have been registered, nine in total, on the basis of the input of all parties to the federated entities. They all had experience with software for reservation systems and they were able to develop the requested solution. In a procedure without publication, there are normally no selection criteria for undertakings which would require the exclusion of a self-chosen and registered undertaking submitting a tender for reasons outside the tender itself. The website of the reservation application contains a detailed privacy policy. A first version of a data protection impact assessment has been developed. Should this be required under the General Data Protection Regulation, the GBA will be consulted. Mrs Farih had questions about the waiting lists. That is the competence of the Communities, but we are working together, so I can say something about it. People who receive an invitation with a prebooking can already advance an appointment via the reservation tool, if there are still free places. In addition, a last-minute booking solution is being developed on behalf of the regions. In the same context, it is also examined whether solutions can also be found for the vaccination of the companion of someone who was invited or for persons who would like to be invited in a group of up to four people. These opportunities will be available to all regions which will then be able to decide whether or not to make use of them. It is mainly a question of ensuring that no dose is lost and that there is a great deal of flexibility in the centres. Those proposed solutions are not going to allow us to jump ahead. One can only place himself on a waiting list, according to the stage of the vaccination strategy. Then there were questions about the duration of the effects of the vaccines. The LINK-VACC project runs within Sciensano. One of the objectives of the project is to monitor the efficacy of the vaccines. This is done by linking data from Vaccinenet(plus) to data from the COOVID-19 test database. A test negative study design will allow the effectiveness of the different vaccines to be determined at different time points after vaccination. In addition, in several vaccination follow-up studies within Sciensano, including residents and employees of the rest homes, cancer and kidney patients and pregnant and breast-feeding women, antibodies are followed over a longer period of time. In this way, the disappearance of antibodies after vaccination can be considered. This is also followed up internationally in many studies. Clinical studies are also continuing for a certain period of time. However, it is not yet clear what the immunity situation of the population will be at the end of 2021 and to what extent the virus will still circulate. Elements include the impact of the vaccines on the infection of the virus, the effectiveness of the vaccine on variants and the duration of immunity. There have been a few questions asked here about variants. Reference has been made to the Breton variant, but I must honestly admit that I have not given away any of this before the fist for the moment. I hope you understand. However, when it comes to variants, it is quite conceivable that a boost injection or vaccination with a new vaccine will prove necessary. Another element is the stocks that our country will still have after the end of the vaccination campaign in 2021. I think it is perfectly logical that we should continue European cooperation with possible points of improvement. At national level, it was agreed that a possible continuation of covid vaccination would be included in the Community vaccination programmes. There was a question about data from an article from the British Medical Journal. The data to which reference is made are actually incorrect. All of Pfizer BioNTech covid vaccines that have been released for use have been tested according to the same strict quality standards. The FAGG fully follows the opinion and decisions taken by the EEA for the vaccine. There is no reason to doubt the quality of Pfizer BioNTech vaccines. In the case of biological medicinal products, including many vaccines, there may sometimes be very small differences between the product used in clinical trials and the commercial product. However, these differences should be limited and no impact on the safety and efficacy of the product should be demonstrated. This is one of the elements that is always very accurately evaluated by the EEA when approving a medicinal product. I would also like to stress that every newly produced lot of a vaccine undergoes a whole series of quality tests, including the identity, activity, integrity and purity of the active ingredient. The minimum standards for all these quality parameters shall be evaluated in detail in the application for market authorisation of the vaccine dossier and then laid down. It is also important to mention that these quality tests are not only carried out by the company but also by an independent public laboratory within the EU. For Belgium, Sciensano carries out these additional control tests. This guarantees that any fate for all these parameters must be within a certain interval. Consequently, it is not possible to release a vaccine lock that does not comply with the established and approved standards for all quality parameters ensuring the safety and efficacy of the vaccine. Specifically for Pfizer-BioNtech, this means that the minimum amount of intact mRNA to ensure the safety and efficacy of the vaccine is determined by EEA when approving the dossier. All tickets released for use comply with the minimum limit for quantity of intact mRNA. There is therefore absolutely no difference in the quality of this vaccine. Mrs Depoorter, I would like to say once again that, as a strategy, we set out in the Inter-Ministerial Conference that at least 70% of the population should be vaccinated. It has been clearly agreed that 80% of the costs of the entire campaign will be borne by the federal government and 20% by the Communities. There are clearing arrangements that are still under discussion, and of course it is very important from our federal point of view, since we finance 80%, that the Communities ensure that these vaccines are given to the priority groups as quickly and efficiently as possible. As far as material is concerned, it is true that the federal government has purchased so-called zero-dead volume syringes. It's about a purchase of 10 million pieces, with an option on another 5 million pieces. The syringes will be delivered in the coming weeks, of which 4 million will still be delivered in March and 6 million will be delivered by the end of April at the latest. It is not yet clear what the firm Pfizer will do. In theory, she can have the package leaflet adjusted, as she did last time. This will require sufficient supporting documentation. We have not been informed by the pharmaceutical companies in charge of the production of vaccines of a possible problem of raw materials which could endanger the delivery of the latter. At this stage, the potential proactive actions to be implemented are the responsibility of the pharmaceutical companies in charge of vaccine production. Mrs Jiroflée, you had a question about the so-called vaccination passport. 'Paspoort' is a peculiar description, because we move in Europe without a passport. This is a certificate confirming that the holder has received a COVID-19 vaccine in the Member State concerned, the vaccination certificate, a certificate of valid negative COVID-19 test results, the test certificate, or a certificate of recovery confirming that the holder has successfully recovered from a SARS-CoV-2 infection and is therefore unlikely to be contagious to others. The idea is therefore not a European vaccination obligation, but a package of three certificates. We believe that this should be developed at European level. We agree with the idea of a certificate, but it is still under discussion. Many countries have questions about a European regulation, because they are concerned about possible discrimination that would occur with such a certificate. That is, of course, an important part of the debate. It could be said that there are ethical aspects to this. How will this instrument take account of scientific developments that we do not yet know, for example developments in the field of testing? What if certain tests are to be regarded as accessive and other tests are not? There are still many questions, but the idea of a European approach to such certificates is useful. However, this does not say anything about what is being done with it, with regard to access policies to other countries or certain activities. I'm here to test it. We are indeed reviewing our test strategy. It is a misunderstanding that we would not begin rapid tests until May and the possibility of self-testing. That's not the idea. The idea is that we will try to make more use of available rapid tests as soon as possible, so fast antigen tests. In the context of companies that are not able to use telework, this can be extremely useful for repetitive preventive screening of personnel in specific companies. There are also other environments in which quick tests are useful. Tests on saliva samples are also a promising track that is already being tested in education, both in French-speaking Belgium and in Dutch-speaking Belgium. We believe that this can be further rolled out, but according to the results of that experiment. At some point, the possibility of people testing themselves on the basis of rapid antigen tests can be really interesting. It may be interesting to sensitize the population for a careful handling of themselves and others by regularly testing themselves when one comes into contact. In case of a positive test result, the general practitioner must of course be informed. We're all about to do this. This means easing the regulatory framework, thus allowing for more outlets of rapid antigen tests, less administrative burden when, for example, a company wants to set up preventive screening for its staff with rapid antigen tests, obviously also the question of how to increase and be available and the question of who can take these tests. If you want to do this flexibly and widely, there is also a need for test environments in addition to the self-tests where tests are conducted by competent people. Then we must be able to appeal to a broad group of people for that. That's what we're working on. We will discuss this in the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health and, no doubt, in future consultation committees. That's gonna be very important. Excuse me for the generality of my answer, but I would like to start by stressing that we are not waiting until May to start things up. What we can start earlier, we'll start sooner. We will certainly not wait until the month of May for some relaxations in the regulatory framework, such as who can take the tests and where the tests can be bought. For example, we want to encourage our companies, or at least the companies and also public services where telework is impossible or with high-risk environments, to systematically use rapid antigen tests. Mrs Gijbels, you asked a question about telemonitoring. The telemonitoring agreement for covid patients was approved by the Insurance Committee at the end of December. In January and February, agreements have already been concluded with 11 hospitals or groups of healthcare providers who will be responsible for the organisation of projects in their region. These are both hospitals and first-line organisations responsible, inter alia, for the organisation of telemonitoring teams, the logistical aspects and the cooperation between the various healthcare providers concerned. The participating organisations provide a monthly overview of the number of patients enrolled, but no overview has yet been received. Patients may be included to avoid hospitalisation or to keep it as short as possible so that they can be followed at home and hospital beds remain free. To enable monitoring via telemonitoring by a professional medical team, measurement equipment and a secure electronic platform are needed, where teams collect all patient data. Certain data can be collected and sent to the platform automatically, other data the patient enters via digital applications. If the patient or the caregivers are unable to introduce it themselves, home nurses can support them. In case of deterioration or abnormal values, the telemonitoring team shall contact the patient to monitor the situation and to inform and, if possible, reassure the patient. In case of significant new symptoms, deterioration of the situation or when a new medical assessment is required, the patient or caregiver and the treating physician shall be contacted by the telemonitoring team to adjust medical policy if necessary. This medical team is therefore in contact with the patient, the treating general practitioners, the home nurses and doctors-specialists with expertise in the treatment of COVID-19. Through the agreement, the organizing groups of healthcare providers can obtain a week's benefit per followed-up patient, paying both the care providers responsible for monitoring the data from a distance as well as the technical platforms used, as well as the logistics and administrative services associated with it. The agreement does not provide for a breakdown of these advances for the different costs and care providers. For the care providers concerned, existing benefits in kind can also be used, namely consultation or home visits for doctors, distance advice for doctors, the classic benefits for nurses or the allowances provided for the cohort care for nurses and the classical treatments of physicists. The pilot project ends on 31 December 2021 and will then be evaluated by a research institution under the coordination of the KCE. Furthermore, no mid-term evaluation is planned. A guidance committee may be convened if requested by one of the contracting parties. The problem of lung covid and the remote follow-up of covid patients by physiotherapists is not foreseen within this pilot project. Then I come to the questions about psychic well-being. Mr Rigot has already cited important figures and stressed the importance of this problem. I think Sciensano's numbers are alarming. They show that in December, 22% of Belgians felt depressed. The most alarming figures also concern young people and young adults. I will not quote all the figures, but it is clear that mental health care is a top priority and that, in the years to come, we will need to take more action to avoid as much as possible people being hospitalized or placed in institutions because of mental health problems. Of course, when a person has a real need for temporary psychiatric care and treatment in a hospital, this must remain possible; but this must be done as briefly and intensively as possible, with the aim of bringing that person back to his or her own environment as soon as possible, to provide additional assistance if necessary. In the short term, however, I have just taken a number of steps on the basis of the opinions I have received from the Higher Council for Health and Measurement Assessment Group (MAG). Three important decisions have been taken: low-threshold group sessions at the university and college for students with difficulties; the strengthening of mobile assistance to detect and deal with problems more quickly, especially those of young people; the extension of mobile adult teams to the age of 65, which has not been foreseen so far. First of all, I have strengthened the mobile crisis teams of the SMEA networks by 50%. This increase goes hand in hand with an increase in the operating budget of these networks, up to 75% and an increase in the supervision of the function of psychiatrists in the network. The increase will be up to a quarter. The aim is to strengthen the mobile capacity of networks so that they can respond more effectively to the growing acute situations and crises. This measure allocates an additional budget of €4.7 million to the 11 SMEA networks. I have also increased this mobile support from networks to focus on early, proactive and low-threshold detection and intervention of psychological problems, with a focus on young people aged 16-23, in cooperation with regional and community authorities and in collaboration with various partners in the network. The authorities and networks shall endeavour to achieve this strengthening in the most effective way possible. Under this measure, an additional budget of EUR 3.78 million is allocated to the 11 networks. Finally, I have also strengthened mobile support for adult mental health networks with 20 full-time jobs that will be used in group interventions for students to increase their stress control and autonomy. I am therefore providing an additional financial injection of EUR 1.5 million to these networks for this specific project. Under the first two measures, we are working with a weighted budget allocation to best meet regional and local needs on the basis of scientific factors. I have already said that the competent ministers have concluded a memorandum of understanding on the coordinated approach to strengthening the provision of psychological care in the context of this pandemic at the ICD on 2 December. I'm not going to repeat what I've already said. As a result, there will be a considerable federal investment to strengthen front-line psychological support. We are still negotiating the implementation of this measure or plan for which there is a budget forecast of 112 million euros. I would like to stress that the Consultative Committee of 5 March asked the ministers responsible to submit a plan of action against the Consultative Committee of 26 March, each in terms of its powers, for mental health in our country, starting from the findings we have just made. I would like to say a word about the inspections on essential travel. The social inspection services of the FOD WASO, the RSZ, RSVZ, the RIZIV and the RVA are empowered, on the basis of Article 3a of the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020, to request proof of compliance with the measures imposed by the competent authorities at the workplaces. These include the existence of a properly completed PLF, proof of a negative test result and compliance with quarantine rules. SIOD, in consultation with all the competent social inspection services, has drawn up uniform instructions relating to their control. The procedure was validated by the SIOD, in particular by its strategic committee. The RSZ is responsible for selecting the jobs to be checked. This is done on the basis of the data from the PLF available to the RSZ. The RSZ receives all PLF data about both the foreign labour force and the Belgians who have been abroad for more than 48 hours. For example, the RSZ can detect anomalies and make a selection for targeted controls. If anomalies are detected during a workplace check, the social inspector will inform the employer or the Belgian user and ask him to take the necessary steps to remove the person from the workplace. In serious cases, he may also directly call on the police. At the moment, only essential journeys are allowed. Persons travelling abroad from Belgium must provide a certificate of honour. Competent social inspectors check persons who have recently returned to Belgium and work in Belgium. If these people come to Belgium from a red zone, they must be quarantined and tested twice on days 1 and 7. If the result of the test on day 7 is negative, the person may return to the workplace unless telework is possible. In the case of a check at the workplace, the employer shall be asked whether the worker is present. If the worker is not present, the investigation is over, because the quarantine obligation has been complied with. If the worker is present at the workplace, the data of the PLF and of the certificate will be examined on honour to determine whether the worker may be present at that time. Data entered by the employee on these forms will of course not be disclosed to the employer for privacy reasons. Of course, the social inspection services respect privacy. Mrs Merckx, telework is absolutely essential, for more than one reason: to avoid contamination at work and to avoid too many contacts on the way to and from work, especially in public transport. You asked what the people who can't work telework should do. There is also material for this: there is the Generic Guide to counter the spread of COVID-19, which is very important. Control of teleworking and the correct application of that guide are complementary, but we need to perform much better in these two areas. In this respect, there is a great responsibility on the part of employers and individual workers. We should also be able to count on a much more active use of prevention services to avoid clusters. In fact, this should be a simple economic evidence and the application of repetitive testing in a business context with rapid antigen testing should also be a very clear economic decision for companies. We have indeed recently decided to tighten up controls on telework. Infringements will also be more severely sanctioned by the drafting of pro-justitia's. These controls are of course not isolated: they are always carried out in a broader context, in which there are always checks on compliance with other covid measures, such as social discrimination, hand hygiene, ventilation, etc. Since 11 February 2020, 25,954 employers have been checked for compliance with covid measures at the time the National Crisis Centre statistics have been launched. There were 8,643 employers or 33% of them in violation. These violations have resulted in 6,400 warnings, 239 deadlines for regularisation, 67 discontinuations and 260 projustitia. It concerns both checks carried out by individual inspections and checks carried out in the context of the so-called arrondissemental cells, with at least two social inspections working together. As far as telework is concerned in particular, there have been 13 478 checks on employers since 17 December. Almost 19% were in breach, i.e. 2,523 employers. This led to the drafting of 1,395 warnings, 56 deadlines for regularisation and 44 pro-justitia's. The social inspection services use as broad a spectrum as possible, including the large industry, as part of the COVID-19 controls. They shall take into account the health risk to employed workers when selecting the undertakings to be checked, to the extent that such information is available. However, I cannot now give more details on the number of inspections and infringements by sector. Complaints from citizens relating to breaches of the covid prevention measures submitted to the MEC are also always treated as a priority. From January to 14 March this year, the MEC received 770 complaints concerning the non-compliance with the COOVID-19 measures. Of these complaints, 395 specifically concerned a potential infringement of telework obligations. The number of telework complaints received was highest in January. In February and March the number seemed to decline. As far as the mouth masks are concerned, I now only have very preliminary results from a very thorough analysis of the Avrox mouth masks. As you know, we used the precautionary principle there. The opinion of the Supreme Health Council also only speaks out on these mouth masks. However, the inspection of the Directorate-General for the Environment is now carrying out a control campaign of substances in reusable mouth masks. Among other things, the mouth masks of the non-profit Think Pink will be analyzed in a lab. If one were to make the same findings as in the masks of Avrox, one should of course also apply the same precautionary principle. Whether it is about mouth masks or clothing, the directives are always that textiles should be washed for the first time. Of course, it is absolutely advisable to follow the use guidelines of the mouth masks, for example, that they should be used for up to four hours, that they should be washed after each use and so on. Then I come to the questions about antibodies. Mrs. Sneppe, it's another time. The FAGG is aware of the study on antibodies in the VIB team of Ghent University. Two applications for scientific advice have already been dealt with by the FAGG. There was a meeting with the VIB in May last year and a follow-up meeting in November last year. It is not yet clear when the medicine can be rolled out, as the clinical development of that medicine has only recently begun. Current clinical studies on the treatment of COVID-19 and already proven active treatments are summarised in the Treatment Directive, which is prepared under the guidance of the Belgian Association of Infectiology and Clinical Microbiology. It is available on the website of Sciensano. The document was updated on 9 March and is already ready for version 17. Worldwide, there are several studies with monoclonal antibodies from different companies with convalescent plasma. Other medicines used include dexamethasone, which is now used as standard in the treatment of severe and critically ill COVID-19 patients. Veklury has a conditional marketing authorisation for the treatment of COVID-19 patients who are hospitalised and in need of oxygen. Furthermore, there are numerous other medicinal products under development as treatment, but an assessment of the benefits and risks by the EEA and/or the FAGG still has to determine whether they actually have their place as adequate treatment for COVID-19 patients. With regard to the so-called long covid, I will be advised scientifically. In the short term, I have asked for a working group to be set up, with people from the High Health Council, Sciensano and others, to examine what we know on the basis of evidence from practice, good and effective practice, so that we can begin to draw up practical guidelines. That is actually an intermediate step in anticipation of a very thorough scientific advice, which must come from the Knowledge Centre. It is indeed becoming an important issue. There are no legal criteria for lung transplantation, only international and national guidelines. For covid patients in subacute phase, so still included in an Intensive Care department, ventilated and possibly under artificial heart-lung support, we apply different guidelines than those used in the regular transplant candidate, just because such patients cannot undergo extensive pretransplant studies due to their critical medical situation on Intensive Care. We are therefore seeking a minimum chance of comorbidity with a maximum chance of survival. Therefore, we prefer to transplant younger patients, who better meet the conditions. In addition, these patients must, of course, meet other specific situational criteria resulting from guidelines from the Eurotransplant organ allocation mechanism and, on the other hand, the ISHLT as regards the risk of infection resulting from a through SARS-CoV-2 infection. Finally, in a patient whose life is maintained with a heart-lung machine, the presence of HLA antibodies in the blood should be excluded given the high risk of acute organ failure immediately after lung transplantation. Of course, we also assume that such an urgent procedure is an exceptional procedure, which crosses the path of the regular transplant patient on the waiting list. Each acute lung transplant for a covid patient results in a longer waiting period for a stable patient from the regular course with increased risk of premature death during the waiting period. Transplantation depends on quality donor organs. We note a 20% decrease in the number of donors and lungs in Belgium in 2020, i.e. during the corona pandemic. Mrs Gijbels, you also had a question about zoos. You will have an answer to that. The Risk Assessment Group Covid Animals (RAGCA) has been instructed by the RAG to monitor the development of scientific knowledge, news and new cases worldwide regarding SARS-CoV-2 infections in animals on a daily basis. Cases in animals, including the few cases identified in zoos, are associated with infections by previously infected people. To date, and apart from the famous cat that was infected in the province of Liège in March 2020, no suspicion of contamination of a pet, a wild animal or an animal from the zoo has been reported to the government; this is a subject disease. Recently, the BFSA sent a letter to all zoos, reminding them of the essential measures to reduce the risk of contamination of captive animals. Those measures are intended to protect the animals from potentially infected visitors and their caregivers, in accordance with the recommendations. You will find this on the website of the BFSA. A'massive' vaccination of domestic animals is not relevant in this epidemiological context. A sufficient degree of vaccination of the human population should limit the risk of human transmission to animals and hence to humans. Only occasional vaccinations could be justified in very specific contexts, such as the protection of endangered animals or the avoidance of the emergence of an animal reservoir by the virus. More than the animal, therefore, it is primarily the human being who comes into contact with a susceptible species, who must be vaccinated in advance and take all other additional measures to reduce the risk of transmission. However, the use of vaccines in animals should not affect the vaccination programme in humans. So far my answers to the many questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u30	We've got about an hour before the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u31	Thank you, Minister, all my questions have been answered nicely. I had just asked a question about the staff at the embassies. Would you mind taking that up for a second?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u32	I suggest that the Minister should answer the questions that have not yet been answered afterwards. Members should not be allowed to speak for too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u33	Are there any more up-to-date figures for vaccination readiness than those of December? Can you comment on the positivity ratio and whether real action is being taken if it remains high in certain provinces?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u34	I am surprised that the Minister said he answered all the questions, because I only had one question about the asylum centres. Mr Mahdi specifically referred to you for this. I did not receive any reply to that in your long answer. I hope you'll let me have that soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u35	I also did not get some answers about the export blocking of AstraZeneca vaccines from Italy. I asked if you were aware of the decision, whether you agreed to the decision and whether there have been prior talks with our country, AstraZeneca and the European Commission. I didn't get an answer around the HERA Incubator either. I also did not hear your views on the cooperation between Austria, Denmark and Israel and how you will take action to ensure that more vaccines are sent to our country. We do agree that we have too few. They don't come fast enough to be able to vaccinate at the rate we'd like. The Community's differences are still considerable. I also asked what would happen to possibly a large amount of stock present in the hubs. Could there be a redistribution, of course with the consent of any Community? We need to get the rate of vaccination in. We must therefore use all means to vaccinate the people who wish to be vaccinated as soon as possible. As far as thrombosis and thrombocytopenia are concerned, we really need to investigate which profiles of patients are involved, as you have indicated. We really need to do this thoroughly, also to reassure patients and to ensure that we get that group immunity. The opinions of the FAGG, the task force, I hope that you will leave them in writing, because that is important. Seneffe's inspection report can also be perfectly written. What you are saying about the financial agreements, and what I still do not understand, is that we had that discussion on 16 December. It now appears that it was not until 18 December that the task force discussed the distribution of the vaccines that Mr Beke was entitled to go to the Treasury Inspectorate in January. Secretary of State De Bleeker told me a few weeks ago that she still has no official cost allocation. My question remains how a good housekeeper or mother can register in the budget how much a vaccination strategy will cost if there are no official decisions. How could we have had this discussion on the budget for the purchase of vaccination and the vaccination strategy during the night of 16 to 17 December, if there were no official agreements yet? I think I was right at the time, namely that no money was yet provided for that vaccination campaign. I would like to see that clarified. I have another question about home vaccination. The general practitioners are overwhelmed with questions from patients. It is well-defined who can be vaccinated at home by the general practitioners, but there is a problem with their organisation: how will these vaccines get to the general practitioner? I would ask you to argue that this can be done in a simple way, that either the general practitioners in an official hub in their own village can pick up the vaccines, or that they are delivered to the general practitioner, so that they do not lose an hour per day by collecting the vaccines. As far as the Think Pink Masks are concerned, do you have any idea at what time we will be able to determine this? As a local driver, it is really important to be able to answer the citizens whether they are okay or not, whether they are safe or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am glad that there is finally a political will to move forward fairly quickly on massive testing. I can only encourage you and urge you to change the legal framework and to think about involving the first line, in particular pharmacists. With regard to vaccination in prisons and in social defence centres, I did not understand your answer. I do not understand where the difficulties lie in moving forward. If you have any additional information, I'm in charge. I also wanted to speak about your response to mental health. I intend to strengthen the resources available to mobile networks and teams. This is obviously very good news as this sector is structurally underfunded. I wanted to say that the best accompaniment for people who suffer from psychological problems, especially young people at present, is to break their distress and make them regain social ties rather than "psychiatrizing" their problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u37	Minister, I think you jumped the paragraph on hackathon and the participation of young people or their representatives in decision-making. You didn't discuss this. More broadly, I am still hungry about the place that young people are given in this pandemic. They show a huge spirit of sacrifice. They lose their jobs and their connections to their networks, their access to the course and I pass it. They're in great psychological difficulty. I had two kids on the phone yesterday. The first one told me that he no longer saw the point of continuing his studies and that if his parents were not there, he would have done a big mistake for a long time. The second, a minor, told me that he was angry and that he had no right to participate in the elections. He can't even choose what happens to him while it strongly impacts him in his life. We really need to do better to accompany our young people, who are drifting, but also better to be accompanied by young people in the decisions that we make and that concern them. It is not a question of opposing or competing generations, but, as has been said, all the elements are there for a major psychological, moral and democratic crisis that will last long after the crisis of the coronavirus. I hear that this is a top priority and I am happy about it, especially for the 16-23 year olds. These are good initiatives. By grace, it takes processes to involve them or their representatives in all decisions that have a lasting impact on their lives. If they're not hung up on the train, they won't be with us when we get to the station.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u38	Mr President, I should like to apologize to my colleague, Hervé Rigot, who was unable to stay until the end of this sitting. Minister, I am pleased to hear that you will be more involved with general practitioners in the vaccination strategy. It is to be hoped that they will be more involved with the arrival in the market of Johnson & Johnson vaccine at our home, which no longer really has a brake. General practitioners could temporarily store some of the vaccine doses to vaccinate their patients. I haven't heard much about communication. It is true that the response of the European Medicines Agency cannot be prejudged. However, communication is important in this crisis. The information received on a daily basis often scares citizens who need clear and consistent communication that will restore confidence in vaccination, which is one of the only solutions today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u39	Thank you for your answer to two of my questions, Minister. I have not yet received an answer to my other questions, but as usual I will re-apply them and bite them in your calves like a little keffer until you answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for the answers I have received, but I would also like to have an answer to my question on self-tests and catering. According to Prime Minister De Croo, we should do a self-test before we can go to a restaurant or a café. How will the self-tests be used in the reopening of the catering industry? You did not answer my question about the transmission of vaccines, but I have received an answer from Professor Ramaekers. As far as control after an essential journey is concerned, you have simply repeated my question. I know what the procedure is like, but my question was about someone who's back in 48 hours after a trip abroad for medical reasons. He doesn't have to tell his employer, does he? However, the social inspection comes to the employer to see whether or not the man is present at work, which makes the whole medical background clear. That can't be the point, can it? Can you clarify that? As far as the vaccination of diplomats and their staff is concerned, it is a small diplomatic riot with the United States Embassy which would like to vaccinate its Belgian staff in the embassy with American vaccines, not Belgian vaccines. Apparently, I couldn't. In all the other embassies in Europe it was possible, but here in Belgium there was a problem. I've read that it's been solved by now. However, I would like to know who imposed that ban. I asked Professor Ramaekers that question yesterday. He didn't know anything. However, he is the head of the vaccination cell. I hope you know about something and can explain how the fork is on the handle. You have explained the proportional distribution of vaccines, but my question was also whether you, together with the Austrian chancellor, will be hard on the table in Europe with the question of transparency. Indeed, the so-called proportional distribution is rather questionable and certainly not transparent. That is precisely why so many questions are being asked about it. Will you, together with the Austrian colleague, ask Europe to communicate more transparently about the distribution? Then there's another question that hasn't been answered, and she's close to my heart. What happens to Easter? There has been a relaxation after my first question. We're allowed to attend a funeral with 50 people now. But on Sundays, we can only get together with 15. I don't know how that's possible. I think that's a very bizarre rule. Faith is a fundamental right, however. I hope that you will see the light by Easter and that there will still be some relaxation in this area. You must not forget that the Christian community has had a year without high days. We didn't or weren't allowed to celebrate. I hope that there will be a slight relaxation and I would like to include the other religions. So I would have liked to have an extra word to explain about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u41	As far as the MR is concerned, Mr Bacquelaine has left us, but Mrs Taquin is still here, I think. Mrs Farih for the CD&V isn't here either. I must also apologize to Mrs Merckx. She had to leave. She would have asked me to listen carefully. In her name, I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive answers on teleworking and control in sectors where teleworking is not possible. For the record, you have stressed the importance of teleworking. Mrs Merckx's question did not question teleworking. It was more concerned with sectors where teleworking is not possible. She has not received an answer to her question as to whether the Pfizer vaccine can be used in all vaccination centres and how the distribution of vaccines between the different vaccination centres takes place. She also did not receive an answer to her question about the patents, but that question was passed on to Mrs Wilmès. I shall now give the floor to Mr De Caluwe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u42	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers to the many questions. Of course, this cannot always be very extensive in this period of time, but I am happy with the answers I have received, especially with regard to the AstraZeneca vaccine. We really shouldn't take any chances. It is good that everything is monitored further and that research is being carried out, but it is also good that we do not immediately follow the panic reactions of different countries. It is important that we continue our vaccination campaign and that we speed up, as a number of colleagues have said. The AstraZeneca vaccine should help us do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u43	Mr President, Minister, I too would like to thank you for your comprehensive presentation. I'll come back to that certificate for a moment. I totally agree with you. That is something that needs to be agreed at European level. It may also be possible to use it in Europe, but I repeat that, as I read it now and as I draw attention from the reports I see on this subject, I am still a little afraid of a certain inequality that will be created if negative tests and vaccinated persons are to be used interchangeably. I hope that it is indeed as you say, namely that there will be different types of certificates, that there will be a very clear and central significance attached to them and that countries will not work separately, which would mean something different in one place than in the other. My concern is that there would be inequality and therefore also a danger to public health. We'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answers. Allow me to reflect back on the evolution of the epidemic first. I note that ministers from the same government are beginning to speak in a different way. I find it lamentable! This does not advance schmilblick in the right direction, nor does it provide citizens with support and confidence in the management of the pandemic! This is the little game we've been watching from this government for months. This is really deplorable! In the case of vaccination, you note, at last, that we are not performing well. It's not from today! You note the considerable differences between the regions. I reiterate my suggestion that you set objectives to be achieved by Region. We have to put pressure on it. Otherwise, we can't do it! In the coming month, we must receive two million doses. With the organization as it is today, we will not be able to inject two million doses. Yet it must be done! We must stop persisting, we must stop summoning people who are asking questions, who do not respond positively to the invitation, or even people who are already vaccinated! Let us switch to the priority categories set and move forward with volunteers and, above all, take account of the evolution of scientific data! It took two months for us to take into account the very clear decision of WHO to space the two doses of Pfizer. We're still with two doses on covid+ patients while obviously, I see it in the field, they have far greater side effects. In addition, a recent study has shown that one dose is sufficient to boost immunity and to provide protection against variants. As far as the participation of general practitioners is concerned, we will not agree. I have a completely different vision than yours in this matter. I won't come back. On the AstraZeneca vaccine, it seems to me that we must wait for the clear and complete analysis of EMA. Is there a causal link between the vaccine and the occurrence or is it a coincidence? I ask you again for the greatest transparency on the situation in Belgium. I also asked you whether our country received lot ABV2856, which is the second batch with a question mark at European level, but you did not answer me. On the other hand, I recommend that you be careful with the number of people who have had covid disease and who have experienced a thromboembolic phenomenon since they are not the same ages or profiles. Be careful with comparisons! As for testing: in May only, Mr. Minister? It's your data. This is the government's official communication on the slides at the press conference of the last Codeco. It has been months since I pleaded for a much more massive test and in places much wider than those you mentioned. Finally, France has already decided on a special protocol for the Breton variant. I hope that the Belgian authorities will address this issue in the light of the questions about detection for this type of variant.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. First of all, regarding our vaccination target, you tell us that 70% of the population remains. Shouldn't this target be increased in view of the virulence and great contagiosity of the different variants? In any case, this is a request from many experts, who refer to a rate of 80-90%. With regard to the variants, you tell us that we do not have any specific data on the Breton variant. I invite you to initiate a real reflection on the role of tests other than PCR, but also on the analysis of wastewater in order to be able to detect and respond to them in time. Moreover, as far as wastewater is concerned, can we not imagine that they are an indicator that would be permanent in the Epidemiologic Bulletin of Sciensano? As far as general practitioners are concerned, you tell us that they are included in some working groups of the Vaccination Task Force. Can you tell us which ones? Why are doctors not simply included in the task force as such? It really feels like they are called to rescue when they are needed for sorting centres or vaccination of people with co-morbidities. As far as general practitioners are concerned, you tell us that you are not opposed to the administration of the vaccine by these doctors, but that, at this stage, this administration is logistically difficult. Does this mean that, in the end, their inclusion in our vaccination strategy will only be possible in April, when we have the Johnson & Johnson vaccine? Of course, this vaccine has less stringent methods of administration, but it has now been a month since we know that Pfizer vaccine, for example, can be stored at temperatures much less cold than originally thought, i.e. between 25 and 15 degrees. As far as quick tests are concerned, you absolutely do not answer my questions. It's simply incomprehensible! When your government is committed to deconfining prospects for May 1 or you are committed to using these tests for Easter holiday camps, and for self-tests, you are putting forward more questions than answers. You are referring to the next Consultation Committee, but if you want to use these tests before May and thus offer real prospects of definity to the sectors that are at a standstill, it is not by reflecting on them at the end of March that we will be able to do so. So I really do not understand this chill when we know that in Germany these tests are sold in supermarkets and deliver quite reliable results to almost 96%. As far as the situation of young people is concerned, I understand that an additional budget has been allocated to the mental health of young people. However, I would like to stress the need, as I have been calling for over the past two months, to set up an interdepartmental conference on young people, to include their representative organizations and child psychiatrists in the development of measures. It is very good to act downstream, on the well-being of young people, but it is just as good to act upstream.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u46	Mr Minister, I give you the floor again. Apparently, a lot of questions have been answered, but some are still open. I'll give you about 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u47	Mr President, I shall look at the answers quickly. A question was asked about the embassy staff. If another government wants to vaccinate the staff of its embassy in Belgium with its own vaccines, for example the Americans with vaccines from the United States or the British with vaccines from the United Kingdom, then those governments can do so at any time. If another country wants to vaccinate additional Belgian staff in its embassy in Belgium not with our vaccines, but with its own vaccines, that is very welcome and does not pose any problem. This is particularly true of the British and Americans, who apparently have plans in this direction. With our vaccines we want our planning to be followed, which I think is quite obvious. A question was asked about asylum centres. I have only said one sentence about this, namely that a proposal is being discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. That is all I can say right now. I was not aware of the restrictions on exports by the Italian Government. Nor does the Italian Government ask for our agreement to do so. However, the European Commission is involved in this procedure. So we are not asked whether or not we agree. A question was asked about cooperation between Austria, Denmark and Israel. The attitude of our government is that we want a European approach. This approach can be improved, there are lessons to be learned from the past few months. That is why we really want to pull the cart through the HERA Incubator. We want to make that a success. It has to do with looking ahead to new variants, including Mrs Gijbel's question. Of course, we are not opposed to countries learning from each other. We would like to learn from the results of the vaccination campaign in Israel. We also want to learn from the way the vaccinations were carried out, as far as we can learn from them, but certainly from the results. The question is also about cooperation between Denmark, Austria and Israel on the production and development of vaccines. However, I do not think that Israel is really being developed or produced. Development and production are mainly carried out on European soil. I don't know what to think about that. As far as Think Pink's mouth masks are concerned, some local authorities have indeed asked Sciensano what it thinks. I don't know if yours did, too, but there are local boards that asked for it. For this reason, Sciensano also intends to conduct a similar investigation on this matter to what it has done with respect to the Avroxmond masks. That takes quite a lot of time: it is a very sophisticated research with an electron microscope. That took a lot of time for Avrox's masks, so I really don't dare tell you when the result will be there. Moreover, it was also a preliminary result with regard to Avrox's mouth masks. So we do not really know yet whether there is a dangerous inhalation of nanoparticles of silver. We work in stages, but in this respect we have used the precautionary principle by not dividing up the Avroxmond masks anymore, and we ask the pharmacists to do the same. It was asked whether Pfizer is available in all vaccination centres. I have to be careful about that for a number of reasons. Firstly, the last kilometer of the vaccination campaign is actually organized by the Communities, so I cannot really take responsibility for this kind of question. To my knowledge, I say to you that on the basis of anecdotal information, it is not true that, if you look at the whole of Belgium, all the centres offer both Pfizer and AstraZeneca. I do not think that is the case when we look at the whole of Belgium. I think there are centres where only Pfizer or only AstraZeneca is used now. Another thing is that Pfizer and AstraZeneca are, of course, distributed completely equally among the Communities. Mr Creyelman thought that we were delivering more AstraZeneca in some regions and more Pfizer in others, but that is, of course, absolutely out of the question. We don't. Mrs Fonck, your question about the lot was clear, but it is possible that it was not introduced in writing. You should then send us an email, accompanied by a very precise idea of the lot you have in mind. I didn't understand the code you mentioned. So I don't have any information on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u48	Minister, I would ask you to think about a good one-liner that lingers longer than "Stay in your barn."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u49	The oneliner is now "Hurry out."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u50	Thank you. I hope it's picked up properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u51	You can use it. There's no copyright on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u52	Minister, as far as blocking is concerned, I understand that Italy does not have to ask Belgium, but there may be consequences for deliveries to our country. That's gotta be a focus. You say that our country supports the European approach. That worries me a little, because the HERA Incubator has very nice goals, but we will have to become a little more active than in the first round of vaccine purchases. Then we watched, with all the consequences of that. Frans Timmermans himself said that the European purchasing process was not a success and that we are lagging behind. I hope that we will be able to use the platoon for the second generation vaccines. Belgium and Flanders should take up their role as a knowledge region. This can be done under the flag of Europe or under the flag of a number of European states working together to ensure that vaccines can be produced in our regions. An enterprise-friendly organisation can be set up for this purpose. We really need to be at the forefront of that. As far as Think Pink is concerned, if you have any news, can you leave it to the committee? After all, that is important. It wasn't about my city council, but there are still some registered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u53	We'll write that down, but it might take a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. We are talking about a reception network for several tens of thousands of asylum seekers and we also have thousands of illegal immigrants in this country. In the prison population, for example, one criminal out of three is illegal, if those figures are still valid today. There's a lot of staff, too. The question is who will take on the practical organisation and bear the costs. I understand the meeting's still going on. I think that's very late. I will come back to this at another meeting and I hope that you will be able to give me concrete answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u55	Mr President, Mrs H annoyance, who must have left, asks for an apology. As far as I am concerned, I would just like to point out to you that I have still not received any answers to my questions. In any event, I call for broad consultation, including among young people. The latter should be consulted in the context of the measures that are being taken and which concern them. I will therefore continue to follow the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u56	Mr. Secretary, you used "hurry out" as a oneliner. I would also like to use an one-liner, festina spring, because of the three questions that have not yet been answered, you have answered another one. If we hurry slowly, we'll get there. I have a small comment to make on your answer. I did not say that one vaccine is delivered more or less in one region or another. I asked if you could confirm that or not, because I see it left and right. That is a considerable difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u57	If you see anything, you'll tell me it's true.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u58	I didn't see it, I read it. That is exactly what I said in my introduction. I wanted to see that confirmed or not. I also welcome your confirmation that this is not the case, because that would of course have been very upsetting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u59	Minister, I note that you consider my questions less important than the questions you have answered. What you say about the embassy staff is correct. When embassies vaccinate with their own vaccines and Belgian staff vaccinate with their own vaccines, they are welcome. It seems, however, that this was initially a problem. Who vetoed it? Someone must have done that, right? You're falling out of the sky, and I don't understand. The diplomatic riot, it wasn't that serious but still the effort to mention it couldn't just happen without a minister being aware of it. I think it's weird. You say the vaccines are welcome. No other country caused any problems, but Belgium initially did. I did not receive an answer to a series of other questions. I will re-subscribe them, but of course we will not be able to move forward. I would like to ask again what we are doing at Easter, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u60	Minister, about AstraZeneca, as you know, we can table questions until the day before. These elements on the batches...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u61	I don't blame you, but I don't have an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u62	I did not think that, in relation to a topical debate as hot as this one... I, who is a very small Member of Parliament and who does not have access to all the information, still imagine that you have much more than I do, and that I could expect from you a fairly precise debate on the subject. As you know, our speaking time is limited. There are many issues that I would like to address, which I have not been able to address now, but I did so yesterday with Pr. Raemaekers. He said he was going to look at the point. This is the situation of immunocompromised children, either by primitive immunosuppression or by secondary immunosuppression, particularly in the context of immunosuppressive treatments for children who are oncologically treated. As you know, today these children are not vaccinated and a priori cannot be vaccinated given current vaccine data. There is an important, urgent and fundamental possibility of immunizing their parents as a matter of priority. It is a very small number of children; it concerns a very small number of parents. To protect these children who are immunocompromised, immunizing their parents who are part of their bubble would greatly reduce the risk of covid transmission to these children. I talked to Professor about it yesterday. Raemaekers, who told me he was going to look into the matter. But weeks may pass. I would like to insist on these children and families. It's a very small number, but it's a major issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u63	Minister, I still haven't got a quick test answer. I sincerely regret that. We cannot announce, after a Codeco, that we will invest heavily in these tests and that this represents a glimmer of hope for all these sectors, when we see that, finally, they are told that it will take weeks to realize what was a promise. Finally, on a positive note, I hope that on Thursday the European Medicines Agency will be able to confirm the safety of this AstraZeneca vaccine, so that we can continue to administer it safely. But whatever the outcome of this study, you need to put the double bites on communication to reassure the population about this vaccine. As we have said, the challenge is to succeed in this vaccination campaign and to find our freedoms as soon as possible. Even if the results are positive, care must be taken to continue our communication efforts, both with the public and with general practitioners who play a crucial role in the relationship they have with their patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic409x.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to close this session. Thank you all for your contribution. Minister, thank you for the answers you have provided.
