ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u1	Mrs Van Camp, veterinary medicinal products, such as the product to which you refer, are managed by the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products and are therefore the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister for Health. There are also disadvantages to this method. Contraception products are endocrine disruptors and should not be disseminated into the environment. Through the sewage system, they are likely to enter the food chain. I would therefore leave Europe to decide on a scientific basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u2	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I will certainly ask your colleague Vandenbroucke about this. I agree with you that this needs to be properly investigated. In my question I referred to the pigeons and the sterilization grain. Those R12 agents were used and there was no negative effect found down the animal chain. So that is a very good solution. I hope the results will show that this is also the case for rats. Then we could fight them in a much more animal-friendly and efficient way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u3	Madam Minister, the interparliamentary climate resolution, adopted by every relevant parliament in this country, provided for an improvement in governance through, inter alia, the review of the 2002 cooperation agreement. In your own policy paper, you indicated that you wanted to give a strong impetus to the National Climate Commission by improving transparency, efficiency and democratic control of its actions through a strong relationship with parliaments, among others. Based on recent NKC's agenda and decisions, there does not seem to have been much progress in the work of the governance working group. It started with the ambition to draw up and draft a broad report, but in the last report, which dates back to December 2020, everything appears to be limited to the relationship between the NKC and ENOVER alone. This seems to be rather in contrast to the ambition you yourself put forward in your policy paper. From the Chamber we therefore find it useful to know what process is actually going on in order to implement your ambitions and what timing you put in front of them. I have a number of specific questions. Have you already discussed this reform with your counterparts in the regional governments? What form will this reform take? Will there be an effective revision of the 2002 cooperation agreement, as envisaged in the Interparliamentary Climate Resolution? Will you allow the process to proceed within the governance working group in view of the fact that, as the reports show, the process has actually stopped? What other steps would you like to take in this respect? What timing do you intend to use?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u4	Mr Wollants, since the beginning of this year Wallonia has the presidency of the NKC. It is the Walloon Region that now leads the dance. When I was President for a few months last year, the report was indeed discussed in the governance working group. That report contained a number of proposals which go in the direction I would like to see: increased transparency and better cooperation with Parliament. However, it is the Flemish Region, through Minister Demir, that has come to a halt and the reforms at this stage are limited to better cooperation between the NKC and ENOVER. As decisions are taken in consensus, a better and more transparent functioning of the NKC will therefore depend to a large extent on the position of the Flemish Region in the debates. I can only hope that the Walloon President is still making progress, and I will fully support him in this. I have not had any bilateral talks on this subject myself, because it is in the first instance the chairman of the NKC who set up such talks. In view of the urgent need to conclude a new cooperation agreement on the distribution of climate effort and emissions tax revenues, the President is now understandably paying a great deal of attention to this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u5	Madam Secretary, I have to say that you are not taking any initiatives in this area. You say the chairman of the NKC should normally do that. However, the federal government only holds the Presidency every four years. I do not know when the federal government last saw the presidency, but it could take a very long time before that happens again. Compared to what is contained in your policy paper, "Patience" paper does not seem to move too much in practice in this area. So I have to say that this is actually an empty promise, since you have not taken any initiatives to date and you have not even started talking to your counterparts in the regions. If you only look at what the Walloon Region will do for you, that does not seem consistent to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u6	Madam Minister, since the introduction of the market stability mechanism and the announcement of the cancellation mechanism, some study work has been carried out on its effects in the area of the EU ETS. Indeed, the combination of these two mechanisms with a variable emission ceiling is no longer certain since the changes..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The question arises as to when the mechanisms will lead to the waterbed leak being re-solved and how market actors will react to the expected closure of the waterbed leak. In terms of impacts, it is primarily about the possibility for Member States to influence the overall ETS cap, i.e. the ceiling itself, through a specific policy. Secondly, as it becomes more difficult to achieve certain reductions and thus increase CO2 prices, the need for reductions will increase, with the ceiling of cumulative emissions from the cancellation mechanism falling further, which, of course, makes it even more difficult to get them and which pushes prices even higher. Finally, the announcement of long-term emission reductions leads to more cumulative emissions at the end of the journey. All this has been studied by people at EnergyVille, among others. That raises a number of questions. Firstly, how do you view these effects, which have meanwhile been described by many scientists? Secondly, do you think that an adjustment is necessary in order to avoid some effects? If that is the case, what proposals do you want to make in European discussions in this area? Thirdly, some scientists, including Professor Perino, suggest that the quantity of allowances would be better linked to the market price of the allowances than to the number of allowances in circulation. What are your views on such a proposal, which would have an impact on some of the unintended effects of the mechanism? Finally, what are the additional challenges of the ETS that need to be addressed in the review exercise that is under way and in which decisions are sought?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u7	Mr Wollants, your question concerns an important and up-to-date issue, the rapidly rising price of emission allowances in the EU ETS. Over the past few days, the price increased to more than 50 euros per tonne of CO2. All emissions from industry, electricity generation and aviation within Europe are covered by the EU ETS. In design, the EU ETS regulates the amount of authorised emissions and the price represents the reduction costs to remain below the emission ceiling. In such an architecture, a decision such as the nuclear exit or the development of renewable energy has no impact on the total amount of emissions. Whether we close all nuclear power stations or leave them open, the permitted emissions remain the same. There can only be an effect on the price in the system. You are aware of the commitment of my colleague, Tinne Van der Straeten, to ensure that, if necessary, this does not affect our bills. Hence the term waterbed. What goes up here goes down somewhere else in the waterbed or vice versa. And such a system is completely counter-intuitive. Neither a nuclear exit nor the addition of renewable energy has a direct impact on authorised emissions, on the climate. Of course, there are effects on the reduction costs. Renewable energy becomes cheaper the more we install it, which will reduce the price to stay below the reduction ceiling ceteris paribus. In principle, the only good thing that can be done in such a system for the climate is to increase the objectives. In other words, by adapting at European level to reduce permitted emissions. It is precisely for this reason that the federal government fully supports and attaches such importance. This European decision avoids billions of tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions between now and 2030, compared to the old target of 40 %. Long before the market stability reserve (MSR) and a possible leak in the waterbed, I have been able to identify on several occasions how the basic architecture of the EU ETS is missing from the societal debate on, for example, the climate impact of the core exit. Indeed, the MSR and the rights cancellation mechanism have changed and made that basic architecture more complex since 2019. That's why we're talking about a leak in the waterbed. Depending on the economic models used and the assumptions, researchers come up with very different and even contradictory results on the extent and importance of that leak. Just so we're clear, we're talking about a leak. This means that authorised emissions fall faster than in the basic functioning of the EU ETS. The rapidly rising price in EU ETS brings attention to a kind of positive feedback, which has been described several times not only by Professor Perino, but also by Belgian researchers, including Kenneth Bruninx of EnergyVille. However, the relationship is different from how you describe it in the question. It is the prospect of future, higher reduction costs that prompts market participants to raise allowances that are now even cheaper than future reduction costs, thereby increasing the surplus on the market and increasing allowances to the MSR, and ultimately being destroyed. Because a higher reduction target goes hand in hand with a higher future reduction cost, this effect may play a major role today. It could lead to a further billion tonnes of extra reduction in the European increase from 40 % to 55 % as a result of the leak in the waterbed, in addition to what policy-makers are aiming at. Keeping the potential positive climate effects of two nuclear power plants open for longer falls into nothing compared to the increase in the reduction targets supported by the federal government. What I describe is only results from studies with specific assumptions about the behaviour of market participants. The European Commission will present its proposals for the reform of the EU ETS in July. This will be accompanied by an impact assessment. We will examine them carefully in order first to establish a federal and then hopefully a national position on the reform of the EU ETS. If we want to weigh in on the negotiations and on the outcome of the reforms, we need to agree between the four entities. Elements from our current federal position will continue to point in this direction. The EU ETS should provide a stable and predictable framework through a robust carbon price signal to stimulate investment and innovation. This can ensure that the climate target is met, but this should not cause carbon leakage. We will continue to need income at Member State level, including in order to offset social impacts. Mr President, the answer was long, but I think it was important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u8	It is certainly important, but we must also pay a little attention to the timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u9	Mr President, Minister, you could have saved a lot of time by not constantly talking about the key issue, because my question does not contain the word 'core'. You thought it was very important to talk constantly about the nuclear trip, but it does not really have much to do with this question. The question is what that system will look like. I have, of course, also read Mr Kenneth Bruninx's study work, and I know what that is about, but you are riding around it in a big arc. There is indeed a leaking waterbed, but there are perverse effects in that system which will make it very difficult for our industry to continue to achieve this in the future. Today, it seems that this will cause the price of CO2 to rise and continue to rise and that it will become increasingly difficult. As a result, the impact on our competitive position is moving in a very different direction. It is also about certain emission reductions that have a reverse effect in the long term. These are indeed described. It is true that these cumulative issues can be increased over the whole period of time, because of the steps currently being taken. I'll read your answer again. If I just skip the passages on the nuclear trip, maybe I'll get to the essence. However, I fear that you have not yet taken a decision in which direction the system should be adjusted and whether it should be adjusted. After all, your cabinet staff are proud to be on Twitter, saying that hopefully we will go to 129 euros per tonne of CO2, without taking into account the impact on the transition and what that means for our local competitiveness. In this respect, I fear that I will have to ask this question a number of times, although it will have to be a lot more detailed in order to get you the answers you really want to answer, without speaking about what you like to talk about, especially the core exit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u10	Madam Minister, at the end of March, in your speech to the OECD, you indicated that the exercise was almost complete, mapping out subsidies for fossil fuels. I understand that in the meantime it has even been completely completed and that it would be reported on this. Of course, it is important for our committee to have this information in order to discuss climate policy and the adjustments that we want to make in this area. I come to my questions. Firstly, can you confirm that that exercise was indeed completed and that the data is publicly available? Secondly, what are the main findings of the investigation? What support is granted to the different types of fossil fuels? Thirdly, will you give priority to phasing out aid to those fuels that have the greatest climate impact per unit of energy? I do not think it would be wise to start with that and then finish the list. Fourthly, what timing do you use to roll out the phase-out? What steps can we expect in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u11	Madam Secretary, the report of the FPS Finance and the FPS Public Health is now ready. I requested it and also received it through the committee secretariat. Thanks for that. This report implements a mission from the National Energy and Climate Plan, based on a European Governance Regulation. In a first phase, you identify existing subsidies for fossil fuels. In concrete terms, direct and indirect subsidies are involved, mostly by tax means. This ensures that this subsidy is not really so transparent. I believe that this is well reflected in the investigation. Numbers have also been given: 11.2 billion through direct grants, 2.1 billion through indirect grants for 2019. I come to my questions. What follow-up path is planned now? Can you explain more about the action plan announced for phasing out these subsidies gradually, taking into account security of supply? What's your timeline for that? In what sense will the social objectives of certain subsidies be taken into account? Can you, in that sense, make the next rather cryptic description more concrete? I quote: 'In its reform, the elimination of the harmful effects on the environment must be reconciled with the achievement of the specific objectives pursued by other means which are not harmful to the environment.' Social remedial measures have been taken. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u12	Mr Wollants, Mr Ravyts, the study on fossil fuel subsidies has indeed been completed. The study can be consulted both on the websites of the FPS Finance and the FPS Public Health to highlight the cooperation of both administrations. Direct subsidies for fossil fuels amount to € 11.2 billion for 2019 or 2.4 % of GDP and are falling. Between 2015 and 2019, they fell from 3.2 % to 2.4 % of GDP, representing a quarter reduction. By far the majority of fossil subsidies relate to excise duties, i.e. EUR 10.5 billion. These include both reduced rates for certain fuels, such as kerosene or fuel oil, or specific rates for the same product depending on its use. Indirect subsidies amount to 0.4% of GDP and the most important item is the tax regime for commercial vehicles. Due to the recent greening of that system, it will no longer be an indirect subsidy for fossil fuels because the entire fleet will have to be emission-free by 2026. However, I hope that we will be able to reduce direct subsidies for fossil fuels even further in this legislative period. Indeed, the tax reform for fossil fuels and the corresponding reduction of fossil subsidies are included in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which was submitted to the European Commission on 30 April 2021. The fourth quarter of 2023 is the deadline for the implementation of that reform. The first objective is to achieve a study in which taxation will be studied in order to make them more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly. That study, launched by the Minister of Finance, should be completed in the first quarter of 2022. In the last quarter of 2023, a proposal for reform in favour of more environmentally friendly taxation is expected, in conjunction with the broader fiscal reform. The funds originally introduced for fossil fuels were intended to support social objectives or competitiveness at some point in time. Some of these objectives are still more than relevant today, especially as regards energy poverty. It is important to consider how these objectives can be supported without encouraging the use of fossil fuels. I hope that the above study will make concrete recommendations in this regard. I would like to await the results of this study before going into compensatory social measures. In the national debate on carbon pricing that my administration organised in 2017 and 2018, a series of ideas and options were already put forward. For example, the transfer of lump sums to households suffering from energy poverty, possibly in the form of energy vouchers, was discussed. A tax reduction or a tax credit for individuals to better isolate their home or switch to an environmentally friendly heating method is also an option. The possibility to differentiate the taxation of electricity, an energy carrier that we wish to promote in the context of the transition, is also an option to study.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u13	Madam Minister, we must wait again for another study before a decision is taken. It is one thing to map this, but linking consequences to it is another matter. However, the question is what direction this will take. For example, the regions are currently working on phasing out fuel oil boilers, while at federal level there appears to still be a subsidy for fuel oil amounting to EUR 2 billion. The question is, therefore, what decisions will be taken at federal level to protect people's purchasing power, but without countering regional decisions. Otherwise, we can get a really weird story. Once again, no choices are being made today, and it is announced that this will be investigated. Everything will then end up in the big bowl of fiscal reform from which Minister Van Peteghem will distill a brew by the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u14	Madam Secretary, that was the answer I expected. It will be a very delicate drink that will come from Van Peteghem's brewery, given the legitimate social concerns. You are limited to a number of ideas such as the tax advantage of electricity, tax credits and the transfer of lump sums. Of course, it is not very concrete because you are bound by that great study by Van Peteghem, which we hope will be able to look into in the first quarter of 2022. By the end of the legislature, when it is really about the marbles, very important decisions will be taken. This debate is therefore being continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u15	Mr President, Minister, the Climate Coalition recently published a new memorandum with its demands for a Belgian Green Deal. You received the Climate Coalition and you then wrote on Twitter: "Message well received." You said that the content would be discussed at the climate tables and at the national conference for a fair transition. Could you explain your reaction to the memorandum? What exactly was the message received? Is that the message that the European climate target should be raised to at least 60% by 2030 or that there should be a binding framework for industry and that industry should pay for its own transition? That the government should take its own initiative? That funding needs to be tailored to the challenges and so public investment needs to be drastically increased? Does that mean that a fair transition must be ensured through taxation, including with a capital tax for the most wealthy? That there can be no climate tax shift before a decent income is created and everyone has access to low-carbon mobility, energy renovations and healthy and affordable quality food, and that you will exclude biofuels based on food and agricultural crops? On what points will you change your policy on the basis of united civil society? Finally, what more can you say about the climate tables and the national conference for a just transition? I've questioned you about that before, but then you stayed rather vague. In what way is the Memorandum of the Climate Coalition included here?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u16	Mrs Daems, I have indeed received the representatives of the Climate Coalition. We had a very constructive conversation and shared our concern for a just transition. You ask me to respond to all their recommendations. Without exceptions, it's about matters that I don't just decide about. In most cases agreement is also needed in the Federal Government's lap, often even between the different governments of our country. This means that I will take the views of the Climate Coalition to colleagues. (...) I reply to the individual issues in this committee. There you can find the answer, for example on the use of food crops in biofuels. I will not repeat all the answers here on the reduction targets, industry, investment, taxation or biofuels. I hope you understand that this is not feasible. I plan the 2030 climate tables for the second half of 2022, because I want to have the first progress report on the federal climate measures. For example, we have a view of what is going well and what can be done better, also with a view to strengthening the NEKP in 2023. The national conference on a just transition will be launched with a kick-off on 6 October, day after the SDG Forum, and will run until spring 2023. The details of this are currently being worked out. I can tell you more about this in a few months' time. The themes will be carefully defined. This will contribute to a clear report that will be delivered to all governments and stakeholders at the end of the process. The Federal Council for Sustainable Development has dealt with the following three issues of the International Labour Organisation: macroeconomic growth policy, industrial and sectoral policies and skills development. I would also like to consider whether we should not include the other nine themes for a fair transition, as determined by the International Labour Organisation. The Memorandum of the Climate Coalition can be seen as a useful contribution to the process.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u17	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. You say that it is impossible to respond to all the issues I have mentioned, but I am interested in your view. It is easy to tweet that you have received the message well, but if I read the Memorandum of the Climate Coalition and compare it with your policy, then I note that you need to change course as a matter of urgency. There's no trend break. The government says she wants to listen to climate science and the Climate Coalition. This means, after all, that the European objectives must be increased and public investment increased drastically. This means that the transition must be fair through progressive taxation and a millionaire tax and that there can be no climate tax shift before everyone has access to low-carbon mobility, energy renovations and healthy, affordable and quality food. This means that you must exclude all biofuels based on food and so on. These are all matters that you have refused to do so far. It will be up to the citizens of this country to enforce a socially just climate policy. Without under pressure, your policy will be mainly business as usual.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u18	Due to the corona crisis, the COP 26 international climate conference was postponed to November this year. That conference will be crucial for the success of the Paris Climate Agreement and the achievement of our climate objectives. Every country, and in our case the EU as a whole, must for the first time re-table its climate targets for 2030 and 2050. There is hope that every country increases its ambitions. With the current engagements, the world is heading towards at least 32°C warming. That is very far away from the 1.5°C maximum warming that we want and need to achieve. It's actually the COP of the last chance. After all, the next ten years are crucial to achieving our climate objectives. In addition to the increase in climate objectives, COP will also discuss a number of other hot issues, such as financial and non-financial support to developing countries, operationalisation of the international carbon market in accordance with Article 6 and resources for the loss-and-damage mechanism. What is Belgium's current position for COP 26, without the input on the subject of all the country's parliaments, which they will certainly give during the Interparliamentary Climate Dialogue? With regard to international climate finance and aid to poor countries, while the federal government agreement speaks of rising and additional climate financing, the government is disappointed in this regard, as it only provides for an increase of 12 million per year in the presentation of its first budget. Belgium's formal commitment ended at the end of last year and accounted for only EUR 50 million per year, while joint civil society has been asking for at least EUR 500 million per year for years. What commitment will Belgium make to this? My next question concerns the operationalisation of Article 6 of the Paris climate agreement. What position does Belgium defend in this regard? The organisation of an international carbon market threatens to spread the soil under the climate agreement. Indeed, in the past, it has suffered from double counting and false emission reductions, creating a perverse financial incentive for Member States not to increase their national climate targets, but to trade additional national reductions in an international carbon market.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u19	Mr Daems, I must point out the timing. You must agree with your employees that the texts fit within the timing, because you do ask a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u20	Mr President, I would like to apologize for one short question about Belgium's position in relation to the damage and loss mechanism, which should provide compensation to poor countries that cannot simply adapt to the consequences of climate change.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u21	Afterwards it is said that the Minister did not answer all the questions, but if one asks questions within the time frame applicable to an interplay, the format of oral questions will be raped.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u22	Mr President, I am afraid I will speak for too long. Mr President, do not hesitate to interrupt me. I will send the entire answer to Mrs Daems. Mrs Daems, I attach great importance to COP26 later this year in Glasgow. Since this COP was postponed last year, we are facing a heavy agenda with many important points in order to achieve the ambitions set out in the Paris Agreement effectively. You touch some of those points in your questions. As far as climate finance is concerned, the Paris Agreement stipulates that developed countries should take the lead in mobilising climate finance resources. These contributions to climate finance should increase over time. The federal government has committed itself to achieving an increasing contribution to climate finance, regardless of the budget of Development Cooperation. Last year it was already decided to mobilise EUR 12 million of additional funds annually in the period 2021-2024. Together with Minister Kitir, I am working on pistes for the further implementation of the coalition agreement, in line with the Paris Agreement. In parallel, we need to discuss a new intra-Belgian cooperation agreement. These talks should be used to raise the Belgian climate finance ambition. The Walloon Region leads these talks at Belgian level within the context of the National Climate Commission. It is still too early for me to assess where these talks will land. In 2009 in Copenhagen, a concrete commitment was made to collectively mobilise USD 100 billion by 2020. It was later decided to maintain this objective until 2025. During COP26, discussions will have to start on the objective item 2025. I expect that this year will provide the basis for constructive discussions on this issue and for a roadmap to collectively formulate an objective by 2025: how will we concreteise it and monitor it over the years? Belgium will contribute constructively to these talks. Article 6 is another important point. It is essential that this article contributes to the ambition of the Paris Agreement and, more specifically, to carbon neutrality. We cannot afford to undermine the environmental integrity of the Paris Agreement. In this respect, Belgium supported the San Jose Principles for High Ambition and Integrity in International Carbon Markets in the margin of COP25 in Madrid. We want these principles to be reflected in the elaboration of Article 6, as well as in strong references to sustainable development and human rights. The San Jose Principles allow you to eliminate some of the risks you mention. To prepare this ambitious text, we actively participate in virtual negotiations for COP 26. We hope to reach an agreement in Glasgow. However, it remains our position that it is better not to conclude an agreement than an agreement that does not meet the ambition. Better no rules than bad rules. With regard to loss and damage, or loss and damage, I would first of all like to stress that the best contribution to avoiding loss and damage is to implement an ambitious climate policy. I also hope that many countries will join the group of countries that announce 26 ambitious targets in the run-up to COP. The countries that have contributed least to climate change are at risk of becoming the biggest victims. They have therefore put the issue of loss and damage on the agenda of the international climate negotiations. The mechanism loss and damage was established at COP 19 in Warsaw in 2014 to improve knowledge and understanding, strengthen dialogue and strengthen actions. The COP 25 also established the Santiago network for loss and damage to provide technical expertise. Concrete examples that are being worked on include insurance mechanisms in early warning systems. The provision for compensation is not currently part of the Warsaw mechanism's mandate. Belgium has been constructive within the EU and within the international context within these discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u23	Madam Secretary, thank you for your report. An increase in the budget for international climate finance of just EUR 12 million has greatly disappointed the North-South organisations, both you and the Vivaldi Government. Raising this budget is not only important from the point of view of international solidarity and shared responsibility, it is also simply necessary to achieve our global objective. The poorer countries need to be helped both financially and in terms of knowledge transfer so that they can decarbonise their economies. If not, we will not achieve the overall objectives. I repeat our demand to the government that the international climate funding budget be drastically increased as a matter of urgency. COP 26 can and must be a turning point. It is the first time that ambitions have been re-evaluated and, hopefully, raised. Funding should also be agreed, including for loss and damage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u24	I have just gone over my speaking time and am well by referring now to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u25	Mrs Daems, consultations between the Belgian entities concerned are still to be held. It is therefore impossible to anticipate a possible Belgian position in the Council. I can assure you that the precautionary principle for Belgium remains one of the most important pillars and that we will respect all existing scientific data for the determination of the Belgian position.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u26	Thank you very much for your brief reply, Madam Secretary. For us, there simply cannot be any possible deregulation of GMOs. That's as ready as a whistle. We believe that the moratorium on the cultivation of GMOs should be extended. In today's capitalism, GMOs are used to exempt the profits of the agro-industry and to maintain a particular business model, nothing more and nothing less. We hear a lot of rhetoric about options for less pesticide and fertilizer use, but in reality we see exactly the opposite: where GMOs are imported, pesticide use increases exactly, while GMOs are not the solution. What we need is a transformation of our food system into agroecology, in which the farmer is at the centre and supported, and certainly not the profits of the agro-industry. I hope you will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u27	Mr President, Minister, a few weeks ago De Tijd reported that speculation with the European emissions trading system ETS is driving the price of electricity bills up the level. The price within the ETS system for 1 tonne of CO2 is currently more than 50 euros, which is a record. On Twitter, you mentioned this as a symbolic moment for the impact of European climate policy and said that you wanted to conclude a new cooperation agreement with the Regions for COP 26 in Glasgow, so that the funds are available for climate investment. Now, however, it appears that the CO2 price is so high as a result of speculation. This speculation will cause the electricity bill to rise. The electricity producers covered by the ETS system will pass on their higher costs to consumers. What do you think of speculation in the European carbon market? Do you think this is a good thing, as you wrote on Twitter? Do you stand by this view? What do you think of the impact of this on the energy bill? Do you think it's okay if this one goes up? You say that the revenues of the ETS system will be used for climate investment, but you also know that most revenue goes to the Regions. The Flemish government returns most of the income to industry. She is even the worst pupil in Europe. In your communication, you're insinuating that you're going to change this. Can you repeat this commitment here now? Do the Regions subscribe to your position and will you ensure that the industry no longer receives money from the ETS revenue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Daems, you put a lot of things in my mouth that I have never said. The reason why I welcome a price of 50 euros per tonne of CO2 is because this goes in the direction of the external damage cost of CO2. For example, in 2017 the well-known economists Joseph Stiglitz and Nicholas Stern released a prize fork of between 50 and 100 euros per tonne in 2030. In a recent scientific publication they reach the top of that fork.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u29	Although the exact cost of damage is difficult to calculate, we know that the more the CO2 price internalises the cost of damage to the polluter, the less damage society suffers. It is therefore a purely ecological and social concern which brings me to that conclusion. However, in the EU ETS, the price of an allowance is not the expression of the cost of damage, but of the cost of reducing the last tonne of greenhouse gases to reach the reduction target. Even if the instrument were not there, for example, if the government were to impose climate solutions on all citizens or businesses, which you often defend in committee, citizens and businesses would still have to bear the costs, because some climate solutions are still relatively more expensive than fossil alternatives. So don't stare blindly at the EU ETS. For example, as long as green hydrogen is more expensive than coal for certain production processes, climate-friendly steel will be more expensive than coal for citizens and businesses. The good thing is that revenues from the EU ETS can be used by Member States to provide the necessary compensation. You rightly refer to the reimbursement of indirect emission costs given by the Flemish government to companies for the CO2 costs charged in the electricity bill. I believe that these costs can be better calculated and lower than what the Flemish authorities are currently paying out, but that is the subject of European State aid rules. Citizen's compensation goes from the index to social rates. I would like to refer to the Energy and Social Affairs Ministers for questions on this, but I would like to point out that, in the case of more healthy competition between electricity suppliers, no CO2 costs are, in principle, charged to renewable energy. If it does, it indicates an unhealthy situation in the electricity market. It is not yet clear whether and what the contribution of speculation is to the rising CO2 price. I suspect that by speculation you mean not the necessary but uncertain assessments of the future associated with any price formation on the market, but you probably mean to disrupt unwanted money gain that risks disrupting the market. Should the latter prove to be present and therefore prices are much higher, lower or more volatile than necessary, this will undoubtedly be taken into account in the reform of the EU ETS, which is about to be implemented in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u30	Madam Secretary, you claim that I put words in your mouth that you have never spoken. On Twitter, however, you mentioned the rise as an important moment for the impact of European policy. That shows how neoliberal and system-blind your vision is. I will come back to this later in my other question about the lawsuit against Shell. However, the ETS is completely failing. The figures show that the system does not work at all in reality. In the third phase of the ETS of 2013-2020, European industry's emissions decreased by 3% over six years. The ETS is therefore totally inefficient. The big polluters also spring from the dance in the system. Only the electricity producers have reduced their emissions. However, this is not due to the ETS but to the technological innovation of, among other things, renewable energy. On the contrary, the high ETS price or, rather, speculation in the ETS will lead to an increase in people's electricity bill. That's really perverse. Can't you see for yourself? A higher ETS price leads to a higher electricity price. In this way, you just undermine the support for more climate action in part of the working class. This support is therefore essential for a social and decisive climate policy. Just because the ETS is totally inefficient and has a social impact, we are asking for it to be abolished and instead for binding standards to be imposed on large companies. I will come back to this in a moment in my question about the ruling of the Dutch court versus Shell.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u31	I am considering introducing a clock system for the committee, including the closure of the micro's, if we do not better monitor the timing. The reply was twice as long as the normal regulatory procedure was prescribed. Mr Raskin, I see you and I know your sense of conciseness.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u32	Mr President, I will be brief indeed. Madam Minister, after much discussion, the government reached an agreement on the greening of company car tax. From 2026, only fully emission-free cars will retain the tax favor regime of 100 % deductibility. Afterwards, that benefit will gradually decrease. I have two questions for you. Firstly, the European Commission has strengthened the emission standards for new motor vehicles of 100 g. CO2 per kilometer driven up to 59 gr. However, this is an average. In other words, fast electrification in Belgium allows car manufacturers to sell less economical cars elsewhere. Do you recognise that this government's measure will contribute little in net terms to reducing CO2 emissions in Europe? Secondly, the greening of company car taxation is unfortunately not accompanied by a more sustainable mobility policy. This government continues to subsidise car use and traffic jams. The great tax advantage makes the company car even more attractive, at the expense of other sustainable modes of transport. How do you feel about this? Does this strike with your view of sustainability?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u33	Mr Raskin, I welcome the government's agreement on the release of commercial vehicles. This is one of the important federal measures in the National Energy and Climate Plan. A good month after my initiative for enhanced federal governance is already an agreement on this. I can only hope that every minister will do his or her homework as quickly as Minister Van Peteghem, because this measure will reduce CO2 emissions by more than 10 million tonnes by 2030. Mr Raskin, your first question is based on a misconception of the European CO2 standards for cars. The regulation regulates the consumption or CO2 emissions of cars, but not the greenhouse gas emissions of the fleet. You will understand that the greenhouse gas emissions of the fleet are the result of three factors, the average CO2 emissions of a car times the number of cars times the number of kilometres travelled. The regulation you are referring to only refers to the first factor. It is precisely because there are so many commercial vehicles in Belgium, one in two cars sold, which travel twice as many kilometres as private cars, that the impact of this decision on Belgian and European greenhouse gas emissions is positive. Those greenhouse gas emissions from the fleet are covered by the non-ETS objectives to be achieved by the Regions. The federal government is helping regional climate ministers to meet the binding targets for our country. In fact, according to the experts of Transport & Environment, it is the most important climate measure taken in our country for the fleet in the last ten years. I am pleased that you acknowledge that the taxation of commercial vehicles in its current form is a subsidy for the use of cars and an indirect subsidy for fuel consumption, as a recent study by Finance and my administration shows. With this decision, we will ensure that it is no longer a subsidy for fossil fuels, because the deductibility of fossil fuel costs will also disappear. However, in order to remove the momentum towards car use, the federal powers provide the mobility budget and the strong investment in rail transport. In addition, it is clear that the pay-cars are part of the labour cost problem that comes on the table during the major fiscal reform. It is through such a reform that the great puzzle can be balanced. I support the Minister of Finance by presenting all the pieces on sustainability and fair transition with high-quality studies from my administrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u34	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Everyone agrees that the greening should be used. The only question is which route to go through. Here we see an arbitrary draft law alongside a European policy that is about averages and will produce relatively little net profit. The other answer is a little weak for a green minister. [[It can only admit that a measure is being taken to subsidise traffic jams and commercial vehicles.]] You yourself say that there are many commercial cars and that they travel more miles than other cars. That's what you're opening the treasury to. I expected something different there. It is not obvious, of course, to reach an agreement within Vivaldi. If you had to make an agreement that also tackles mobility issues and also fills the budgetary gap that will result in the loss of excise duties, you would of course never have reached an agreement. It is a pity that a greening operation that is absolutely necessary remains within Vivaldi.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u35	Madam Minister, on 18 May 2021, the European Parliament approved the Just Transition Fund for EUR 17,5 billion to help regions within the EU that are still heavily dependent on fossil fuels and carbon-intensive industries in the transition to a climate-neutral economy. According to the latest scenario, around 182 million euros would go to Belgium. Last year Belgium submitted an application for technical support for the preparation of the territorial plan required in the JTF context, for an amount of EUR 300,000. The work on the Belgian technical assistance was held in January 2021, in which the European Commission called on Belgium to decide on the geographical coverage within Belgium of the territorial plan and thus of the aid from the JTF. In order to make effective use of the technical assistance allocated, Belgium had to take a decision as soon as possible, because if further delay occurred, Belgium risked losing the funds already allocated. There is also a link with the European ERDF resources and the ESF+. On the one hand, JTF resources can be integrated into a programme supported by the ERDF and the ESF+ and, on the other hand, JTF resources can be strengthened on a voluntary basis with additional funding from the ERDF and the ESF+. The new multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027 also includes a new partnership agreement, which should set out how the structural funds will be distributed between the regions and set out the investment strategies. The Belgian partnership agreement was to be submitted to the European Commission in June, i.e. this month. It is important to integrate the use of resources from the JTF. The decision on geographical coverage should preferably be taken well before June in order to continue with technical support. Complex, ma'am, but in any case typical Belgian. What is the state of implementation of the JTF in the Belgian context and the associated territorial plan? Has there been any political consultation with the Regions on this? What's the timeline?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u36	Mr Ravyts, in the context of the negotiations for the recovery plan, the debate on the geographical coverage of the Just Transition Fund was also held between the Federal Prime Minister and the Prime Ministers of the Regions. It was agreed that only the Walloon Region would designate territories for the grants of the Just Transition Fund, amounting to EUR 166 million at the 2018 prices. The choice has been made on Tournai, Bergen and Charleroi, as recommended by the European Commission. The preparation of the Belgian Territorial Just Transition Plan is entirely in the hands of the Walloon Government. The Walloon Region has not so far involved the federal government in the preparation of its plan, so I am unfortunately unable to provide further information on the state of play. What I can tell you is that the Walloon Region has decided not to use the technical support provided by the European Commission for the preparation of the plan, worth EUR 300 000. Cooperation is still possible. It would be a pity if an exclusive focus in the plan on measures falling within the competence of the Walloon Region were to ensure that measures falling under federal jurisdiction could not be eligible for European aid through the Just Transition Mechanism. I am thinking not only of the 166 million from the Just Transition Fund, but also of the other two pillars of the mechanism. It would be good to examine these possibilities in consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u37	Madam Minister, this was a politically important answer and it is a pity that Mr Wollants is no longer here. It means that last year's fuss in the Flemish government about the intra-Belgian distribution of that Just Transition Fund was only for the gallery. We will, of course, also present this to our colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u38	Madam Secretary, I keep getting questions on the subject. That's why I'm asking this follow-up question. The draft royal decree that the European directive on single-use plastics will be transposed into national law goes beyond the original directive. The criticism is deafening. There is also a great deal of uncertainty about the precise scope of application. That is why the following specific questions are being asked in the field. Firstly, are the packagings which I have listed in my question and which I do not read here covered by the prohibition in the draft royal decree? Secondly, how do you reconcile the wider scope and lack of involvement of sector federations with the commitment in the coalition agreement to ensure the timely transposition of the European directives, but competently and with the necessary consultation, in particular with regard to gold-plating? Thirdly, the draft Royal Decree also aims to transpose Directive 720/2015 on the reduction of the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags. In your view, the directive gives Member States the possibility of banning those carrier bags. However, this is not explicitly stated in the directive. The directive does allow either to levy taxes on carrying bags or to reduce the numbers per inhabitant. What are you basing yourself on in your interpretation of the directive? How do you support the ban in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u39	Mr Raskin, I will give you concrete answers to your specific questions. For single-use cups, a ban is included in the design of KB. Portion packs for one person for, among other things, ketchup and butter may be. Furthermore, the KB prohibits plastic carrier bags, with the exception of very lightweight plastic carrier bags and reusable plastic carrier bags complying with the NBN EN 13429 standard. Pasta beetles are banned in the design of KB. Salad packaging is not prohibited, but a series of single-use food packs containing salads. These are containers such as boxes with or without lid for food intended for immediate consumption on site or to be carried, typically consumed from the container and ready for consumption without further preparation such as baking, cooking or heating, including packages for fast food or other meals ready for immediate consumption, with the exception of beverage containers, plates, sachets and wrappers containing food. With regard to packaging in the supermarkets for one person, such as jars, I refer specifically to my reply just now, concerning the exception in the draft KB for beverage packaging, plates, bags and wrappers containing foodstuffs. The European texts offer the possibility of either reducing consumption or banning certain products. We have opted for a ban, but we have also made sure that we have a longer implementation period so that the sector can adapt. In addition, the required consultation, which is also required by law on the basis of Article 19 of the Law of 21 December 1998 on product standards for the promotion of sustainable patterns of production and consumption and for the protection of the environment, public health and workers, is currently being respected. The sector federations are fully present in the legal consultation of the KB's draft in the Advisory Councils such as the Federal Council for Sustainable Development, the Special Consultative Commission on Consumption and the Central Council for Business. This requirement of the coalition agreement is therefore also respected. The reading of Directive 2015/720 is that Article 1 (2) allows Member States to introduce economic instruments such as trade restrictions such as the ban on plastic carrier bags.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u40	Madam Minister, thank you for your specific answer to my first question. You say that all this has been discussed in close consultation with the sector. I doubt that. Those are not the signals I'm getting, but I don't want to start the discussion here. I must tell you that everyone supports the commitment to prevent or reduce the effects of single-use products on the environment, but the trajectory of this text shows that there is still uncertainty or discussion about a number of elements. In your design of KB you are talking about a ban on plastic drinking cups. The European Directive provides that cups of expanded polystyrene are prohibited, but also that the number of other cups should be reduced. The regions have done the same, in accordance with the guidelines. That discussion continues here. I hope that the dialogue with the sectoral federations can still be improved. It is important that these people are given legal certainty and that they can adapt. A longer period is foreseen, until 2023. That's okay, but that doesn't mean the meeting has to end here. I encourage you to open those lines again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u41	Mr President, I propose to answer at the same time question No 55018703C by Mrs Séverine de Laveleye.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u42	I can only do it with everyone's agreement. That makes sense. So we're going to attach these two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u43	Madam Minister, at the European Council of 24 and 25 May 2021 no agreement was reached on the sharing of climate effort, i.e. the Effort Sharing. We know that the EU's current regulatory framework with the relevant policy instruments is insufficient to meet the new climate objectives on which there was a political agreement in December. As a result, it is necessary to thoroughly review those policy instruments in order to achieve additional CO2 emission reductions. It concerns the so-called Fit For 55 package, which apparently will be presented on the French national holiday, July 14th. One of these policy instruments is the Effort Sharing Regulation. However, no agreement was reached on binding national targets for non-ETS sectors. Fortunately, we have been asking the European Commission for a long time to assess the environmental, economic and social impact for each Member State. And then the principle of cost-efficiency and the basis of calculation of GDP per capita appears. At the same time, there is also concern about the possible social impact of the review of the ETS system, including the expansion of the ETS system, the carbon adjustment mechanism and the carbon pricing aspect, which has already been extensively addressed here today. However, the achievement of climate neutrality by 2050 was reconfirmed. I also put this question to the Prime Minister, Madam Minister, at the debriefing. What is your point of view and response to these discussions and the conclusions? On 23 March 2021, during the round of questions in this committee, you stated that you were working with the input of the federal climate administration to analyse the many aspects, some twelve, of the Fit for 55 package and to make position proposals to the federal government. What position proposals were finally forwarded to the federal government regarding the Fit for 55 package for the revision of the global European climate architecture? I understand, Mr President, that my question is perhaps very far-reaching. However, the Prime Minister could not reply to it during the debriefing, and I understand that too, because that was not the right framework. There is a framework here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u44	Mr President, Minister, on 14 July, the European Commission will present the Fit for 55 package, which includes a number of new and stricter policies to achieve the 2030 climate target. It was almost time. It involves adjustments and more than 10 directives, in particular those relating to the emissions trading scheme and the objectives of the Member States. At the federal level, a position was adopted on the whole Fit for 55 package. We know it wasn't easy. So we can already celebrate this agreement. Minister, I have two questions. What are the primary elements of this position for you? What about the transport sector? We know that emissions from maritime, air and road transport have increased sharply over the past decade. Will there be a break in the trend by 2030? What would be the best way to achieve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u45	Mr President, Mrs de Laveleye, Mr Ravyts, the European Council has not given the European Commission any concrete guidance on the distribution of national objectives or on the extension of carbon pricing. However, there has been a debate on how to achieve the Union's increased climate objective so that the Commission can work with this input. It is now awaiting the Commission's proposals, after which the European Council will re-examine the matter. The importance of the "Fit for 55" package cannot be underestimated. This package will determine not only the ambitious objectives to be achieved in Europe and the way forward, but also, if possible, how to make it a social and economic success. Will our companies still have a place in tomorrow's economy? Are we still going to create well-paying jobs at home? These are also the stakes. The Fit for 55 package can also enable us to further strengthen the virtuous dynamics of international climate policy and ensure that each country and sector do their part. Finish the free reading in relation to a European commitment! In my view, it is fundamental, Madame de Laveleye, to work on a mix of instruments by keeping those that work well and by completing, if necessary. As you know, the federal government fully supports the European reduction target by 55%. Mrs de Laveleye, you said it, indeed, a few weeks ago the federal government established a position on the various elements of the climate and energy framework, as a basis for the discussions between the federal government and the regions. I can share this position with you. The federal government therefore fully supports the European reduction target of 55% by 2030, which must be achieved with real reductions rather than with carbon sinks. The federal government stresses that an optimal policy framework consists of a combination of complementary measures to address all barriers to the deployment of climate-neutral solutions. Firstly, carbon prices and the phasing out of fossil fuel subsidies play an important role in a carbon-effective climate policy. We therefore support the inclusion of the maritime sector in the EU ETS. Carbon price revenues from maritime emissions should contribute to climate-neutral innovation in this sector. In the current non-ETS sectors, in particular transport and buildings, we would like to introduce a sufficiently strong, stable and predictable carbon price through the review of the Energy Taxation Directive. However, if a new separate ETS were to be created, we would advocate maintaining the current scope of the Efficiency Sharing Regulation to ensure a solid basis for strong additional measures in those sectors. As far as buildings are concerned, we believe that the objectives per Member State should be maintained. It is the local and regional authorities that have to take the greatest part of the work to ensure the feasibility of climate solutions for households. It will be impossible for households to make the transition without cycle paths, charging stations or heating systems. We want guarantees for a fair and inclusive system, which removes the social impact before families face a carbon price. At least as important as the carbon price are strong regulatory measures. That is why we are advocating stricter CO2 standards for cars, vans and trucks and a European end date for the sale of cars and vans with internal combustion engines. Similar solid standards and standards should be considered for heating and cooling in the building sector and should be accompanied by additional efforts to improve the affordability of appliances. The EU ETS should provide a stable and predictable framework with a robust carbon price to encourage investment and innovation. The federal government is open to exploring different options to improve our carbon leakage framework without undermining the polluter pays principle. We are open to a proportionate and targeted WTO-compatible carbon border adjustment mechanism; the allocation of free allowances must be done in a more targeted manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u46	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for explaining the starting points for determining the Belgian position on the Fit for 55 package, which will be presented on 14 July. The approach remains rather cautious. It is often said to be open to various scenarios. For me in the whole story, the social concern about affordability is especially important, as is the impact on our industry. After the summer the debate will certainly be stimulated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u47	Minister, thank you for reporting on the different perspectives that are in the government agreement. The moment is crucial and we must not miss it. It seems to me that the different guidelines are clear. It will be interesting, in July, to be able to consider more carefully the issues sector by sector and how we can support them in this transition. Not only should they be given the goals, but they should also be given the way forward. The fact of giving us prospects is reassuring and I will come back to you in July.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u48	Minister, my question is of a more international dimension. A real ecological disaster occurred in the Indian Ocean: a container carrier caught fire and burned for several days. His cargo consisted of millions of pellets of plastic, fuel oil, diesel, nitric acid and other chemicals that ran aground off Colombo, causing a major environmental disaster. Remediation of environmental damage will take several years. Sri Lankan beaches face heavy pollution, probably the worst in their history. The consequences for the seven seas are not yet known. Minister, have you been able to inquire about the fact that an international investigation would have been opened as a result of this fire? Has international assistance been requested to combat pollution? I know our country has a serious know-how on this kind of situation. Finally, is this type of fire in large vessels common? Would you have the figures for the last five years?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u49	Mrs Jadin, matters concerning international maritime accidents are primarily the responsibility of my colleague Minister Van Quickenborne, although other ministers may be involved, such as the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Development Cooperation, etc. For example, DG Navigation of the SPF Mobility and Transport, within the framework of the 1990 International Convention on Oil Pollution Preparedness, Control and Cooperation, prepared by the International Maritime Organization (IMO), is involved in international investigations and in the monitoring of maritime accidents, including pollution issues caused by such accidents. Where appropriate, the various competent national services, such as the Marine Environment Service, the North Sea Mathematical Model Management Unit and DG Navigation, will work together to follow up on international requests. On 2 June, Sri Lanka sent a request for assistance to the European Union, which was relayed to the Member States under the European Civil Protection Mechanism (ECPM), with the aim of assessing the situation and, where appropriate, establishing an assistance mission under European coordination. Sri Lanka's request has two components. The first concerns urgent assistance in the form of expert equipment to combat pollution caused by the MV X-Press Pearl. The second concerns longer-term co-operation for capacity building. The request was analysed by the various national bodies involved in the request. Belgium does not have an anti-pollution assistance module that can be deployed to Sri Lanka as part of B-Fast. However, Belgium is following closely the implementation of the response at European level, in close contact with the European Commission's Emergency Response Coordination Centre and DG ECHO, and will support it within its means if the opportunity arises.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u50	Minister, thank you for all these answers. I hesitated to ask this question to your colleagues in External Relations or Justice. I think I did the right thing to ask the Minister of the Environment, since I received a response that was more than complete and very informative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u51	Madam Minister, this afternoon, in the course of the work, the exploratory report will also be discussed, identifying various transition scenarios aimed at achieving climate neutrality in this country by 2050, which is a good thing. These scenarios have been developed on the basis of a calculation tool to select the levels of ambition of more than 100 levers in all sectors of society. I understand that that report develops five transition scenarios: a reference scenario consisting of business as usual, a behavioral scenario, a technological scenario, a central scenario balancing the technological scenario and the behavioural scenario, and finally a scenario with higher energy demand than in the previous scenarios. In the analysis of these scenarios a number of conclusions have been drawn which do not seem surprising to me. Researchers argue that climate neutrality is technically feasible, but poses a major challenge in all sectors and requires systemic change, both in behaviour and technology. Our group is in favour of this. Madam Minister of Climate, I am pleased that these scenarios will be discussed in this committee this afternoon, but I am looking at you for a further explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u52	Madam Secretary, your administration published this week a study on possible scenarios to achieve carbon neutrality in our country. This study develops different scenarios for achieving carbon neutrality, and a number of important conclusions are drawn. I'll give you two. Firstly, climate neutrality is technically feasible, but it is a major challenge. Secondly, there is a need for substantial additional investment in infrastructure which, interestingly enough, will largely be offset by lower fuel costs. The environmental movement reacts that the scenario for a sustainable Belgium is now on the table in 2050, but calls for a higher gear shift. If we want to stay below the limit of one and a half degrees Celsius worldwide, the historically large polluters, such as our country, must achieve climate neutrality more quickly. For this, the environmental movement puts 2040 forward as its target year. The question that arises now, Madam Minister, is: how will you realise these scenarios? The study describes climate neutrality as a major challenge. But the environmental movement is right when it says that systemic change will be needed, along with massive investment. How will you translate these scenarios into concrete policy? What conclusions and concrete measures do you think we should draw from this study? Finally, what follow-up steps do you plan based on this study? You say that the study can inform not only about strategic policy choices, but that it can mainly feed and democratize the social debate. What do you mean by that? How will you use these results to feed and democratize the debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u53	Minister, on June 1, 2021, the report "Climate Neutrality 2050" was published. This report mentions a series of levers that can be used to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, presented through five main scenarios. I would like to welcome the initiative that led to the completion of this report. While the undertaking of ambitious actions on climate neutrality is now a first-rate necessity, this need must not make us forget that the quality of the principles that support them and the quality of the assessment that underpins them condition the effectiveness and success of these actions. Minister, can we be informed of the follow-up to the measures outlined in the Climate Change section report? The different scenarios developed involve cross-cutting initiatives covering many sectors of activity and many political skills. You stressed that you had taken the initiative to inform and make this report available to all governments and parliaments so that these results could be put to public debate. Can we know if any contacts have been made with your colleagues within the government as well as with representatives of the federated entities on the elements of the report? If so, can we get information about this? Will these elements be discussed in the context of a forthcoming joint consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u54	Mr. President, Minister, a new study by the federal government presents different scenarios for becoming carbon neutral by 2050. There are scenarios based on new technologies, and others based primarily on a change in citizens' behaviour. The scenarios with high energy demand are opposed to those in which alternative energy sources, such as hydrogen, become more important. In all cases, real estate, transport and electricity generation will have to become completely neutral in all scenarios. This is obviously more difficult for industry and agriculture. Emissions in these sectors must be compensated by storing more CO2 in forests or soil or by capturing and storing CO2 from bioenergy. High investment costs are linked to the ambition to become climate neutral. The administration estimates that capital expenditures are expected to be between 12 and 26 per cent higher than today. Madam Minister, you have responded to this report by saying that "the scenarios are so different that there is a lot of room for dialogue and public debate" and that you will give this report to all governments and parliaments. That seems very logical to me. Minister, what is your opinion on this report and the different scenarios described in it? The five scenarios were developed using a tool developed by CLIMACT to vary ambition levels by more than a hundred levers in the emission sectors. However, this tool has limitations. The trajectories of the different parameters and variables are modeled in a simplified way for the 2030 and 2040 horizons, with the report focusing on results by 2050. In addition, given the wide perimeter of the model, some sectors have not been modeled extremely finely. Can you give us more details on these areas? What is the impact on the scenarios? On the site climat.be, it is expected that the technical details of the operation of the tool will be published. When will this information be available? The report refers to several sectoral results. For example, he pointed out that changes in agricultural practices were necessary. In the transport sector, total energy demand can be greatly reduced thanks, inter alia, to a significant shift to public transport. Is there a plan to organise a follow-up of this study in collaboration with the federated entities, which is largely the responsibility of the Regions? Finally, what concrete measures do you intend to take with the government to achieve these objectives or to stimulate certain social developments such as those described in the report?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for raising the interest of this report. On 1 June, together with the administration of the FPS Public Health, I presented a report proposing different transition scenarios aimed at climate neutrality in 2050. It has been mentioned briefly how the different scenarios differ from one another. However, it is important to underline that these proposed scenarios are rather illustrative in nature and certainly not prescriptive, as there are several ways of achieving climate neutrality by 2050. These scenarios are there to start the debate. Anyone who wishes to do so can participate and develop their own scenario, based on the calculation model available on the website of my administration. I hope that ideological positions can be abandoned and that everyone will evaluate in a concrete and objective way the different paths and actions to be taken. The main conclusion of the report is that achieving climate neutrality in Belgium is technically feasible by 2050, although it will be a major challenge in all sectors and will require systemic change in both behaviour and technology. Major investments in infrastructure will be required but their costs will generally be compensated by a reduced fuel bill. The questions – and they are multiple – do indeed suggest the need for a public debate. That is the objective of this report. Mr President, I will not go further into the details of the various illustrative scenarios and the conclusions of the report. I believe that the many results of this work must be able to be discussed in depth in this Parliament. I hope that all politicians will have a concrete interest in the challenge of the transition to climate neutrality, and that all this work will be used in this context for the actions that we must undertake at the federal level. With this in mind, on 20 May I sent a letter to the President of the House and to the chairman of this committee announcing the publication of this work, but also to indicate the availability of my administration to come here to give a detailed presentation of the results of the report, and of my readiness to come to this work and presentation in order to open, from this communication, the democratic debate on the way to achieving neutrality by 2050. I warmly invite you to respond to this request. You will receive all the answers to your technical questions. This will allow us to open the more political debate. Mrs Marghem, you asked me what scenario I prefer. I'm not going to say anything. I think the added value of the report is to show that, depending on the levers we use, we can achieve neutrality. I prefer to play the game of democratic debate to choose the path to be adopted. In any case, I will insist that the debate take place both in this Parliament and in the government. In my view, it is essential that it takes place before fundamental budgetary choices are made. Indeed, depending on the choices we make on the path to be taken, investments will have to be made. It is therefore important that this debate takes place before.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u56	We shall take this request into consideration at the same time when organizing the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, in which you emphasized the conclusion of the discussion we are going to have this afternoon. You have sent a letter to the President of the Chamber. It is very important that you state at the beginning of your reply that you hope that the ideological contradictions will be overcome. I hope so personally, too. I look forward to it very uninhibited. For me, climate neutrality may be technically feasible by 2050. I'm not an expert on the subject. However, I am less sure that this will be possible in a social way. That is the common thread for me through the present legislature, which is addressed in many aspects. However, that is to be expected and open to discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u58	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. From the study come very interesting insights. I would therefore like to thank your administration for the work that has been done in this area. The solutions to tackle the climate crisis exist. The question is why we have not been using them for a long time and why we are in the current situation today. The answer is, of course, because our economic system prevents that. That system is now focused solely on the profits of the big shareholders and not on the economic needs of people and the planet. The climate crisis is a systemic crisis. You call that an ideological position, but I am simply referring to reality. Without systemic changes, we will not be able to save the climate. As long as you refuse to see it, you will not succeed in countering the climate crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u59	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. We have yet to hope for a rapid, productive and positive public parliamentary debate for the planet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u60	Minister, it is very important to debate. Indeed, in such a vast matter, one does not see the interest of taking positions or even writing budget lines without having previously debated them, a fortiori in the team where one is located and which has settled, nevertheless, a few months ago. It is not because it is vast and complicated and because the team has to be involved in this debate that time has to be lost and action has to be taken. To act is to act with concrete measures and that is what we expect. We are more than just a debating Parliament. We are also a Parliament which can take positions, which can support the positions that you yourself will develop, during this debate with your government partners, and which can take concrete action by really developing actions within the framework of this sustainable development and carbon neutrality by 2050, even if it is a horizon that seems very far away. This is the most difficult thing to do. I am testifying to this in my experience, but we must not allow ourselves to take the time of too long a debate. We must be able, and that is what I expect and wish on your part, to come out of concrete measures at certain times. I therefore hope that we will see the colour as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u61	We'll talk about it again this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u62	Madam Secretary, a report by Human Rights Watch accuses the palm oil industry in Indonesia of tribulation, intimidation and environmental pollution. Those accusations aren't new. Over the past few years, several stories have come to light about abuses in palm oil plantations. The Nederlandse Volkskrant recently published allegations against the Belgian-Luxembourg Socfin. That company has had a questionable reputation for a long time. As a result, several banks are already putting an end to their cooperation with Socfin. However, Palm oil has a negative impact not only on human rights, but also on the environment, biodiversity and climate change. Madam Minister, I have a number of specific questions on this subject. How has palm oil imports into Belgium evolved in recent years? How much of this is for biofuel production? How much is for energy, electricity and heating? What initiatives do you intend to take to reduce the impact of palm oil on the climate and the environment? In what way do you want to stimulate the use of sustainable palm oil? In the past, the Belgian Investment Company for Developing Countries financed a palm oil producer in Congo. Is this still the case? Are there any other investments by the Belgian government in the palm oil industry? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u63	Mr Raskin, import and export statistics are the responsibility of the Minister of Economy, including imports of palm oil into Belgium for all uses, for example in food. Inquire from various administrations and institutions that the use of palm oil for the production of heating and electricity is unregistered. I can give you some figures on the share of biofuels. According to the administrative database for the registration of biofuels, the volume of biofuel consumed in Belgium based on palm oil increased significantly compared to 2017. The use of palm oil biodiesel increased more than tenfold in 2020 compared to 2019 to 231 million litres. Of all biodiesel consumed in 2020, 30% is based on palm oil. This means that in order to produce the biodiesel for the Belgian market alone, palm oil plantations with a total area of more than 100,000 football fields are needed. We know from studies that at least half of these palm oil plantations have been planted on land that has been deforested in the recent past. For the import of food products, I work together with the Minister responsible for Development Cooperation on a biofood strategy to make supply chains more sustainable and to fight against imported deforestation. We will also have an ambitious position in the European legislative work that is being carried out. We also work directly with exporting countries, for example through the Amsterdam partnership that we signed and which was published on 11 January. Countries that are members of the Amsterdam Declaration Partnership are committed to helping sustainable agriculture and to counter deforestation, including through chain cooperation. Belgium also participates in the so-called Forest, Agriculture and Commodity Trade Dialogue. In the framework of this cooperation, exporting and consuming countries of agricultural products will enter into dialogue. Countries will jointly identify actions and set up roadmaps in the fight against deforestation and the degradation of land for the production of basic agricultural products. Through international cooperation, I am therefore committed to a broad mix of instruments to promote sustainable production processes, including palm oil. The approach to imported deforestation through avoidable use of palm oil is therefore an important focus for me. I therefore intend, on the basis of the Product Standards Act, to stop allowing biofuels for the transport of palm oil and soya on the Belgian market. To this end, an KB will be published after obtaining the opinions of the various advisory bodies and of the Council of State. I have already explained this in detail in this committee on 11 May. The investment in the company Plantations et Huileries du Congo is the only investment by BIO, the Belgian Investment Company for Developing Countries, in palm oil and we are currently working, together with the other investors, on an exit strategy from this investment. If you would like further details on this, I would like to refer you to the Minister for Development Cooperation and the Minister for Finance for possible other investments by the Belgian government in the palm oil industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u64	Madam Secretary, thank you for the figures. I will listen to your answer again and also to your colleague, Mr Dermagne. I note that you are trying to get a grip on the disastrous consequences that have already been experienced in the palm oil industry through a number of instruments. In any case, we pay a great deal of attention to this dossier. Last legislative term, we were also actively working on it. There is a proposal for a resolution that can quickly be put on the table in committee, in which we will also make concrete recommendations, in the hope of getting broad support for this in order to give you and the government additional guidance on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u65	Minister, the last cooperation agreement on the auctioning of emission allowances concerns the period from 2013 to 2020. This agreement sets out the objectives and the auction revenues allocated according to a specified percentage for this specific period. However, this distribution between the federal and federated entities can no longer be used for the allocation of revenues since January 1, 2021. It is therefore imperative that a new cooperation agreement be able to cover the period 2021-2030. This agreement will have to manage the allocation of auction revenues, but will also have to establish a broader framework for objectives and monitoring their compliance. The aim is to reach an agreement before COP26 in Glasgow in November 2021. A first meeting of the National Climate Commission (NCC) and the ENOVER-CONCERE focus group was scheduled for 21 May. Could you take stock of the work that has been done to reach a cooperation agreement? Are there any difficulties? If so, which ones? Did the meeting of the National Climate Commission and the focus group really take place on 21 May as scheduled? If so, what does it show? What will be the next steps? Has a timetable been established? If so, what are the key dates? Finally, is the objective of an agreement before COP26 sustainable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u66	Dear colleague, the cooperation agreement of 12 February 2018 on the sharing of the Belgian climate and energy objectives, setting, among other things, the revenue allocation key for the auctioning of emission allowances, covers the period 2013-2020. As you point out, the key to the distribution between the federal state and the federated entities, as provided for in this cooperation agreement, cannot be used for the allocation of revenues since 1 January 2021. It is therefore necessary to conclude without delay a new cooperation agreement. The Regions and the Federal State agreed at the meeting of the National Climate Commission on 3 December 2020 under my chairmanship on the objective of concluding a political agreement before the Glasgow COP26 in November 2021. At the meeting of the National Climate Commission on 4 March 2021, under the Walloon Presidency, the latter announced that it would hold bilateral meetings on this subject and report to the next National Climate Commission. The joint CONCERE-CNC meeting scheduled for 21 May, at which the CNC Presidency was to make a communication on the subject, was postponed to 25 June. As regards the next steps, it seems that the Walloon Presidency of the Commission wishes to await the European Commission's proposals for the Fit for 55 legislative package, announced by 14 July, before an active resumption of negotiations. For my part, I remain committed to the objective of reaching political agreement before or, in any case, for COP26. But everything will, of course, depend on the goodwill of all the parties concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u67	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Auctioning is a very important aspect. This is, in fact, about the implementation of the polluter/pays principle. This is an open, transparent, non-discriminatory and harmonised procedure. I hear your explanation of the state of play in the discussions that should lead to a cooperation agreement between the federal government and the federated entities for the allocation of revenues. I also hear that the meeting scheduled for 21 May has been postponed to 25 June. I will therefore allow myself to question you again after that date so that you can share with me the progress made. This agreement will apply during the so-called phase 4, in other words, during the period 2021-2030. In any event, I thank you once again for your answer, knowing that I will try to obtain more information within a few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u68	Madam Secretary, in a historic verdict, a Dutch court obliged oil giant Shell to reduce its CO2 emissions by 45% by 2030 compared to 2019. According to the judge, not only countries, but also companies are directly responsible for keeping climate warming below 1.5 °C. What citizens have long said is that oil companies know that climate change is dangerous and yet they do not take sufficient measures to do something about it. It is precisely for this reason that measures can be imposed on the company. The judgment states that other companies will also have to reduce their CO2 emissions. The judgment thus creates a very important precedent. Multinationals, among other things, may be subject to binding targets, and as far as we are concerned. Madam Minister, I can now make the link to this inefficient ETS, where emissions from European industry have barely decreased in recent years. The numbers don't lie and I presented them earlier this morning. Total emissions from European industry fell by only 3% over six years. So it's clear to me that we're not gonna make it that way. I have the following questions for you. What do you think of the Dutch verdict against Shell? What lessons do you draw from this? Do you agree that companies should be forced to reduce their emissions? If so, how will you ensure this for companies operating in Belgium? If not, how will you ensure that companies take responsibility for tackling the climate crisis? Will you then also actively impose binding targets on companies in Belgium, or will you shift that responsibility to citizens who will have to go back to court if necessary? Finally, what is the status of the ETS reform at European level? What position do you defend at European level? How does the verdict on Shell affect the negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u69	Mrs Daems, as was already mentioned in the reply in plenary, I find it remarkable that the Dutch court is focusing on a reduction target that limits warming to 1.5°C. As we know from the IPCC report on the subject, the damage in the case of a heat-up of 1.5°C is significantly lower than in the case of a 2°C heat-up. To give an example, three times as many people will suffer extreme heat waves at 2°C warming and twice as many plants and animal species will be threatened than at 1.5°C warming. The Dutch court finds that it is not only the responsibility of governments but also of companies to prevent those negative consequences. The European Union has already increased its climate targets by 2°C or more by 2030 to a minimum of 1.5% thanks to the Paris climate agreement and improved scientific knowledge on the impact of global warming. The federal government fully supports this and we hope that the Flemish Region will do the same. For the time being, the Flemish Region maintains a reduction target of 35%, while an oil company already has to do 10 percentage points more from the judge in the Netherlands. The ruling is also a wake-up call for private and public investors who are shareholders in, for example, oil companies. I read in news reports that the lawsuit against Shell also resonates in other major companies, such as ExxonMobil and Chevron. They are forced by their shareholders to make them more sustainable. I note that this is in line with the federal government agreement, in which we are looking, for example, for pension funds and insurers to encourage, among other things, disinvestment in sectors that are harmful to the environment and health, including fossil fuels, and to encourage investment in the energy transition of our economy. As regards the ETS reform, the European Commission will make a proposal on this in July. This is expected to lead to a significant acceleration of emissions reductions, including those of industry. The ETS will go to more than 60% of emissions reduction by 2030, which is not less. The number of companies covered by the falling reduction ceiling will also be increased, possibly including shipping at sea. Free allowances for aviation and sectors protected by a border charge will be reduced. As a federal government, we are working for a strong and stable CO2 price for companies if at the same time there is sufficient supportive policies through innovation, the development of infrastructure for climate neutrality or the creation of government-driven markets for climate-neutral products. I have neither the power nor the will to impose reduction targets on companies per company, but I guarantee that emissions from all companies in Europe will fall together, in line with the target of at least 55% reduction by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u70	Madam Minister, official figures clearly show that the ETS is not working. We talked about the social consequences, such as the increase in electricity bills, before. You didn't really go into that in your answer. However, the ruling of the Dutch court gives you the dreamed reason to pursue binding objectives for companies in Belgium as well. Make use of it, you must not leave it to the citizens and the climate movement to stand up for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u71	Mr. President, Minister, on May 6, the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) released a report, "Global Methane Assessment", which mentions the urgent need for international action to reduce global methane emissions, as well as several measures related to the fossil fuel, waste and agriculture sectors. Minister, in response to a written question about Global Carbon Project's figures, you told me that methane emissions accounted for 6.6% of total emissions in Belgium in 2018. You added that between 1990 and 2018, methane emissions had decreased by 36% and that by 2030, methane emissions are expected to have decreased by 46% from 1990. Is an assessment of the methane emissions currently produced in Belgium available? If so, does it confirm their estimated decrease? Your reply also indicated that about 74% of methane emissions in Belgium were due to the agriculture sector, 12% to the waste sector and 13% to the energy sector. You added that "the relative share of agriculture continues to increase and is expected to account for 75-80% of methane emissions by 2030". Can we be informed of the measures of the Global Methane Assessment and, more specifically, those relating to the agricultural sector? Finally, in your policy note, you mentioned your intention to "follow closely, in collaboration with the Minister of Energy, the revision of EU legislation on the reduction of methane emissions in the energy sector". Can you inform us about this? The European Union – and thus, of course, Belgium – imports a significant share of global methane emissions. Can we be informed of Belgian and European measures in this field?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u72	Mr President, Mr Senesael, I will answer your questions to the extent that we have new information. The most recent figures available are for 2019, only one year after the figures you quote. In 2019, methane emissions were 7.26 Mt CO2 equivalent, corresponding to 6.2% of total emissions in Belgium. They had decreased by 37 per cent compared to 1990. As a result, the decline continued. The measures in the report that relate to the agricultural sector are comprehensive and do not all have the same relevance for us. For example, the main measure is rice cultivation. On the other hand, I can fully subscribe to the changes in behaviour proposed, such as combating food waste and promoting a healthy and more vegetable diet. These levers are also reflected in the recently published study for climate neutrality in Belgium by 2050. In the case of reductions in the so-called non-ETS sectors, however, these levers are almost all part of regional climate and agricultural policy. The European Commission is indeed working on regulations and measures to reduce methane emissions. In the energy sector, the aim is to detect and repair leaks in gas lines more quickly. It should be noted that methane released into the atmosphere is a powerful greenhouse gas. To find out more about the progress of the negotiations on this subject, I would refer you to my colleague, the Minister of Energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u73	Madam Minister, thank you for these points of answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u74	Mr. Chair, Minister, released on April 27, 2021, the Aquatic Pollutants in Oceans and Fisheries report highlights the growing importance of global chemical pollution of waters and oceans, as well as their increasing impact on ecosystems and, as a result, on the marine and aquatic food chain. Among the sources of this pollution, the report mentions the release of endocrine disruptors, industrial releases, mining waste, pesticides, pharmaceuticals and plastics into the aquatic and terrestrial environment. Minister, I have no doubt that you have read this report. Can you give us your return about him? Your policy note shows a strong concern for many of the sources of chemical pollution mentioned in the report. Can we be informed of national and European initiatives undertaken or envisaged in order to reduce their impact on the environment? Can we obtain information on the status of the NAPED plan on endocrine disruptors under development?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u75	Mr Senesael, within the Public Health FPS, the One world vision, One health is adopted. All information, issues relating to chemicals and their impact on health and the environment are welcome and taken into account. They make it possible to highlight the link between "the two healths", if I can say so. Indeed, we have taken a good look at this report. It raises, as you mentioned, the impact of chemical pollution, including endocrine disruptors, amplified by climate change, on the aquatic ecosystem. Pesticides, excess fertilizers, chemical or other waste disposals threaten ocean ecosystems - a problem that we are particularly familiar with in Belgium. Plastics, microplastics and aerosol deposits contribute to major pollution. The report provides an up-to-date summary. It also shows the importance of implementing approaches that complement each other by acting on different levers. The fight against wild waste is, in our view, part of a broader policy of waste reduction and resource efficiency. To do this, in line with the government agreement, I will propose, in consultation with my relevant federal colleagues, a plan on the circular economy. In addition to the action of the Regions, our objective will be to activate federal levers, such as product standardization, taxation, consumer protection, etc. to promote a transition to a circular economy that keeps the materials in circulation in the economic circuit for as long as possible. With regard to pesticides, in particular plant protection products, the National Pesticides Action Plan 2018-2022 (NAPAN) is under way. It constitutes all the coordinates of the pesticide plans in Belgium. NAPAN's 2018-2022 programme consists of 176 actions which aim to reduce the risk of plant protection using plant protection products. Each action has an objective and an indicator of achievement. The programme is a continuation of the programmes which have been committed for more than 20 years by different levels of power in Belgium. The actions also fulfil the European obligations of Directive 2009/128/EC for the sustainable use of pesticides. Meanwhile, the new National Action Plan on Pesticides for the period 2023-2027 is being developed. In early 2022, the draft plan will be presented to the public. In addition, I intend to propose a federal reduction plan for biocidal products very soon. The plan will aim to complement European legislation with measures to ensure greater sustainability of biocidal products. As part of these measures, it will be proposed, in particular, to improve the Belgian registration system "Circuit Restricted" which limits access to biocidal products that are most dangerous to health and the environment to professionals. Communication actions will be planned to promote the use of biocidal products and to raise awareness of alternative techniques. At European level, my administration is very involved and closely follows the discussions on the initiatives of the Action Plan for a Circular Economy and on the strategy for the sustainability of chemicals aimed at zero pollution ambition and a toxic-free environment. Belgium will also support the Commission in its commitment to ensuring that dangerous chemicals banned in the European Union are not produced for export from Europe. The National Action Plan on Endocrine Disruptors addresses your third issue. It is essential to tackle the problem of endocrine disruptors. I can therefore only welcome the great efforts being made to implement a national action plan on endocrine disruptors. I intended to remind you briefly of the history of this action plan, but I refer you to the reading of my answer. The draft National Action Plan on Endocrine Disruptors will be the subject of public consultation in October. Following an assessment of the public's comments, the plan will be adopted at the end of the year so that the measures contained in the plan can be implemented and this plan can start from January 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u76	Minister, thank you very much for the quality of your answer. I have three points that are of particular concern to me. First, I fully subscribe to your ambition to promote this transition to the circular economy. Under the previous legislature, I was the author of the resolution to promote this circular economy as part of a harmonised European strategy. So I think it is to your credit that this ambition is on your agenda. That the National Action Plan against Pesticides (NAPAN) be developed with specific measures for biocides is particularly welcome when this report mentions their importance. I am pleased to hear from you about the National Endocrine Disruptors Action Plan, which will be implemented, with the consultation announced in October, the adoption at the end of the year and implementation at the beginning of 2022. All this bodes well, and I would like to congratulate you in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u77	Mr President, in addition to this question, I also tabled a question on the carbon border adjustment mechanism at the same time, but it seems to have lingered somewhere. Madam Minister, perhaps you did not like me asking another question about carbon tax, but it will be for the next time. This question concerns COP 26 in Glasgow. That COP 26 could not take place last year, but there was a virtual moment, and was postponed to November of this year. That is within less than five months, and I believe that such a summit can only work if the negotiations can take place properly at such a summit, in front of the scenes and behind the scenes. Official delegations, climate organisations, communities, everyone should be able to do their thing there. I am not too concerned about the delegations of the Western world, they will get there. We are in special times, but those people must have been vaccinated. However, I am particularly concerned about the delegations of more vulnerable countries, which are often vulnerable countries in terms of climate. After all, we all know that vaccination in those countries is not going so fast and that access, among other things by patents, is not clear for those countries. What's the alternative? Suppose we don't get that right, then maybe there's a virtual summit again. However, I am asking myself about this, given the time zones and the technology. Is that the best way to do that? I doubt that very much. Madam Minister, if we want to get that right, perhaps it is time to look together with your European colleagues or with your colleagues at the United Nations, the organizer of this COP, at what is possible to ensure that we get those delegations vaccinated and put on that COP. That's kind of the call I'd like to make to you. I was just wondering how you feel about that call.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u78	Mr Verduyckt, the UNFCCC Secretariat strongly emphasises inclusiveness, transparency and solidarity in the context of international climate negotiations. The European Union and Belgium fully support this. It is important that all countries can participate in the conversations and have access to all information. Civil society and communities must also be involved and heard. Much effort is being made to ensure the participation of state and non-state actors, to facilitate the necessary coordination within negotiating groups and to enable substantive discussions. Everyone is making efforts to take into account different time zones and possibly short-term technical challenges. Belgium has also made a financial contribution to setting up the virtual platform. Lessons can be learned at the end of the meetings of the UNFCCC's subsidiary bodies, which are currently under way. At present, however, we are still working on the assumption that the meeting in Glasgow will continue physically. Physical negotiations are a prerequisite for many countries to make effective decisions. I can assure you of my continuous attention to transparent and inclusive conversations. Together with my European colleagues, I will continue to emphasise this and, where necessary, work on concrete solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic505x.u79	I agree with you that inclusiveness is important. For the time being, you will do the preparation virtually and you will learn lessons from it, but you say that you assume that the summit will take place physically. Of course, an assumption isn't enough. If we really want to do that, we have to take action. You say you want to argue this with your colleagues. Do that, take action and find out what's possible. If we don't make those appointments in the next few weeks, I don't think we're gonna get a physical summit in five months with the presence of the whole world. If I see today how much effort it takes to get the supporters to join the European Championship, I think this will be impossible at all. Madam Minister, I hope you will be able to convince your colleagues to take concrete action, because once again, to make good decisions, people are best physically around the table.
