ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u1	I will be brief, because last time we discussed the importance of this line in detail. The Minister then discussed the study of SNCB which was announced for March 2019. He said he'd look at it and then come back to it. If something like that is said, we are happy to accept the invitation. That's why I only have questions about the study. Has that study been completed by now? Did you get a look at that study? As regards the situation in the Netherlands, you promised the last time you would contact your Dutch colleague. Now, in the Netherlands, the government has ended earlier than foreseen and elections are coming. I was wondering how you deal with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u2	Minister, I would like to join my colleagues. I believe that the importance of the cross-border connection has already been mentioned several times by several colleagues. That is why I shall confine myself to my questions. Will you make the cross-border connection Hamont-Weert a priority project? What steps have you already taken to realize the connection Hamont-Weert? What concrete initiatives will you take in collaboration with the Netherlands to realise the connection Hamont-Weert?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u3	Minister, I would like to support the questions put by my fellow Members, but I would like to make it a little broader. In the past, there have been many cross-border train connections that have been promising. For example, I am thinking of Ravels, where I live, where for a very long time there has been a cross-border connection. It's still called The Belly Line. Meanwhile, that has become a beautiful cycling route. Let's keep it that way. However, it is very important to pay attention to cross-border traffic. Here in Parliament we also adopted a resolution on the Ghent-Terneuzen link. As my fellow Members have already pointed out to me, the Hamant-Weert connection is indeed also a connection that we have already talked about on a regular basis. This is the extension of a project that has been going on for a long time. The electrification of the line is almost a fact. It would only be 900 metres on Belgian territory. For the rest, we need to look at our Dutch colleagues. I seem to recall that Rutte III had included this as an ambition in the coalition agreement. In the meantime, they are also waiting for elections. So we need to look at what will happen there. As colleagues have already said, a feasibility study has been carried out by SNCB. I too have a number of questions about this cross-border railway line. Which other cross-border railway lines seem interesting to you to reopen. Will you take steps to that end? What is the status of the SNCB study? Do you have any results? Have you already had contact with your Dutch colleagues? The government has fallen there, but perhaps you have had contact with the deputy of the Dutch province of Limburg, who also attaches great importance to this dossier, with ProRail or with the Dutch Railways.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u4	Mrs. Vindevoghel would like to join us. That is possible, because it is a topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u5	Madam President, Minister, it is indeed a very important issue, on the one hand, because of the need for international rail traffic, on the other hand, because certain regions are totally underwhelmed in the field of public transport. I am thinking of Luxembourg and the Kempen, but I am also thinking of Limburg. Almost the entire east of Limburg has no access to the railway. We therefore absolutely support this cross-border line 19. There are a lot of potential commuters working in the Netherlands. This line is also very interesting for freight transport. Yesterday we discussed Mr Colebunders' proposal to create a rail link between Hasselt and Maastricht via a railway station in Lanaken, which is line 20. A number of parties may think this is a good idea, but they also point to the stakes on line 19. I think that is a bit of a crooked argument, and new investments are needed throughout the east of Limburg, both in the north-east and in the south-east. There must be no contradiction there. There are, however, some problems, such as electrification. The solution was also suggested to work with a hydrogen train. We are in favour of further development. That is a clean and ecological technology. How do you see the future of this project? How do you feel about a hydrogen train like that? How do you think the Dutch government is looking at this railway line? Are they really waiting for the re-use or do you feel hesitations along their side?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, for the file on the Hamont-Weert rail link, it is useful to recall the recent history. In January 2019, the Dutch State Secretary for Infrastructure and Water State wrote to my predecessor. In her letter she indicated that ProRail was currently conducting a cost investigation into electrification of the Weert-Hamont route. She had also commissioned a research firm to carry out a social cost-benefit analysis for this line. In view of the short route, it seemed the most logical choice to ask SNCB to take advantage of this line. That is why she asked my predecessor if he was willing to instruct SNCB to study the possibilities of operating the line and the associated costs. SNCB responded to my predecessor's request and had a study carried out by the Stratec agency to determine the potential of international travellers on this route, to identify the equipment that can be insured by a train service and how many staff are needed to assess the revenues and costs associated with this service. SNCB provided me with this investigation with a letter dated 1 February 2021. My services at the FPS Mobility quickly analyzed that. Let me give you some elements of that. Firstly, on a technical level. The investigation concludes that it is indeed technically possible to extend the connection of the Belgian Hamont to the Dutch Weert. A number of conditions must then be met. Infrastructures are needed on the Dutch side. Furthermore, a diesel connection also requires adjustments. The availability of the necessary material should be reviewed. An approval of the equipment for the border-Weert route is required. Secondly, on a commercial level. The potential for travellers that Stratec estimates is close to 1,000 travelers a day, in both directions together. Stratec's conclusion: the business case for the operation of the connection by SNCB is negative. The intention is to deliver those results to my Dutch colleague. Then we can put them together with the studies carried out in the Netherlands. As you know, the Dutch Government is currently resigning. I had contact with her, but on another subject, namely aircraft and therefore not about Hamont-Weert. In order not to waste any time, I will propose to my Dutch colleague to instruct my administration to bring together the existing steering committee, the Netherlands-Belgium, which will follow cross-border traffic. In this way, the dossier can be examined further, including as regards the possibilities for financing the project. That element too is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the information. It is quite logical that it is technically possible, because the connection is already there today. The conditions do not seem insurmountable to me either, but you say that the potential is mainly a problem, namely 1,000 passengers a day. That doesn't sound like anything to me. Of course, I don't know the criteria. So it would be a good thing if we could take a look at this study. Maybe it has something to do with the choice they make. If one opts for electrification, I can imagine that there are certain costs involved which one does not consider worthwhile in relation to those 1,000 passengers per day. In the Netherlands there is talk of a hydrogen train. In my view, this shows that the Netherlands very much wants this connection. Where there's a will, there's a way. I am pleased that you are continuing your work with your Dutch colleagues. In the meantime, I hope that we can look at this study so that we can form an image of what we think is realistic or not for such a connection. I don't think 1,000 travelers in themselves are the least of them, but I'd like to take a closer look at it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u8	Minister, I agree with Mr Verduyckt. We would like to look into that study. The potential of 1,000 travelers seems to me to be considerable too. For the Kempen and Limburg it would be a huge added value. It is a good thing that you and your colleagues are looking at how this dossier can move forward. We therefore also have the additional question of being able to look into this study.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u9	Mr Minister, I would like to repeat what we said yesterday in committee: investing in public transport means making people less dependent on the car, reducing transport poverty and making mobility less climate-dependent. This includes investments in regions such as the Kempen and Limburg. I'll keep hitting the same nail. Moreover, opening up to the Netherlands is very important for both regions. That is why I am pleased that you want to enter into dialogue with the Netherlands, because that is, in my view, the first step in determining how the Netherlands wants to take part in the dossier. I am also interested in the study of SNCB. A thousand travelers a day, I find not very little at first either. By the way, if there is a dilation to the Eindhoven region, it will certainly be used from there as well. We must therefore certainly consider whether line 19 can be an added value for Limburg and for my own region, the Kempen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u10	Minister, the hybrid form of meetings also has its advantages, because we can follow everything along the way, but that aside. In any case, the study shows that there is potential, but the question is, of course, how generous we will deal with it. How generous will we make progress along with the Netherlands in this respect? It is important that Belgium gives the signal that it sees bread in it and wants to go for it, because that is what the Dutch are waiting for. That is why we have prepared a motion for a resolution, supported by a number of majority parties. We want to give a clear signal that we really see added value in the cross-border connection between Hamont and Weert and that it is feasible under certain technical conditions, for which investment will have to be made, especially in Dutch territory. A thousand passengers a day can be sufficient potential if SNCB can drive electrical equipment there and if one can drive fast enough. These are important conditions that still require some investment. The consultation with your Dutch colleague will therefore be crucial. We look forward to it and hope that you will go for the railway project in question in a voluntaristic manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u11	Minister, the Central Economic Council (CEC) and the National Labour Council (NTC) have recently issued a notice on the price of SNCB train cards, which will take place on 1 February. This opinion refers in particular to the fact that SNCB has decided to increase the prices of the paper version of its various transport documents. The purpose of this decision is to promote the use of digital sales channels and to discourage – and eventually, to eliminate – the purchase of paper transport documents. According to these advices, this measure leads to ease of use and administrative simplification for travellers. For SNCB, this will enable it to better know its customers and thus be able to better meet their expectations. While there are many advantages, the Conseils draw attention to the fact that some people cannot pay online or via the SNCB app because they do not have the necessary digital means and/or because their digital skills are insufficient. The digitisation of transport documents can then become an obstacle to the accessibility of public transport and thus lead to social exclusion. Minister, my questions are as follows. How are people who are unable, for various reasons, to use digital tools taken into account? The Boards suggest that SNCB develop an indicator that measures the extent to which SNCB's sales channels are inclusive and accessible. How does SNCB accept this proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u12	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as of 1 February 2021, ten days ago, SNCB has made price increases of 1.95%, including for commuting subscriptions, on the basis of the punctuality objective achieved, dating from 2012. This rate increase is remarkable, all the more so because it is a full percent higher than the health index, which was 0.95% by 2020. In other words, prices are increased by more than double the indexation. Both the Central Council for Business and the National Labour Council had some reservations about this. I, too, am all the more so because you say in your policy paper and in your statements that you are a great supporter of making the railways more attractive. We are now talking about a clear increase in the price of commuting. How's that rhyme? Has your position changed? Is it no longer your intention to ensure cheap and attractive rail transport? How do you reconcile that price increase with the law of 2 July 1962, which specifically determines the commitment to the employer's contribution to the loss of SNCB following the issue of subscriptions for workers and employees. It is also remarkable that this is justified by the good punctuality figures in 2020. That seems to me to be a distortion of the facts. Of course, these punctuality figures were better by 2020. There was a drastic reduction in the number of travellers at the time. Services may have improved, but the public has hardly noticed. It goes without saying, of course, that if there is a drastic reduction in the number of people entering and leaving the stations, train traffic can be made easier. The reverse is to be feared when normal commuting will resume. Does that seem to you to be an appropriate justification for the price increase? What is the state of play regarding the introduction of a European standard of punctuality? The Court has already adopted a resolution on this subject during the previous legislature, namely document No. 1984. Are you aware of that? Do you support that document? What initiatives have been taken in this respect? Half-time subscriptions are currently not subject to the same price adjustment formula. Is it your intention to align this with the renewal of the public service contract? Will holders of a half-time subscription also receive preferential rates if they apply for a parking ticket at a SNCB car park? As regards the strengthening of multimodality, it is important to encourage combined subscriptions among regional public transport providers, such as De Lijn and the TEC. Will the 80/20 system for students and employees also be extended to the combined subscriptions? Will you also submit the proposal to the Consultative Committee? Do you support the question of the CRB and the NAR?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u13	Mr Vandenbroucke asked for his question to be dealt with later. Hopefully it'll be able to plug in later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u14	Madam President, Minister, SNCB traditionally indexes its rates on 1 February. A standard ticket increased by 0.65 % on average this year, and school and residential subscriptions increased by 1.95 %. A striking choice by SNCB was to leave the prices of the digital version of the Multi-Tickets unchanged, but to increase those of the paper version. That makes sense, given that the administrative costs for paper tickets are higher. Also for travellers crossing the border, the pricing became more logical. For them, a ticket became cheaper. This is a good thing to encourage cross-border travel. However, the ticket prices of SNCB do not always make the same sense. During the previous round of oral questions, the issue was raised where double banknotes are needed for one journey. Also for the bike it does not always make sense. From 1 January 2021, passengers will have to pay again to take their bikes on the train. Because this is a fixed price, it is relatively expensive for those travelling short distances by train. This criticism was also addressed in the annual opinions of the CRB and the NAR. How will SNCB respond to increased bicycle use? Does she intend to adapt the price formulas for bicycles? If so, in what way? Do you believe that, under certain conditions, SNCB should be given more tariff autonomy? How do you intend to incorporate this into the new management agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u15	Mr Minister, I would like to join with the questions on the opinion of the National Labour Council and the Central Council for Business. After all, they came up with a number of elements which I support and which I hope will at least be included in a new management agreement. We still have some ancient principles of this ancient management agreement which no longer correspond to what one might expect from a modern transport company. It is no surprise that I am again asking for these new service contracts to be put into effect quickly. SNCB communicates that the price increase of the tickets is an indexing of prices. In fact, SNCB can do quite autonomously at its prices, according to a rather complicated procedure. The councils also point out that SNCB still does not have a formula for increased homework and that subscriptions for people who do deserve a flexible subscription are limited. The coalition agreement states the principle of greater freedom for SNCB in its tariff policy. Can you clarify how you see this? A number of colleagues have already referred to it, but punctuality is one of the criteria for adjusting prices. Should punctuality also be a criterion in the next service contract? If so, are you in favour of a better measurement of that punctuality, which is measured from the perspective of the traveller? Do you also think that other criteria should be added as a condition for an increase in prices, such as improving accessibility or increasing comfort? What is the status of SNCB in developing more flexible subscriptions for teleworkers or for people with different workshops?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u16	Colleagues, thank you for asking me about such an important issue as the tariff policy of SNCB. The opinion of the Central Economic Council is particularly useful in conducting this debate. I also thank its members for taking the time to put some useful elements on paper and I discovered their relationship with interest. As announced in the government agreement and in the presentation of my policy note, the ambition is to make the train ever more attractive, in particular by simplifying SNCB's tariff policy and making it more attractive. In this regard, I would like to highlight some of the progress that has been made since 1 February, such as the abolition of the additional costs associated with crossing borders. We have just talked about cross-border links and tariff integration in Brussels with regional transport companies. This is also recognised in the opinions of the Central Council for Business and the National Labour Council. A distinction should be made between the new rates and the recommendations relating to the tariff policy of SNCB in general. SNCB, an autonomous public undertaking, decided at the meeting of its Management Board of 27 November 2020 to adjust its rates, as authorised by the 2008 management contract. I would like to transform that outdated management contract into a genuine public service contract for SNCB by 2022. To be precise, today, SNCB's tariff policy is set and evolves according to rules established in 2008. A long time ago, then. I think these rules need to evolve. The opinion stresses that the differentiation of charges between paper and digital tickets will facilitate their use and simplify the administration for passengers. Digital tickets are also cheaper for the company, as I said at a previous committee meeting. The current covid crisis has also accelerated the development of non-cash and online alternatives. However, it is indeed necessary and important to maintain non-digital tickets at an attractive rate. This change will have to be evaluated, including from the point of view of accessibility for all target groups. I will put that issue on the agenda of one of my next discussions with SNCB. So, yes, Mrs. Zanchetta, this is a very important element for me, this accessibility of all audiences to tickets at the best price. I will come back to that, as in the case of the future of the windows. My team and I have carefully read the tariff recommendations for the next public service contract. They will certainly be taken into account in the discussions with SNCB in the context of the preparations for the next public service contract. Some points have already been considered in depth. They could lead to concrete proposals rather quickly. I am thinking, for example, of the combination of train and bicycle, which I have already mentioned. I am also thinking of the development of teleworking and its implications for the subscription. The opinion pointed out that tariff differentiation could further widen the digital divide in the long term. Indeed, a whole range of people cannot pay online or via the SNCB app because they do not have the necessary digital resources or because their digital skills are insufficient. I am very aware of that. I am absolutely convinced that rail must be accessible to all as a public service. Particular attention will be paid to the digital divide when concluding a new management agreement with SNCB, which is also my ambition. In this context, the government agreement provides for a substantial simplification of SNCB's tariff system, but also that more tariff autonomy will be given to SNCB, in so far as this is in line with the administrative agreement. I will make sure that increased tariff autonomy is not at the expense of the most vulnerable groups. I will now answer some of the specific questions that have been asked. Madam President, you asked whether a better measure of punctuality should be included in the next service contract. I would point out that SNCB and Infrabel are currently publishing a measure of punctuality that is weighted by the number of passengers. The indicator applies a change factor depending on the time of day and the destination of the train, which means that, for example, the delay of an overloaded train in rush hour outweighs the delay of a less loaded train in off-peak hours. In addition, SNCB is developing different technological solutions, some of which are currently being tested to bring the measure ever closer to its customers' travel experience. When a specific European standard of punctuality is proposed, my cabinet will study it and make a constructive contribution, in consultation with SNCB. The routes mentioned to take as criteria the accessibility and comfort of trains, are also to be studied seriously. Mrs Buyst, Mr Vandenbroucke, you had questions about the flexibility of subscriptions. SNCB informed me that she is working on a test with flexible numerical tariff formulas. In the course of 2021, SNCB intends to test a portal with a number of companies, allowing employees to edit their subscription and allowing employers to check whether their employees remain within the agreed mobility budget. On the limit of a flat-rate ticket for bicycles, I refer you to the topical debate of the previous committee meeting, on which I announced a train-plus-cycle plan for the summer of 2021 in consultation with SNCB. Mr Roggeman, you had a question about the third-payer system for workers and servants. I am in contact with my administration to prepare the texts that would be necessary for the application of the Law of 27 July 1962 and the Collective Labour Agreement No. 19/9. It has been agreed that SNCB will annually inform the members of the Central Council for Business and the National Labour Council of the planned tariff changes for the following year. In order to take account of these tariff changes, collective agreement No. 19/9 provides that the signatory parties undertake to negotiate every two years the adjustment of the threshold for the flat-rate amounts of the employer's contribution. Without revision of these lump sums, the increases shall be entirely borne by the travellers whose employers have chosen to apply the minimum legal intervention in the price of the train tickets. Finally, it is important to encourage combined subscriptions in order to strengthen multimodality. The 80/20 third-payer system already makes it possible to purchase a combined SNCB/STIB standard subscription today. The possibility of extending that system to a combined subscription SNCB plus TEC and SNCB plus De Lijn will be analysed in the context of ongoing work on the future management contract and compensation mechanism. I will also raise the issue at a future meeting with my colleagues, the Regional Mobility Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u17	Madam President, I do not have a reply because I had a big connection problem and so I did not hear Mr Gilkinet. I'll listen to his answer again, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for the explanation. I have more and more questions about your rail policy. I'm not good anymore. As Ecolo Minister, you want more attractive and cheaper train traffic to get more people on the train, but what do we see in practice? Prices aren't dropping, they're rising. Tariff fixing is indeed the autonomy of SNCB and you rightly refer to the management contract. At the same time, however, I note that this autonomy is much less objectionable to you when it comes to other issues. You are happy to oppose this, even when it comes to issues which are entirely within the autonomy of SNCB. I refer not only to the counters, but also to the history with the free Railpass. That free Railpass for everyone had to come, because the train had to be cheap and even free. That's nice, but what effects do we see in the long term? Rates are rising for the people who effectively need the train to travel to work. I find that striking. As a result, these third-party payment systems are becoming more expensive. This is a de facto increase in labour costs. One of our country's major problems is that labour is too expensive in our country, and that is where additional costs are coming in, which adds to the problem. You say that the price increase must not be at the expense of the weakest in society. That's good, but I didn't hear you say anything about the economic impact, when the Central Business Council mentioned it. You have no answer to that. All these price increases because the punctuality figures for SNCB in 2020 were good, which I find ironic, because in 2020 far fewer passengers took the train because of the corona crisis. That improvement didn't really help the public. As a blow to the flare, that can count. I am a little disappointed in your answer, but I understand that you will amend the law of 1962. I'm curious to see what direction you're going to take with that. I hope that you will also take into account the macroeconomic impact of the pricing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u19	Mr Minister, there is, of course, a lot of work on the table. A great deal will have to be laid down in the public service contract with SNCB, even if these are clear agreements, for example, on accessibility and punctuality. I have questions, however, and I agree with the previous speakers, Mr President, about the link between punctuality and pricing policy. After all, it is based on totally outdated parameters and measurements in a covid year for price increases greater than the increase in the welfare index. That is, of course, anything but social. I cannot reconcile that at all with the aim of making public transport more attractive. It would not be a bad thing for us in committee to have a fundamental debate on price autonomy. Can SNCB determine prices completely autonomously or do we want to retain partial control of them? It may be useful to discuss this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u20	Minister, the pandemic will make the future very different, including working at home. I understand that there will be more flexibility on tickets and tariffs, which is of course important, but the management agreement in particular is very important. There are a number of issues that need to be taken into account in the committee today. I look forward to that management agreement, which we expect soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u21	Mr Minister, paying more for less services gives everyone a slightly harsh feeling. In that respect, therefore, I found the communication of SNCB unfortunate, because the price increase was announced on the same day as the closing of the counters. However, I have heard some good things in your reply. Previous speakers complained that the management agreement mainly takes punctuality as a criterion for price adjustments, but I noted in particular your willingness to include more criteria for pricing in the new management agreement and to examine whether accessibility could be one of them. When it comes to punctuality, for example for the train from Turnhout to Binche, we should have the courage to think about the weighted principle that SNCB is now using. It is true, of course, that the train arrives in Binche on time, but I have to be in Brussels and I often do not get there just in time. We must look at the way in which SNCB weighs those figures. Steps have certainly been taken in the past, but I believe that further steps can be taken. I also hear goodwill in terms of flexible subscriptions for the people working at home. It's exactly that creativity, that innovation I hear supporting you. I hope that SNCB will use it in future in its pricing. I therefore look forward, together with my colleagues, to a management agreement in which we can lay down this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u22	Minister, I would like to stress that I have heard some interesting elements in your reply. For example, the efforts that will be made for flexible subscriptions are positive. They are essential and I have a separate question on the agenda. I also heard the word mobility budget fall and then I automatically focus on the ears. It is a good thing that we are thinking about this. With regard to the combination of trains and bicycles, I believe that we should look at how to deal with them more flexibly. Now you have a fixed price, whether you drive 5 km or 50 km. There must be some differentiation, which can make it more attractive to take the bike with you. For example, a distinction could be made for off-peak hours. I also found it very important that the border tariff should disappear. That has received little attention, but I think this is a very important achievement. It is a good thing that we in the 2021 Europe can say goodbye to things like the border tariff. This can only encourage cross-border rail traffic. Tariff discussions are always difficult and politicians tend to say that it should be as cheap as possible. Attractive public transport should then be as cheap as possible and preferably free of charge. I do not entirely agree, we must strike a good balance, with a fair price for an attractive service. An attractive service must remain the main challenge, then we must ensure that everyone can come along and that people who have a harder time get favor rates. Just saying that it should be as cheap as possible does not mean attractive public transport to me. Attractive public transport must be high quality and provide quality services, and only then can we talk about prices. We must also remember that we are spending a lot of taxpayers' money on this, and we must also take this into account in such discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u23	Minister, I have intervened on several occasions in the debate on this subject. For example, on 1 December 2020, I asked you questions about the price increases, which are a bitter pill for young people, and I am referring in particular to the Youth Holidays tickets, which became up to 20% more expensive. Young people have little income, and certainly not now, during the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u24	I had already intervened in the debate on the taking of bicycles and the fixed rate for them. That too is quite expensive for young people. For this reason, a group of young people has even launched a petition. I therefore hope that by making prices flexible you do not mean that you will increase prices! In my view, there is a third aspect, namely those who do not have access to digital solutions. I asked Unia a question about this two weeks ago, on which Unia sent us a report on the corona problem, in which they put a strong emphasis on the digital divide. Up to 20% of the population is not part of the digital evolution. That is a rather large group, and these people are being punished here again. After all, they have to pay more because of the fact that, for example, they are not able to cope with digital vending machines. I would therefore like to call for this group of people not to pay a higher price for their rail transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u25	This concludes our second topical and urgent debate. I came back just in time and I'm on the train. Thank you, Mrs. Buyst for the replacement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u26	Mr Minister, the successive events of last Thursday to yesterday have caused many questions to be out of date or to be partly answered, but the issue of the points of contact remains very topical. For me, the debate is about far more than those 44 points of contact. This is about how we see the station of the future. What services can rail passengers still expect? I think those expectations are quite diverse and high. A window, manned from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., somewhere in a corner of the station, is not the answer to the service that different types of travelers expect to find in a station. I think there is a need for more service, a more versatile service, than just a window. This can also partly be organised digitally, but human presence remains fundamental. A station only as an empty waiting room is not, in my opinion, a station of the future. Where are we today? There was the original decision of the board of directors. You opposed that. We debated this last Thursday in plenary. There is now a new decision by the Governing Board, in agreement with you, from which we have learned that 44 counters will inevitably close, but with reinforced accompanying measures. We read that it's about consulting with local government. A call will be made for local projects or organisations to use a station. A collaboration with Bpost for the distribution of physical tickets is under consideration. It is also envisaged to give a non-commercial content to the station and to keep the waiting rooms open longer. My main question is whether this new decision, about which quatongen say that it does not deviate so much from the original, means that we have taken a different path than just closing windows, because the physical sales of tickets are falling sharply? With this decision yesterday, have we taken the road to the future? What is your view of the station of the future, Minister? What service functions do you see in that station and do you really want to enforce during this legislature? In what way does the decision taken yesterday by the board differ from the decision announced last week? Accompanying measures have been announced and will be strengthened. What are these accompanying measures? Where will the travellers be able to buy their tickets? That question is asked by the travellers who still buy their ticket at the ticket counter. It is said that other distribution channels will be looked at. Which ones will they be? Is the list of counters knocked off yesterday the same as the list announced last week? What are the exact criteria on the basis of which we have decided to close those 44 points of contact? What savings do we intend to make? The first press release stated that it is an issue which can be deleted and which can be used to modernise services. What specific amount are we talking about? Is there an impact for people with disabilities, wherever they are, also in those stations where counters will be closed? Will they be given less service? Can you guarantee that they can still take the train as before? You have quite rightly said in your original response that SNCB must make use of all the possibilities to close the digital divide. After all, this digital divide is real. This can be derived from the barometer of the information society, published annually by the FPS Economy. This shows that 7% of Belgians between 16 and 74 years of age never use the Internet. For 55-plussers that is 17 %. In the case of low-skilled people, this is 18% and in the case of low-income people, it is more than 20%. More than one in five low-income people never use the Internet. We must never lose sight of that. These people are entitled to a good service. You are quite right to say that SNCB must make efforts to close that gap. What concrete initiatives has SNCB so far taken to bridge this digital divide and what results? What concrete initiatives are on the table for further work on this? Has there actually been an investigation into the impact of the digital divide on the use of the train?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u27	Mr President, Mr Minister, this debate on the elimination of the 44 windows is mobilising all passions. Such a decision is obviously not without consequences for travellers, especially in rural areas, which are already weakened by the lack of infrastructure. Although we welcome the announcement of extended opening times for stations and waiting rooms, the windows remain a public service of high value. With my group, we have always supported SNCB's ambitions. This means that I am defending a SNCB which has the means to redeploy throughout the country. If it is understood that offers can be adapted to changing needs, this cannot be used as an opportunity to reduce service to citizens. The objective must remain a maximum service rather than closures. However, the latter raise legitimate questions about the public service vision proposed and proposed by SNCB over the next few years. Therefore, Minister, let me ask you the following questions. Do you confirm the exact list of counters transmitted last week? On the basis of which criteria were these windows selected? Is this based solely on a performance criterion? How does SNCB envisage the impact of these closures? How does it intend to compensate for the service offered to travellers by the windows to date? I am thinking in particular of the shops in rural areas, because this is an important aspect. What about the presence of staff at the stations? What exactly does the steward function mean? Finally, what solutions will be offered to illiterate people, who would account for up to 10% of the population?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u28	Minister, I do not want to repeat too much. Last Thursday, we had an extensive debate on the subject in plenary. Questions have been asked today and this has also been published in the press. I still have two more questions. Firstly, what has changed in practice after your conversation with SNCB? I don't really see the difference. Secondly, will there be any closing of windows in the future? Can you guarantee that that won't happen again? What is your plan of action for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u29	Mr Minister, the central question of my group is the following. How will we actually reinvest in the humanisation of railway stations? A few weeks ago, I asked the same question about Proximus: how are we going to make this service more human? Here, they will be re-humanized as there were people behind the counters and 44 of them are removed. How will we maintain a presence and accompaniment of the people who need it at the stations, without staff? How and when are we going to see post offices, shops, LSOs growing up in stations, at the same time as they close their counters and get their staff fired? Many other stations have seen their windows disappear in recent years. Are these stations also affected by human reinvestment? I repeat: how, when, with what guarantees and above all, who will pay the bill? You said this morning that you received guarantees of means from SNCB. That's not what people on the train are waiting for, even if I would be happy to know more about these ways. They want guarantees of results; they want the trust that you want to maintain between SNCB and users. All of this is at that price. That's what I want to hear from you, no ads and empty words. We want a detailed plan of the actions and means that you will take to realize the project of reinvesting in the humanisation of the stations. As far as the consultation with the mayors is concerned, I jumped when I learned that you are now speaking to the local authorities to try to remedy the lack put in place by the SNCB. Minister, whether at the federal level or at the regional level, when we report on local entities, I jump and cannot agree. Consultation with the mayors, yes! Send them the ball of deployment of the services to the station, no! The federal government, which discharges itself on the backs of the communes who will have to ensure the realization of a human presence, no! If that is your detailed plan, we cannot endorse it. Thank you, therefore, for offering us an achievable plan to humanise the stations, to provide support to those who need it, to guarantee safety and comfort, and to ensure a credible and concerted conversion of the staff of the stations whose work has been the subject of deep contempt in the SNCB's statements. I imagine that this plan will have been submitted to the associations representing the commuters and, of course, to the user advisory committee. Minister, you're a federal minister, it's not nothing! So you have an important role on the guardianship company. I know it's not easy every day. You have an on-the-spot commissioner who must be clear. You were, of course, aware of this decision to close the windows since 27 November; I will not go back to that. You've been slow to reply. As a result, we are witnessing a collapse of the trust that the public enterprise you have over which you have the tutelage placed in your promise of good governance. So you negotiated a solution to regain, if not the trust of the unions, at least that of Mrs Dutordoir. The federal government is disengaged and the municipalities will have to take over. I am very pleased that there is no railway station in my town. So I am not concerned with the plan, minister, otherwise I would have asked you very dearly! This is unacceptable for commuters, staff and unions. For the actors on the ground and the mayors, I do not know if you have already had a consultation - I would remind you that the mayors are important personalities on the political scale of our country. Minister, how will you rehumanize the stations without necessarily waiting for financial aid from the local authorities? Because that's something I couldn't accept. It is up to the federal government to play this role, to the SNCB to guarantee, and to the minister responsible to verify that the SNCB is working properly, both in Flanders and Wallonia - even in the country of Arlon which is not necessarily in Wallonia and the German-speaking canton. Thank you and await a clear answer from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many elements have already been mentioned. If you look at the figures on the use of the points of contact that are threatened with closure, you may wonder whether the indignation is proportionate to the number of travellers using these points of contact. This shows that this is a sensitive issue, which goes far beyond just the points of contact and the services provided by the point of contact. The subject fits in the list of bpost closing post offices, or Proximus wanting to cut down the number of shops, or banks closing offices and removing ATMs from the villages. Even shops you never thought would disappear and be replaced by an online offer, are disappearing. That makes a lot of people uncomfortable. Many services with a human face disappear in communities, in villages, in cities, in urban areas. As politicians, we need to be aware of this and see if we can't provide an answer. Having said that, the decision certainly has an impact on the provision of services. There may not have been a large number of people using the points of contact affected, but they are still people. We need to pay attention to this: how do these people get their ticket, their subscription or simply the information they need? Often it's about questions like: how do I get the smoothest from A to B? There are people who do not have the required digital skills, but prefer to ask such questions at the window. Those kinds of questions also need to be answered, in any way. There is little clarity about this today. Not all banknotes, subscriptions and discount cards are available digitally today. For some things one still has to physically go to the window. There is also a need to respond to this. Mr Vandenbroucke already referred to the digital divide and quoted a number of pertinent figures. SNCB claims that today 75% of tickets are sold digitally, either via the vending machine or via the Internet. This still means that 25% does not go digital. I think that is a strikingly large share. It is therefore crucial to provide this 25%. That must be considered carefully. For example, I heard the idea that anyone who does not have access to the Internet should be able to buy his ticket at no extra cost on board the train. A pass, for example, could serve as evidence. That's how the group gets a certain concession. The second challenge is the buildings. This is closely linked to the human presence that has been widely discussed. There's a difference with the decision we made last week. I think we made progress there compared to last week. The fact that SNCB is explicitly saying today that it is going to seek, in consultation with the municipal authorities, to fill in the station buildings, so that there is human presence, and not to maximize profits by renting out the buildings at the highest possible price, is, in my view, an important step forward. We look forward very much to the discussions that will be held on this subject, together with municipal authorities, to see how human presence can be guaranteed in the stations. I'm running out of time, so I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u31	I am going to be very brief, ladies and gentlemen, because I am following a hearing next door. Minister, if you will allow me, I would like to refer to my written question, which concerns people with disabilities in particular. I will see if I can come back for the answer, but otherwise my colleague will certainly take it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to welcome the statement made by my colleague, Mr Arens, who told me, in my astonishment, that Arlon would not be in Wallonia. I'm not very good at geography. Today I wanted to talk to you about Waremme, the capital of Hesbaye, in the district of Huy-Waremme, a magnificent district where two of our stations, Huy and Waremme, are concerned, not with the closure at first, but with the reduction of access to the windows. Minister, on Thursday, you came to plenary and you made a commitment to discuss this decision of the SNCB. Today, I was hoping we could have a debate. In the meantime, a communication from the SNCB and a communication from you have also taken place this morning on La Première. I read in the communication before me that we are not talking – and that is a pity – about measures to combat the closure of the windows, but about important accompanying measures to close the 44 windows. Minister, I guess I have to understand that the carrots are cooked, and we're going to be a little bit of an iron pot against the pot of earth. I really regret it, because today, if the carrots are cooked, I would like to know what the future of the Huy and Waremme stations is. What is the future for weak users? What is the future for all commuters, for staff? As a municipalist, if I understand that you are proposing to the municipalities to invest, I would like to know whether it is normal for the municipalities to compensate for this disaffection of our stations, places of conviviality, places where we must maintain safety, and places where we must maintain a public service. I hope the carrots aren't as cooked as I'm afraid I've understood this morning on La Première.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u33	Mr President, Minister, in another debate on the appointment to the Hussard of the Financial Director of SNCB – I will come back to that with another question later – you launched me, in an authoritarian tone: "I absolutely do not accept that you question my word." Well, minister, I think I've done the right thing, as your word constantly moves away from the truth of the facts. Deloyalty, lying by omission, escaping your responsibilities by defeating those of a board of directors. If you had the ambition, as you say at all times, to do politics differently, it is successful! So last week was an opportunity to observe one of those political sagas that we would do well. The citizens, the users of SNCB and the members of the board of directors who did their job fairly, as well as the deputy administrator Mrs Dutordoir, certainly deserved much better. Let's trace the chronology of what the "Gilkinet saga" is going to call. Last Monday, SNCB announced by press release that 44 windows will be closed. You are reacting yourself by believing that this is "an adaptation of services to the changing demand of travellers and to allocate these resources to a strengthened transport supply". Anyway, no opposition. Of which act. The next morning, in the media, your party president strongly denounces this closure and affirms that you "disapprove". As a result, you announce that you are asking the Board of Directors of SNCB to review its position. Nice twist of the jacket! You recall in the media that this decision was made by a board of directors in which no ecologist director sits but you fail to state that there is an Ecolo government commissioner who is none other than the mobility advisor of your party president. Thursday, the letter Ms. Dutordoir sent to you was made public. There, your smoke screen gives way to the facts. The SNCB boss says you broke your trust. In just four months, hat! In the meantime, in plenary, you say, like a matamore, that I have asked the Board of Directors "to fundamentally review its decision" with four axes, including the revision of the list of windows to be closed. It is now known what happened since yesterday the Management Board confirmed its decision while maintaining the accompanying measures already decided and introducing two of your complaints. Nice communication! Minister, in the face of your incomplete answers at the plenary session and therefore contrary to the truth, can you take stock of the following: First, do you confirm that you were informed of this project as early as October 7th? What was your follow-up? Do you confirm that at no time did you or your firm object? How do you explain that it took you 118 days to realize that you were opposed to this decision? Do you confirm that you have the list of the 44 stations concerned as of November 10, contrary to the fact that the members of the board of directors are constantly pointing at you, but they only received it when the SNCB press release was released, Mr.Minister, in order not to politicize their decision-making? Second, do you confirm that your Commissioner of Government was present, as a guest, on the November 27th Board of Directors, when that decision was made and then, again officially at the December 18th meeting, when the minutes of the decision were approved? Do you confirm that he was present on January 29, when this point was again addressed in view of his forthcoming public announcement? Do you confirm that at no time did he disagree with this decision? If so, how can we explain that for more than nine weeks he did not seek to do so? Third, do you confirm that your firm has approved the press release to announce the decision? Fourthly, overall, how do you explain the difference in tone between your statement of Monday, February 1, in which you do not question this decision at any time, and your willingness to return to it? Fifth, what was the expected savings from the closure of these 44 windows? It's important, I think. What amount will they ultimately amount to as a result of the decision taken yesterday by the Board of Directors? Finally, do you admit, minister, that you have not told the whole truth before this Parliament? Would you be prepared to apologize for this and to commit yourself to never doing so again?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u34	Mr Minister, I will not go back to what my colleagues have said, but I will address in particular the problem of two stations in the region of Liège: Ans and Liège. The reduction in passenger services could have an impact on the attractiveness of stations. I am thinking in particular of the train station in Ans, which had already been severely weakened by the sudden abolition of the free car park and whose windows will now be closed. I am also thinking of the station of Liège Saint-Lambert, where the reduction in the number of counters gradually creates a feeling of insecurity. In the long run, we risk seeing a total desertification of these two stations, while it is important that they remain a place of life and meeting. Minister, as we call on our citizens to replace the car with public transport, this reduction in the services offered to the various SNCB stations seems to go against the momentum we want to introduce. On the basis of what criteria was the choice made for the total or partial closure of these two counters? Does SNCB envisage a plan to refurbish these stations in order to avoid their desertification? Finally, since I am also a local representative, I would have wanted to know what was the situation with the mayors of the communes concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u35	Mr President, Minister, last week's announcement took a lot of people. This news hit the local authorities of affected municipalities because there was no prior consultation. That is one of the reasons why so many parties are taking the floor today. It is also one of the reasons why I questioned you last week in plenary about this situation. I am glad that you stand up for the traveller and have entered into the conversation with SNCB. How are you looking at the initiative I announced last week in plenary, about the station of the future? In what way can we ensure that these lively meeting places become? A number of colleagues have referred to this: how can we ensure that the digital divide can be bridged in these stations? You are a minister who stands up for those travelers. I am pleased. The debate, both in plenary last week and now, does please me as a Member of Parliament, because it indicates that many more Members than the permanent members of our committee consider it very important to think carefully about the implementation of the stations. I hope that we can continue to engage in this discussion and that we can continue to think about it. There's work on the shelf to get the SNCB ready for that. You are talking about a lot of investments that you want to make in the future with regard to SNCB. That's good, but I don't think it's just about money. The heads of the SNCB summit must also mature in order to put the traveller even more at the centre. As I said earlier on a previous question, steps have certainly been taken in recent months, but there can certainly be more. Why did SNCB not go ahead in consultation with local authorities and travelers' organisations? Is SNCB willing to do so in the coming months? I asked you last week about your vision of the future at the stations. You replied in part at that time. I am also curious to see the views of SNCB. How does she see the station of the future? Do you think it appropriate that SNCB should draw up such a general vision and engage in discussions with those concerned? Will provisions be included in the new service contract if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u36	Minister, many of us are questioning you. For my part, I will concentrate on the practicality and realism of the measures that have just been taken. I remember the experience I had a few years ago in my commune. We found ourselves in a very unpleasant situation as a result of station closures. After several years, SNCB's and Infrabel's obligations were painfully delayed. Like many municipalities, we are faced with disproportionate and heavy investments in non-local buildings. Today's news is a new element occurring in a well-known legal and financial context and well-balanced for many municipalities and citizens. Very clearly, SNCB has nothing to do with stations that it gradually abandons before the next stage of closure. It leaves lightly on the arms of the communes and the cankers' quarters, which undermine social cohesion and pollute the living environment. I have been reading amazing things for 24 hours, such as a person from SNCB who will spend every day in the places visited, pilot projects, information sessions or subscriptions sent by the Post Office. Minister, in the commune where I am a mayor, we have had the same ambitions as you for several years. However, I have the feeling that we could be more concrete and much faster at SNCB level. Could you explain to me the framework for dialogue that will begin with the localities? What is planned in this new dialogue for already closed stations? Very concretely, by whom and to what extent will the costs of these rehabilitations be borne? For example, in Courcelles, it costs 700,000 euros. If you say that no railway station will be closed at these 44 stations, how many more will only have ATMs? I hear your wish for a partnership with the Post Office but given that the stations are places of connection with the other public transport companies, what collaborations are planned and planned with it for human and social reception? Finally, is there a cadastre of these places still open and those closed in the national territory or will it be carried out without waiting for the next management contract? If it exists, can Parliament be aware of it and be promptly communicated to local authorities without distinction of any kind? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u37	Minister, since my question was put, things have moved. You gave us explanations in plenary. In addition, a decision was taken by the board of directors yesterday, which was relayed in the press. I will therefore make some changes to the written question that has been forwarded to you. I am surprised how the decision was rectified. Finally, the 44 windows will still be closed. When it comes to consultation with local authorities – I am the mayor of a commune where there are two small stations in which there is no longer a human presence for a long time – this consultation must take place before any decision is taken. I am not surprised that the mayors of the communes concerned are angry. If we take the case of Saint-Ghislain, we can be surprised at the closure of a window at a large railway station with some 2,300 passengers a day. A priori, the decision made is very strange in the eyes of the commuters and was unimaginable. When we know that we are now going to ask the mayor of Saint-Ghislain to see what we can do with the station, when four years ago, he was refused the arrangement of this one with a communal crèche, I am not surprised that the mayors are angry. The important thing for me is to have a human presence at the stations. I've been a commuter for a long time. I've had a human presence in almost every small station. This presence has disappeared over time. Previously, there was a barrier guard that brought down and up the fence. Of course, we can understand that everything is automated today. You can also understand that a lot of things are computerized and that you can buy your ticket online via an app on your smartphone. But it cannot be ignored that part of the population does not have access to this technology, as other colleagues have mentioned. Every time a human presence disappears in a station, we can be sure that the building will deteriorate. Let us take, for example, the station in Quiévrain, which is in ruins, when SNCB's initiatives have been expected for more than fifteen years now. I have been a parliamentarian for thirteen years. I intervene twice a year for this station but nothing moves. This is unacceptable! A great deal of work needs to be done at the SNCB level to improve the condition of the stations. It is therefore imperative, Mr Minister, that you guarantee that a physical presence will be maintained at the 44 stations concerned. We have heard that consultation has begun with the local authorities, but the issue of station safety also remains. As soon as there is no longer a physical and official presence of SNCB agents, there is an increase in the feeling of insecurity. So I'd like to hear from you about that. More generally, one can only regret this decision to close forty-four windows, which was confirmed yesterday by the Board of Directors. On the other hand, I consider that, as the minister responsible, you have a power superior to that which you are showing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a social debate: what do we think of the public service provided by SNCB? I find it incomprehensible that all the parties on the board of directors, the ministers of Mobility and the management of SNCB want to close the counters. This is in stark contrast to the opinion of the users, who express a lot of criticism and do not think it is a good decision. After all, I wonder who the advocates of closing the counters have spoken to? User associations, trade unions, the National High Council for Persons with Disability (NHRPH) and elderly organisations have all responded to this decision. Then how on earth is it possible to still decide to close 44 points of contact? As I said during the plenary session, I have been listening to shopkeepers. Last Friday we even organised an action in Jette, where the counters will also be closed. Those people told me what they all do. I hear far too little talk about the social role of the people at the counters. It's so important to the travelers. After all, operators do so much more than just hand over a ticket. A vending machine cannot tell the travellers what is the most favorable fare. I saw a movie about that from someone from the union. That is one of the reasons why people turn to a window. There are all kinds of help questions with which travellers go to the counter. I do not see any solution for that aspect. After what was said last week, and after the decision that is now being taken, I am very disappointed by the fact that all these points of contact will close. This will create ghost stations, where there is nothing left to do. You may say that you will do something about this, but it will not be the shopkeepers of neighbouring shops who will be able to answer, for example, the questions of an older person whose train has been abolished. Yesterday we were talking about the fact that transport is currently so difficult because of the cold. Now, I have a colleague who lives in Ronse, whose train was suddenly unable to continue because of the cold, so my colleague had to take a bus. Fortunately, at the time, there were people present at the window to show the travellers. What if those people weren't there? What would happen if those people at the window weren't there? I still understand that the Liberals and the N-VA do not mind the closure. But for all the other parties to agree, I'm way out of my league. I really can't understand that. We are not against technological progress, but we think it is very important that SNCB should play a social role in our society and that the people who are now staffing the counters can continue to carry out their duties to help travellers if they have questions. That is why we will continue to oppose and have tabled a motion of recommendation. We've started a petition and are going to take action tomorrow in Mechelen Negro coil. That is a large station that has recently been thoroughly renovated. I can give you a few more figures on the millions invested in various stations that are now closing: Liedekerke 17 million, Waterloo 6 million, Saint-Ghislain 3 million, Mechelen Nekkerspool 2.6 million. These are all stations in which a lot of money was spent and which will no longer have a window. There will no longer be any service provided by SNCB. That's what it's about in the end. We therefore ask that the points of contact remain open. My questions to you, Minister, are as follows. What exactly is decided on the board of directors? Are you going to hold any further consultations to reverse the closure of the points of contact? After all, there is a lot of resistance. What will this mean for the staff working there now? It's about 77 employees, isn't it? We are in favour of the development of alternatives for the point of contact staff, such as broadening the scope of the tasks or providing tourist information. If you say that people can get their tickets from bpost, we would much prefer that the people who manage the counters can also perform those services. This way packages could be picked up from them. Have you thought about giving the desk clerk a more social role in the whole thing? I now give you my motion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u39	As a conclusion to the discussion, I shall read out the motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u40	Mr President, Minister, a great deal has already been said, so I shall confine myself to the questions that have been somewhat neglected. Firstly, what is the difference between the final decision of the board and the initial plan? Where are the differences? That's not entirely clear to me. Secondly, what kind of accompanying policy is being rolled out here in the margins of closing the counters? I read, for example, as one of the decisions of the Board of Directors that a person from Securail or from the maintenance staff would come to the closed counters on a daily basis. Do you confirm that? What's the point of that? I think that's a strange idea. Should travellers then ask the cleaning staff for information? What is the meaning of that? Then where exactly is the saving? Is this only applied to those 44 stations to be closed to gild the pill, or is that something that will be structurally extended as a policy towards other closed counters? What is the policy on this at all? I see a lot of closed stations all over the country. There's over a hundred of them. What do you intend to do there? Thirdly, are alternatives to physical sales being developed? Colleagues have already referred here to recent history at bpost. Over the years many post offices have been closed down, but there the services have been shifted to the newspaper shops, in the form of postal points. In practice, this has proved to be an improvement in many areas of service provision. A working person has more to gain from a postpoint with flexible opening hours in a newspaper shop than from a post office that opens at 09.30 a.m. and closes the doors again at 5 p.m. The same analogy could be applied to SNCB in the form of train points. In this way we will be given a point of contact in every village, which would mean strengthening the service, including with regard to digibets and the elderly. One could organize the sale through the newspaper shops. That is a sector in difficulty, and that would therefore be a push in the back for a lot of small self-employed people. It would also ease the pill of closing the counters. I believe that this is a win-win situation for all interested parties, especially the public. Of course, that idea is not new. In 2017, already four years ago, a resolution of the N-VA was adopted to that effect. Minister, you were a Member of Parliament at the time and you voted against it. However, I read in the press that you are now considering such a scenario. Do you confirm that? In the meantime, have you become in favour of that kind of strengthening of alternatives to the physical sale of SNCB products? Fourthly, how much is ultimately saved by closing the counters? Last but not least, what is the ultimate result of the breach of trust that has occurred between yourself as a guardian minister and the monopolist, the public body you control, the SNCB? Apparently, a few jars have been broken. It seems that SNCB is more difficult to take your word for it. If you break a given word publicly, there will be some consequences. I would also like to ask you what the consequences are for us as Members of Parliament. We ask you to explain your policies and intentions, but if they are not implemented, the question arises as to what your word as a minister is worth. What is the value of the statements you make to Parliament, knowing that they are out of the question if SNCB does not agree to them? Since yesterday, after the board of directors, we know that SNCB is the longest on this issue and therefore, unlike you, has the last word in trace materials. Minister, what authority do you still have in these matters?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u41	Mr President, Minister, we have had an extensive debate now and also last week. In the meantime, it is clear that 44 stations will close. So far, however, it is still unclear to me to what extent it will be creatively implemented. This should create a win-win situation for the traveller, the SNCB and the local trader. Will we seize the opportunity to create train points so that, in addition to the supply of newspapers or the possibility of drinking coffee or a beer, SNCB products are also sold by traders? I refer to De Lijn and TEC, whose tickets have been sold through traders for years. A trader can be a perfect alternative to a classic counter. In this way, support remains for those who need it, as several colleagues have already mentioned. Toilets and waiting areas may also remain available. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you specifically whether you will encourage SNCB to turn this closure into a positive story and turn the available spaces into train points, with a win-win situation for travellers, SNCB and local entrepreneurship. Can you clarify how SNCB looks at this? Will you include that in the management agreement? In fact, a resolution was already adopted in 2017, on the part of our party.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u42	Mr President, Minister, many of us are speaking today, and that is quite normal. It is a topical subject and one that concerns tens of thousands of commuters every day, as well as 77 FTEs. Their interests were strongly defended by trade unions and shuttle associations. In the end, there is an agreement. He had to be renegotiated at the start of the SNCB's decision, which remains bad. Bad by its consequences, but also because it reflects a problem of method that neglects consultation with users and workers. We need to learn from this not only in terms of the vitality of the stations but also in terms of accessibility. There are two aspects to this debate. Yes, the digital age also leaves users at the edge of the road. We can glaze on this episode. The fact is that this sequence federated critics last week against the strategy of human disinvestment in stations. Now we must unite these wills for another project for rail and users who must be put at the heart of our rail policy. The future is a lively station that concentrates activities, but also accessible, offering multiple solutions to allow everyone to buy a ticket and travel. Minister, what are the criteria used by SNCB in choosing the location of closed windows? Will this have an impact on stations that are planned to improve accessibility for PMRs, for example? Will SNCB provide for future consultation with workers' representatives, user associations and municipalities in this type of case? Will these different parties be involved in discussions on the development of the next public service contract, which should include user comfort and accessibility of stations? SNCB refers to the presence of stewards during a transition period. What will their role be? Does SNCB consider alternative solutions to maintain the purchase of tickets for all, i.e. virtual, on-demand or other creative solutions? What in case of defective automatons? Are there other avenues under consideration? For me, this debate concerns the issue of live stations, but also stations accessible to all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u43	Mr President, Minister, many questions have been asked and I will not repeat the debate on the deletion decision. I would like to say that a society such as SNCB has to be modern and innovative without doing so at the expense of its primary mission: service to the citizens. Moreover, the digital divide cannot be overshadowed. Minister, I come to my questions. What solutions are you making today to ensure that the citizens of the affected stations (the Binche station in particular) are not discriminated against? Is there any provision for station staff to provide social control and assistance to people in the use of automatons? What guarantees do you offer in the face of the risk of increasing the digital divide caused by these deletions? What evidence can we have of the continuation of the service offered by SNCB, which will be amputated by an important link in its chain?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u44	Minister, it is clear that there is a breach of confidence between you and the SNCB summit. There is also a breach of trust between you and this committee and an extension between Parliament and this government. If we have the floor at the end of a topical debate, the disadvantage is that many things have already been said, but the advantage is that we can properly frame this democratically. Mrs Buyst has pointed out that there is a large presence today, which shows that this issue is very important. Mr Vindevoghel mentioned the ghost stations. They are already numerous and these measures make them even more numerous, which is regrettable. Mr. De Maegd made it clear as well. There has been a serious communication problem over the last few weeks and even months. Mr De Maegd has revealed this in a very clear way, and that should not be underestimated. Finally, Mr Parent and Mr Vandenbroucke asked on what basis this decision was taken. As a Social People's Party, the Flemish Interest strongly opposes the closure of the counters. Apparently, she will be there anyway, as I belong in the media, but on what basis was that decision made? A lot of my questions have already been asked, so I'm selecting a little bit. On what basis were the stations selected? Was there consultation with local government and possibly with civil society organisations, such as TrainTramBus or associations for the elderly, which are less skilled in digital ticketing and subscriptions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u45	Mr President, Minister, many things have been said in this long series of interventions. I rarely speak in matters other than those in which I usually work, such as justice, energy and now finance. But I had a real astonishment when I heard the news that the SNCB intended to close the stations of my native Wallonia Picardy territory, specifically the stations of Lessines, Leuze, Péruwelz and Silly. These are stations I know very well. Three of them have been renovated. They each have an interesting parking lot that allows lots of commuters, who are workers joining Brussels, to make their journeys properly every day, morning and evening. There are also a lot of connections with the buses in these places. These stations are therefore very lively and, most of the time, quite new, renovated for some. One of them is quite new and that of Peruwelz, who was going to undergo a thorough renovation, will thus plunge back into the difficulty because of this decision. I was surprised because in your electoral program, for many years now, you, your current president and your party have been defending the use of soft mobility and the use of public service – service to the public, it must be remembered that is now manifesting itself as a service that is turning away from the public. My colleague Michel De Maegd and others with him have explained the series of shortcomings in which you are currently stuck, between half-truths, a particular relation to reality and, again today morning on the antennas of the RTBF, a renunciation which does not say his name, but which makes us understand that there is no more hope and that these 44 windows will indeed be closed. It is therefore a small disaster, not only ideological, but above all for all the places of life which these stations constitute, for the commuters who use them every day, for those who expect better, who expect better service from the State and SNCB and who will obviously no longer be able to hope to obtain it. Given the situation, the little weight you have shown in this case and the breakdown of confidence that now exists between you and the SNCB, as well as between you and this Parliament, I would like to know why and how this has been achieved. Why has SNCB decided, for the four stations I have just spoken of, namely Lessines, Leuze, Perwez and Silly, medium-sized towns and municipalities, but with a lot of commuters, to turn away from its service to the public, and according to what criteria? Secondly, I note that there has been little prior consultation; between you and SNCB, of course; but with the actors on the ground, certainly not. What measures now? Knowing that they are heritage places sometimes, they are places of life, they are places where we must keep a socialization. These are places where the digital divide will be even more marked. These are places where an open, living and welcoming service should be maintained for all commuters in order to continue to encourage them to use public transport. Minister, what are your concrete measures now to combat the digital divide for the benefit of, in particular, the elderly and the most vulnerable, to facilitate the purchase of train tickets or the taking of information in relation to a direction, a trip to be considered, when there will no longer be this human contact to help them? How can the same elderly people, disabled people, the most vulnerable, order a ticket in advance? For example, could it be considered that they could buy their ticket on the train without charge? How will you consider taking measures to avoid leaving anyone on the wharf? The contribution of the local authorities is a good idea in itself, but it is obviously not necessary to charge the municipalities, which already have a great deal of financial difficulties and problems to manage. I have information that obviously you wouldn't have had, or not gleaned enough. It seems obvious to me that we must continue to consult with the local authorities. However, I would like to know more about the concrete contribution you were considering for them. How do you guarantee that their participation in this exchange you will have with them will be taken into account? How do you guarantee that their requests will be implemented? I would also like a monitoring to be created and a new survey carried out to estimate the number of visitors who will now use these stations which will change their reception and configuration. Finally, I would like you to tell me whether the number of visitors will stabilize or even increase, which would be desirable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u46	Mr President, Minister, we all know your interest in the train and your willingness to encourage our fellow citizens to move more towards sustainable mobility, and thus towards the train. It is an objective that we all share, except that, for this to happen, it is necessary that at least two conditions can be met: a relationship of trust with SNCB and a human presence in stations. But your statements and double speeches over the last few days – let's not deny things; you have still denied an agreement that occurred last November and for which you knew perfectly well – have led, on the one hand, to a breach of confidence in the head of the CEO of SNCB and, on the other hand, to the continuation of the policy of dehumanisation of our stations which was actually initiated under the previous government. The MR seems surprisingly to have forgotten it. Minister, when you were a member of the opposition, you were right to denounce this policy. Today, when you had all the cards in hand to change this policy, you supported it. Of course, this Monday you tried to catch the sauce with an alternative proposal with the management of SNCB. Still, evil was already done. Indeed, on Tuesday, the extraordinary Board of Directors of SNCB took note of the decision already taken in November, i.e. the closure of these 44 railway stations by the end of this year. This decision was taken with the consent of the parties represented on the Board of Directors of SNCB. It is true that accompanying measures have been foreseen (a greater human presence, extended hours in waiting rooms, etc.).), except that these measures are totally vague, based on the municipalities or are totally insufficient only to compensate for the abolition of these windows and what they bring daily to commuters in terms of security, information and therefore public service they are entitled to expect from SNCB. Minister, my questions are many – I'm sorry – but if the compensatory measures had been more specific, they wouldn't have been so. How is the decision adopted on Tuesday different from that adopted last November, since it already involved the closure of 44 railway stations with accompanying measures? Why was the list of counters not finally reviewed as you announced this Monday as part of your press release? When did SNCB conduct the study to say that the number of clients reaching the relevant windows had become too small to be maintained? Was it normal or during the health crisis? Have we also taken into account the work that has necessarily prevented the windows from operating? This is particularly the case for my station, Rhode-Saint-Genèse, which was under construction throughout last year. Do you assume this decision as a purely economic choice? Moreover, how can you guarantee that the savings achieved in this way will automatically be invested in the supply of trains, in accessibility, punctuality, safety, cleanliness? Are you well aware that the human presence you are announcing in your press release will never replace the information that only a SNCB station counter can offer users? Can you assure us that these closures will ultimately not announce any more since the SNCB press release states that it "will assess the desirability and feasibility of extending this new model of human presence to other stations"? How will collaboration with the communes be realized, since, so far, they have not been agreed upon in the decision to close these windows, which concerned them? Is it normal that they were only agreed last week and thus put before the fait accompli? Finally, what are you proposing to the 77 full-time equivalents involved in the closure of these windows, whether during the six-month transition period or after the closure of these windows? Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u47	Mr Minister, it is important for me to come back to this subject which has already been discussed at length in plenary, in particular by my colleague Emmanuel Burton: this decision to close 44 windows. I was mainly involved for my commune, Waterloo, but also for all the others because this lack of windows is a disaster for many residents. This decision was taken unilaterally, without any consultation. Once again, I will take the example of my municipality of Waterloo. Just a few weeks ago, we opened a station there, equipped with a new window, which will be removed. A lot of questions arise. In my municipality there are many elderly people, who rely on these windows. We hear a lot about human presence. Minister, in the press, you have often come back to this aspect. It is therefore important to reassure these people, as it is the oldest and most impoverished public who is penalized by such a decision. Mr Minister, if I obviously regret the lack of consultation before the closure decision, is it going to take place or not? If so, how? Is there a meeting with the mayors concerned? There are alternatives to a simple closure. There was a six-month adjustment and transition period, but that is not right for me. We need to think about other possibilities. This means that service to the public can be increased by adding a parcel point-relay, a ticket distributor, a post point, etc. In short, I am talking about services useful to the population, which could be set up in consultation with the municipalities. We also need it. This could solve many situations. I am absolutely not in favour of maintaining a shopkeeper, alone, who will work – on the limit – twice a half hour a day. I understand that this is meaningless. However, instead of a simple closure, it could be used to install other services. One of the risks is to see lines formed in front of the automatons. Some users will get angry because it will be the first time they will use it or because they will not get away with it. As a result, their train will pass under their noses. In short, this may not be the right solution. What is your will? What concrete measures are you going to take to combat the digital divide? How will you consult the municipalities to find solutions? In the press, you talked about the need for a real human presence, but it is important that you repeat it here. Given the context, these stations are much more than just a ticket counter to buy a train ticket. Much remains to be improved. Thank you for your answers. I apologise for having to leave you already: I must now speak in the Committee on the Economy. Of course, I will listen carefully to the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a topical debate. A colleague who did not raise a question could intervene. But I don't see anyone. Minister, there are 26 questions, including an inquiry. Many colleagues are present in our committee, the level of stretching is well above average. I believe that this issue of ticket offices at railway stations is undoubtedly the consistency of our session this afternoon. In short, Minister, everyone is looking forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u49	Mr President, as I said in plenary on Thursday, I welcome everyone's interest in train and train stations. There is a lot of sensitivity and I share it. As a reminder, SNCB is an autonomous public undertaking whose public service tasks must be defined in management contracts and compensated in accordance with the quantitative and qualitative objectives assigned. The last management contract between the supervisory authority and SNCB was concluded in 2008 and was valid until 2012. That's the tool I have as a minister to work with. It is a board of directors that makes the decisions. It is composed of political representatives of almost all the parties that have spoken. There are four representatives for PS, two for MR, CD&V and N-VA and one for cdH. Beyond these directors, there is also a government commissioner, without the right to vote, whose role is not executive, who attends the meetings. Under the current framework, no public service mission with specific quantitative or qualitative objectives is assigned to SNCB for station reception. This aspect is therefore part of the management autonomy left to SNCB by successive governments since the conclusion of the 2008 management contract. The supervisory authority cannot therefore impose public service tasks without the establishment of a new contract. On the other hand, it can dialogue with SNCB to improve the services offered to travellers as much as possible under the existing management contract and the allocations granted. That is for the general context. It's important to have him in mind. With regard to the history of the case, the decision to close the 44 windows was taken on 24 November 2020. On 27 November 2020, on the basis of the dossier proposed by the management of SNCB, the Management Board unanimously agreed to the so-called rationalisation of sales points with staff. The proposed management of SNCB consisted of the closure of 44 outlets at the end of 2021, with a transitional period starting on 1 March, with these counters remaining open 2 or 3 days a week. The timetable of 37 points of sale will also be adjusted from 1 March. The decision was based on specific considerations of SNCB's management, including the digital passenger trend: 43% of transactions via digital channels in 2015 compared to 75% in 2020; 54% of transactions took place at the window in 2015, compared to 21% in 2020; 70 small outlets have a vacancy rate between 60 and 92%. The sales volume of these 44 counters represents only 5.6% of the total number of transactions at the counter. The same applies, according to SNCB, to customer satisfaction along a digital channel. A reduction in the number of FTEs by closing points of contact can be absorbed by natural development and covers 45 persons in 2021 and around 30 persons in 2022. In other words, there will be no redundancies. Most of these shopkeepers arrive at the pension age, according to SNCB. The total savings amount to more than 6 million euros. This is about 60 million euros in 10 years time. The number of points of contact in Belgium is considerably higher than in neighbouring countries, says SNCB: 16% of our stations have a point of contact, compared with 13% in France, 9% in the Netherlands and 6% in Germany. 40% of travellers are already leaving a non-stop station. There is a willingness to invest in the transport supply, new railway equipment and accessibility of stations and platforms. These are the arguments that were presented and led to the decision of 27 November. As indicated at the plenary session on 4 February, I was informed of this project by the management of the company and I expressed reservations about it. Several issues were raised by my office (the question of the impact on employment, the question of life at railway stations, the question of the quality of reception for travellers, the question of the digital divide). The file was processed by SNCB and validated by its Board of Directors on 27 November in the presence, as an observer, of the new Commissioner of the Government whose appointment order took effect on 3 December, the date of its publication, therefore after the holding of the Board of Directors, but was actually present. As I indicated in the plenary session on 4 February, on 1 February I asked the SNCB Board of Directors to review its decision on various points: consultation with the municipalities and reassignment of stations, reopening of waiting rooms and combating the digital divide. Following this letter, two meetings were held between my firm and the management of SNCB, in this case with the CEO of SNCB, last Friday and this Monday. They led to a joint proposal presented at a new board of directors, which was held, as you all know, on Tuesday, 9 February. Several requests were made for these additional accompanying measures, which were agreed upon. So I'm going to detail them. In order to ensure that the transition takes place as best as possible for all categories of travellers and that, in accordance with the wishes of the Minister for Mobility, stations play a specific role in the social fabric, the following accompanying measures have been agreed. [[Firstly, the SNCB undertakes to implement partnership agreements with the local authorities concerned with a view to maintaining a living presence in stations where a window closure is planned, by designating within it a person of contact assigned to each station and initiating an active dialogue with each municipal authority concerned; by making a priority call with this municipal authority for projects adapted to the local context and taking into account the context of the state and potential of each station, – it is a fact that they are not all the same –; by allowing, within the framework of the installation of non-profit activities – it is, in my view, an important element – the provision of spaces to conditions corresponding only to the cost of management and operation – in other words, at a cost, which constitutes an opportunity for new projects – by establishing a complete cadastre of the potential of the 44 stations concerned and a reporting of the initiatives taken in order to have a first concrete vision, by 30 June at the latest; by organising a permanent follow-up of these initiatives by the management committee.]] The SNCB will assess, on the basis of these experiments, the desirability and feasibility of extending this model to other stations, including stations whose windows have already been closed during previous waves of window closures. Secondly, SNCB is committed to keeping all the stations concerned open and accessible to passengers in the best possible safety and comfort conditions by guaranteeing a covered and heated waiting room. It is important to extend the waiting hours of the waiting room according to the train supply and the activities that are being carried out. I hear a lot of people complaining about not being able to wait for the train in heated spaces under current weather conditions. The space will be maintained three to five times a week and the daily passage of the SNCB staff will be guaranteed. On the basis of this experience, SNCB will examine the possibilities and feasibility of extending the opening hours of the waiting rooms in other stations of the network. Thirdly, SNCB undertakes to take complementary measures throughout the Belgian network in order to combat the digital divide and to facilitate access to the train for all the public: – By organising dialogue with associations representing the fragile and elderly public in order to find the most appropriate solutions enabling them to have access to the railway service. Many associations have responded. They must be able to engage in live dialogue with SNCB and seek solutions with SNCB. – By guaranteeing the presence of automatons in each station and the possibility to call a SNCB employee to obtain the information, until they have the possibility to be accompanied remotely for the purchase of the ticket and its impression, the operator taking control of the operation. – By organising a mobile reinforcement for particular periods or events, such as the school year with the preparation of school subscriptions or holidays with tourist destinations or festivals. – By exploring the possibility of offering, through the call centre or partnerships with bpost or other public services, services that are currently offered only at the counter, such as making MOBIB cards, BIM cards, duplicates in case of loss or theft. This remains to be realized, but it is an opportunity. – By exploring the possibility of integrating into the call to the market to be launched in 2021 for the deployment of a new model of automation, user-friendly modalities to enter into direct contact with an operator to receive appropriate assistance. In addition, SNCB confirms that stewards will be present as early as March 2021 to inform travellers of all the features of the easy-to-use, remote-assisted and free-of-charge sales machines, and to assist those who need them. The implementation of all these measures will be monitored within the Management Committee and quarterly monitoring within the Management Board. In parallel, the Minister for Mobility and the delegate director have committed themselves to giving priority to, inter alia, the following issues, which are essential for tomorrow's mobility. A new ambitious public service contract will be concluded in the course of 2022, including the services to be insured in the stations, by category, while at the same time allocating the public transport concession to SNCB for 10 years. Furthermore, within the current management framework, the transport offer will be increased by 5% by the end of 2022 on the basis of the projects contained in the transport plans 2023, approved by the Council of Ministers and the Management Board. In addition, access to stations and trains for persons with reduced mobility, inter alia, will be improved through a coordinated and ambitious investment policy and joint initiatives for the benefit of passengers, together with the three regional public transport companies, will be developed. Finally, with regard to boarding assistance for disabled persons, it was a question that had been asked by several people, including Ms Lanjri. It was agreed that it would be maintained in the same manner and to the same extent as before this decision to close the windows, as our efforts are continuing to make trains and stations more accessible within the framework of the ordinary investment budgets and within the framework of the resources resulting from the Boost plan, which I initiated since 1 October. As I have already had the opportunity to say, I will admit that the sequence has not been ideal in the context of the relations between SNCB and its appropriate minister, but we have resumed the dialogue this Friday and Monday and we have made a commitment, together, to continue working on the ambitious objectives contained in the government agreement and in my policy note. Since this is the subject of the debate, for the future, I would like above all to see more lively, more comfortable and more accessible stations. I intend to put the relevant benchmarks in the SNCB's future public service contract, which will allow us, no matter what the minister I hope, to reverse a trend – I regret it today and I denounced it yesterday – towards the concentration of resources in certain prestigious stations at the expense of small and medium-sized stations and travellers. If we want more people on our trains, we must not only make our network more robust and improve the supply of trains to make them more frequent, trains earlier in the morning, later in the evening – it is vision 2040, but also offer the most optimal reception conditions. I hope that we can make this constraint an opportunity in collaboration with local authorities, the voluntary sector and commercial operators who would like to invest the buildings, while at the same time ensuring – this is really important for me – quality reception conditions for travellers who have to wait for their train or wait for another means of personal or collective transport after their train.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but you have not answered certain questions. So you did not say on what basis these 44 stations were selected. However, that is a question that arises as there are stations with only 200 passengers per day, while others have more than 2,000 per day. We can also ask you about this in writing. For the record, I do not want to get stuck in some kind of nostalgia about the points of contact, which bothers me somewhat in this debate. Some people here are screaming murder and fire because there are windows closing. I also believe that closing windows without alternative is not a good thing. However, I would like to devote my time in particular to figuring out how we will see the service of the future rather than just talking about points of contact. Minister, you are on the right track here. You have said a number of interesting things about the future of our stations. It is also very important that you announce that you really want to conclude a new management agreement in 2022. That contract will define what we can expect from SNCB in the public service stations. I hope, however, that the implementation of more comfortable and more accessible stations will become more concrete. The answer to what is expected from the station of the future may be different depending on whether it is a small station on a little used line or a very large station. I don't think that's much more than usual either. I have also heard you say that, as far as you are concerned, there is too much investment in the major stations to the detriment of the smaller ones. I don't know exactly what you mean by that, but I hope you're not talking about Gent-Sint-Pieters. In the meantime we have been waiting 15 years for a renovation which will last for at least four years. That point has already been cleared up. I welcome the consultation with local authorities and associations to see how we can turn these stations into nodes of activity and service. However, this will involve costs. If a local government or a local association wants to cooperate with SNCB, I assume that an invoice will be attached to it. I hope it will be a reasonable invoice because what the commercial operators have to pay today is not least in the stations where many people pass. That's a fair amount of money. That is a threshold that will have to be overcome. Finally, I would like to address Mrs Vindevoghel of the PVDA. Mrs Vindevoghel, I am pleased that the Minister has begun to explain what an autonomous public undertaking is. So as simple as you suggest, it doesn't work. It's as if we could just call the board and tell them what our wishes are or aren't, and then they'll just be executed. This is not how an autonomous public undertaking works. If anyone thinks as a traditional party from the 70s or 80s, when we still had state-led companies, where ministers and MEPs could indeed call on their personal grievances to the CEO and the board of directors, then you are. So the scurvy you give here and which your party also gives on Facebook to all the other groups here in Parliament is totally unjustified. I invite you to think together with us about ways in which we can improve services in the future, rather than holding a rearguard fight on Facebook and raising arguments in Parliament that really make no sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u51	Mr. Minister, this issue unleashes passions. For railway workers, commuters, friends of rail, seeing their windows disappear from the beginning of this exercise of the new government, while we all had strong expectations with your coming as an environmentalist to the position of Minister of Railways, made the effect of an announcement of a train that derailed. With this government, we want maximum service. This case will have highlighted the need for a minister to have a constant, genuine and reliable dialogue with the companies for which he or she is responsible and with the federal Parliament. If the closure of the windows were indeed inevitable and an indisputable economic choice, we could have accompanied you in the reflections to be carried out around the future of the windows. We are parliamentarians and are at your service to accompany you in your important responsibility of the Ministry of National Mobility. Of course, we cannot condone double speeches. Since the beginning of this case, you have repeated your wish to bring down this decision of the SNCB and, unfortunately, we can only note that in the arm of arms which opposed you to Mrs Dutordoir, it was she who took it away. Today, you lost a battle and, for me, I'm going to war. At war for the maintenance of the stations because, as I said to you in plenary session, and even before that in committee, between the closing of the windows and the closing of the stations, there is only one step. Locally, the fear of the stations being closed has only increased. I hope I never have to make a cross on my map at the stations of Gouvy, Marbehan or Bertrix. The same applies to all other stations concerned. Unfortunately, our confidence in the reliability of the information you give us has been somewhat shaken. I shall therefore continue with the support of my group to repeat the red line that must not be exceeded. No station must close! Minister, none of the parliamentarians in committee sits on the Board of Directors of the SNCB. We sit on the public committee of the Federal Parliament where we can decide what we have at our disposal. Whether they are routine management files or more difficult files, we remain at your disposal to help you. I will continue to do so as far as possible. I would therefore say that there are several elements that must continue to inform our thinking in the future. First of all, how will we maintain a human presence that ensures quality information for citizens? For the Socialist Party, this must go – and we will be intransigent on this point – by maintaining the presence of railway workers and SNCB workers in the various stations concerned. Secondly, why not think about other assignments or complementary tasks to be given to railway workers, for example, to give complementarities to their mission with regard to intermodal mobility? This can of course be considered and studied. On the other hand, I was aware that 35 out of the 77 parties concerned will naturally retire by the next year. What will happen to the remaining 42 counters? Will they continue to play a role of welcoming and advising citizens at railway stations or will they be assigned elsewhere in an internal mobility operation? In the second case, who are we going to look for to ensure the welcome role within the station? Finally, I come back to the question of the time frame of the waiting rooms. What time frame will be set for these? For us, ensuring a time range at least equivalent to the current window access times is imperative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. However, I have a lot of additional questions and concerns. You are referring first of all to the autonomous operation of SNCB. However, what you have done by publicly whistled back to SNCB is to break into that autonomy. That is, in itself, a very dubious principle. You then outlined a timeline: you say that the Governing Council decided on 27 November 2020 to close the points of contact. I really cannot imagine a board of directors being called together and that the same day it will soon be decided to close windows. This is probably preceded by a whole process of consultation, counting and analysis. I simply cannot imagine that you would not know in advance what will be decided on 27 November. If that were the case, it would be very bad. Then there can be a whole discussion about the representatives present on that council and so on. First there was a whole discussion for the camera at Linda De Win, and not as it should be in the hemisphere about representatives of Ecolo and other parties who were present or not and had or did not have the right to vote. I call that course of action a weakness offer. That too is very worrying. Then I asked what is actually changing after your conversation with SNCB. In my eyes, almost nothing changes. Agreed, partnerships will be established with local authorities. I thought that was supposed to happen anyway. Of course, we need to talk to the local authorities! What else? The doors will stay open a little longer, the heating will be set up, dialogues will be set up, even though I don't know who to date with someone who might not be there? So we get a warm, lively station, while SNCB comes to tell us that they have to send someone by once a day. Is that someone from Securail or someone else? When? How long? All questions. This is therefore an unintelligible measure in which everyone is dissatisfied: trade unions, local authorities, and not least the weaker ones who are not in favour of digitisation and automation. They're left behind, their problem isn't solved. To make those decisions, we have based ourselves on counts of digital transactions versus counter transactions. It is fair to say that some of these statistics are made by closing the counters. That's not the first time it's happened. For those 44 windows which close and the 37 whose opening hours are limited, it will be seen that digital transactions will indeed increase and that window transactions will decrease. That makes sense, because they're being shut down. So one makes one's own figures and statistics for one's own policies. I'd like to leave it at that. I had also asked a question about the future of the counters. Can you guarantee if they stay open or not? I didn't get an answer to that. We'll keep following up on the case. Trust in you as Minister of Mobility is in any case very shattered today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u53	Mr President, unfortunately the Gilkinet train derailed after 120 days. The loss of confidence is total, just listen to the defenders of the rail, just listen to the representatives of commuters. It is unfortunate and it is a shame to propose, accept and endorse the closure of the windows without a comprehensive plan of action, because it is now clear that a comprehensive plan of action will be put in place, we have not seen anything so far. It is really mocking the public, it is mocking public transport when you are a minister and we have all really relied on your actions to develop public transport, alternative transport and today, after only 120 days, we can only be disappointed. It is true that I come from a region with a lower population density, namely the province of Luxembourg. I know that profitability is less important in this type of region than in the larger centres, and today, like others, I clearly say that the windows are closed. Tomorrow too few people will be judged to be on the train and lines will be removed, stations will be removed while the opposite must be done. And now, Minister, you amaze me because I knew your convictions and I really expected other actions on your part than those of the last fifteen days. I hope you get together so we can have another operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I have four more elements of reply. Firstly, governance. Mr Vandenbroucke and Mrs Hanus have already referred to it. It must be clear that a board of directors has a different function than a parliament. I would like to emphasise that distinction explicitly once again. The Governing Board has a clear mandate to do the best it can within the framework created by politics. That distinction is crucial and I think that should be emphasised. It's true, I know people there, but they're sitting there for a different purpose than we are. That must be made clear. I think that perhaps a committee meeting should be devoted to the concept of governance in order to explain clearly the 1991 law. I think that this is going to be a bit lightly, as if politics were driving what is happening on the boards of directors. Secondly, you referred to the public service contract. That's right, you have to work with an old management agreement of 2008, also to our frustration. Since 2008, this is the third wave of window closures. The previous closures were in 2012 and 2014. There is therefore an urgent need for a new management agreement or public service contract that you are working on. If I have understood correctly, there should be a publication of the specifications that are the first step this month. Can we expect that soon? It would be good to get a signal that this is progressing, because the public service contract is crucial. You said from the beginning that you would record this. You wouldn't let that drag on as long as you did in the past. That would be a good thing. A third element, the provision of services. Recently there were commercials on the radio of the banking sector or the insurance sector; I'm not quite sure where it came from. They came up with the slogan: "A man, at last." They responded to the feeling that human contact is still possible with some institutions, with some companies, with some service providers. I think it should not be forgotten that a human service should also remain possible within a reasonable radius around the place of residence or the station. I wonder if enough alternative slopes have been studied. I imagine a station may not be open every day. We are now going to offer services for two to three days in a transitional period, but I can imagine that on one line the services in the stations will be alternated: one day in one station and the other day in the other station. If this is sufficiently well-known in the community, at least on that day one can contact someone, additional to the digital service, which is not bad, that may be said. For example, one can have human contact one day a week at the local station, for information, because it is often more about information than about the purchase of a ticket. The alternative and human way in which this service can be provided may and should be explored further. Finally, we now have to make a difference in the station buildings themselves. In the past, I have spoken on a number of occasions about cooperation with local authorities. It has also been discussed several times here. When it was announced last week that the offices would close, a number of articles were immediately published in the media from local administrations, ships and mayors. They immediately had proposals and ideas on how to fill that out and how to provide a certain service there. So they can make sure there's human presence in the stations. In the past, this will was often there, but there was too little will on the part of SNCB or the thresholds were set too high to effectively achieve such forms of cooperation. It is looking forward to the results of the commitment that is now being made, to see if a step forward is being taken here. Too often those stations that were once built with community money are regarded as pure assets that have to raise as much money as possible. We have to look at them in a different way, for the local communities. Your comparison with neighbouring countries is, of course, correct. In the Netherlands a whole debate is currently under way on the reduction of the number of counters or stations with counters to 15, for the whole of the Netherlands. That is very little, but there too the debate on the manning of these stations and the human presence is raging to the full. There are many more stations there with human presence. That's crucial there. In Switzerland, more than 90% of tickets are sold digitally, yet 160 stations are equipped with a human service, with ticket counters. With one example you always have the other example. I'll just give it to you. It is, of course, choices that must be made. I look forward to working with the local authorities, and how these permanent social needs can be met in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u55	Minister, you mentioned in another answer your desire to have a more attractive NBTS. Today, your presentation is, to a large extent, the presentation of the communiqué which was published yesterday by the SNCB, which I explained to you earlier, on the accompanying measures relating to the closure of the 44 windows. You talk about maintaining a presence, but you insist on the role of the communes to be able to do so, while limiting the attractiveness for the communes, since there could be no commercial activities. What is also important in order to have a life in a station is that there is an attraction to go to that station; and why not consider in this case, for example, supporting short circuit initiatives at stations? It would perhaps be a constructive path, which would allow those who invest in the short circuit to find interesting areas of work, without a doubt. You're talking about extending the model to other stations. You are talking about subcontracting to bpost the issue of Mobib cards, certificates or other. But are you aware, Minister, in the communes where you remove or reduce the stations, of the state of the postal services that still exist today? It is important to stress this: here too, we have a public service which is being reorganized and which reduces its presence. As I said earlier, I was afraid the carrots would be cooked. Obviously, in any case on decisions, they are well cooked, and they lead to a grimace soup, for my part. You haven't changed. You're postponing. For me, this decision denies 30,000 commuters, 77 full-time equivalents. It denies 81 communes, including the municipalities of Huy and Waremme, which I asked you about. It also denies, in my view, the role of a public service which must be more than a guarantee of safety at railway stations, more than anyone who opens the doors. A public service is a service that guarantees listening, which fights the digital divide, which allows access to all our citizens. Here, I hear you again refer to the argument that it is the Board of Directors of SNCB. I'm saying, you can't say that! You cannot, on the one hand, clear your customs by pointing out the responsibility of the Board of Directors of SNCB, and at the same time, since yesterday, communicate in unison with Ms Dutordoir to say that you have found a positive answer. No, that's not possible! You are involved in this decision from the moment you communicate about the solutions you believe you have brought. I note that we pay more: paying car parks in Huy, Waremme soon, bike boxes, more paying tickets, and besides that, we pay more but the service will be less tomorrow. It's my fear as a municipalist, for my borough. I have no doubt that Melissa Hanus will be careful to conduct the fight on behalf of the Socialist Group in Parliament, which she has been doing for many months since she was there. Because this fight will have to be waged. Minister, choosing is giving up. It doesn't matter if it's you or SNCB, but this choice is a real renunciation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u56	Mr. President, I never give up. Minister, I am amazed at the lack of answers to many questions. Nothing about the precise criteria for closing one window and not another! Nothing about the fact that you were informed as early as October 7th of this case! Nothing about the fact that you had the list of 44 stations as early as November 10! This is extremely important information. I recall that the members of the board of directors did not have it in order not to politicize the file. Nor is there anything about the fact that your firm approved the SNCB press release! Nothing about half-truths or lies, or even a word of apology! After all the tintamarre triggered, the absence of a precise answer to Parliament... that is not normal! You have to stop breaking down like on the radio this morning, behind the argument of the absence of a green administrator on the board of directors by insidiously omitting to say that you have a green commissioner on that same board of directors – even if I admit you recognized it, for once. He attended everything: November 27th, December 18th; January 25th, without any objection, Minister! I hear you say he doesn't have a deliberative voice. The string is a little big, Mr Gilkinet! He had, of course, the opportunity to initiate a dialogue. And if it wasn't him, it was up to you to do so since you had been aware of the case since October and, unlike the board members, you had a list of the 44 stations involved as early as November 10, two weeks before the decision anyway! So you had real room for manoeuvre. That's the reality of the facts! Your attitude and your narrative in plenary or here is unacceptable. The lie, it was by omission, the half-truths used to hide the other half of the truth cannot exist in the relations between the government and Parliament. With regard to the new agreement, adopted yesterday by the AC, let me be surprised – and that is an understatement! With aplomb, you had demanded in plenary to review the list of windows and the application of a moratorium. What did you get? None of this! Only a list of good intentions. That's what you just told us. In one week, you returned your jacket twice: first, under the pressure of your party president; then, yesterday, because of your inability to have this decision reviewed. This is not surprising, and you are right! When you talk about the general context and you are talking about – and these are your terms – "some parliamentarians who do not know the 1991 law", by specifying that the SNCB is an autonomous public enterprise, you should have remembered it yourself, Minister, before making these insane declarations in plenary and, of course, undergoing a disavowal in advance. Minister, stop putting on the costumes, sometimes from Pinocchio, sometimes from Calimero; endorse that of minister! A minister takes responsibility, including in difficult decisions, for example when considering whether or not to keep a counter in a station. There is no dogma in this area – here I join my colleague from Sp.a. A minister takes on his responsibilities and does not loosen up on others or on a so-called CA. In this sad saga, unfortunately, I find, and I must regret it, the absence of the smallest shadow of personal fine. A newspaper called you, minister, "the green guru". In this case, Mr Gilkinet, for you, for us, as long as the wind turns!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answers. To join my colleague Hervé Rigot, I confirm that "the carrots are cooked". [[I heard that book of good intentions.]] Nevertheless, you did not answer my questions. You didn't give any details about the stations, but I can understand that. To return to Ans, the decision which was taken without agreement or explanation is all the less understandable since the supply of trains will be increased by 4.7%, i.e. almost a thousand additional trains by 2023. Although the current trend is digital, 20% of travellers still use the services of a ticket office. Equal treatment must be maintained at all stations, regardless of location, regardless of the public, whatever the means. No one should stay at the edge of the road. In addition, the removal of windows will be detrimental to many workers. We are talking about 77 full-time equivalents that will be removed. This downsizing is incomprehensible at such a difficult time. Almost every day, and you know very well, we are witnessing the announcement of new waves of layoffs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for the figures and the criteria. I said it in plenary last week. For our group, an efficient government is important, but that does not mean for us, even if it is an autonomous public undertaking, that SNCB is only seeking profits and returns. We stress the importance of autonomous efficient management and the need for a clear management agreement. Indeed, it dates back to 2008, and I, like other colleagues, welcome the commitment that a new management agreement will be drawn up. But that management agreement should take greater account of the traveller. The traveller must be at the centre and the workers must be paid attention. Despite the accompanying measures, I continue to regret the way in which the decision to close the 44 points of contact was taken. At the same time, I agree with those Members who insist on taking advantage of the opportunity and thinking about the future of these stations. Mr Van den Bergh, I have heard your fine words here, which I did not know. In the end, it is about humanizing the stations. We must put the travellers at the centre. Our group also believes that this is extremely important. SNCB has missed opportunities here to start the conversation with the municipal authorities and with its travelers. That kind of consultation, talking to people for whom decisions are made, is a hallmark of the 21st century, and that's where we have to go. Not talking about travelers, but travelers. Minister, I have already suggested the following idea, out of the box, when discussing your policy paper, and I dare to put it back on the table. Can we not give the travel organizations a seat on the board of directors? Maybe that's worth considering.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u59	Mr President, Minister, I am quite disappointed with the elements that you have communicated today, which do nothing more than the statements that have already been made. You said you should have made it clearer. That's for sure – and still today! We have no answers, no guarantees, but just a lesson. SNCB is an autonomous public undertaking. We know that. But it's mostly public. We know there's a management contract. The AC makes the decisions. We also know that, and we wonder why there is a minister. The supervisory authority does not impose, but dialogue. You add that we must have it in mind. There are several ways to dialogue. Is an arm of iron one? You finish by telling us that there will be no dry layoffs. Of course we hope so. Between utopianism and action, there is now fog. We parliamentarians need answers, guarantees, voluntarism, ambition and empathy for the citizens, commuters, staff and local authorities who are at the front. So we really need to have more information for more certainty about the attitude of SNCB. We will therefore have to have a cadastre and real prospects, without smoking, in order to have financial guarantees for participatory projects and improvement of the living environment. The pilot projects, at this stage, are of the order of the gadget. There has been enough experience for several years to move on to concrete action, immediately, with SNCB, starting with stations that have been closed in recent years and are real cankers. While we are experiencing an unprecedented health crisis with obvious social, economic and psychological impacts, I hope that your close bond of trust with SNCB will allow you to monitor on a daily basis the evolution of these accompanying measures and their impact on users; even if you do regular assessments in these closed places in the coming months. For my part, I tell you, I remain absolutely distrustful.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u60	Mr. Thiébaut told me he couldn't take part in the replicas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u61	First of all, I respond to the presentation by s.pa. MEP Vandenbroucke. I have been a trade unionist for 20 years, I have stood up for the employees day and night for 20 years, and I will continue to do so. I have now been elected to Parliament to do the same, to defend the people, both the staff and the users. So he certainly doesn't have any lessons to teach me in that area. Next, I support the Ecolo-Groen proposal, because our party Navetteurs.be and TrainTramBus also want to be represented on the board of directors, together with the ordinary workers. That's high time. When I hear the debate here, it strengthens me in the belief that the board apparently has no connection with the ordinary people. In fact, the Management Board has opted for profitability rather than for the public service of rail, ordinary people and staff. Mr Minister, we are very disappointed, because for us a station without a counter is like a bus booth, where people can no longer go with their questions. It is not because there will be a shop that people there will be able to deal with their problems. We therefore continue to work for the presence of a point of contact who can help people, and we are in favour of extending the role of the point of contact even in the field of public services. That is perfectly possible and that is why we have tabled a motion. I hope that we will have the support of many Members, all the more so now that I see in the debate how many committee members do not agree to the closure of the points of contact and are angry about that. Mr. Secretary, you say there are stewards there. But are those the clerks who themselves will have to accompany their resignation afterwards? It is clear to us that we will continue to fight to keep the counters open. We believe that the provision of services to the public is important. SNCB provides a public service to the population and should be extended rather than phased out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u62	We have a fairly serene debate where everyone speaks out. It has to stay that way. Mr Vandebroucke asked for an intervention for a personal fact. I give you the floor briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u63	Mrs Vindevoghel, all due respect for what you have done in the past and for what you think you should do in Parliament, but on the one hand you say that you share the concerns that you share with all the groups, on the other hand you and your party constantly give the impression that our political parties on the board of directors have taken that decision. Which isn't true! We don't have a seat in that. These are independent directors of an autonomous public undertaking. Of two things one, either you join us constructively and stop telling those lies, or you continue to do so, but then I will stop debating with you. It disturbs me immeasurably.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u64	Let's try to stay there in the polemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u65	Mr President, I do not want to obstruct the fight for reddishness.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u66	Don't set the fire, Mr. Roggeman. Give your reply and express the position of the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. However, it is a very strange spectacle here. First, you defended the board's decision against the criticism. Afterwards, you joined the criticism, you plopped for it and you dropped your partners. You've tried to break into autonomy. Now you are defending the same decision here again, hiding behind the autonomy, which you saw only five days ago. Changing positions twice in a week is something special. The conclusion is that the story is a very strong dent in your credibility vis-à-vis SNCB, which is your partners to whom you broke your given word, just as in your credibility towards the Chamber. After all, the conclusion of the story is that your statements have little value. Without the agreement of SNCB, it will be a lot harder for us Members of Parliament to take your word for it. We have learned that Mrs Dutordoir has the last word when it comes to the railways and that you must follow them. In all your statements in the future, we will have to ask ourselves whether or not your words have been passed on to the SNCB summit and whether or not they are in line with the will and wishes of SNCB. It will be difficult to assess and evaluate your policy in this way. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, what does that mean for the coalition? Let us be honest, there were very many speakers and very many speakers from the majority parties. I note five oral questions on the subject of PS members, five oral questions on the subject and explanations of the members of the MR, including a former minister, which is not nothing. Who from the outside is following our meeting this afternoon could ask who exactly is opposition and who is a majority. After all, that border has become flou here this afternoon. I hear a lot of critical questions and comments today. Just so we're clear, they're justified. I am pleased that Members of the majority also take their parliamentary control function seriously and go into the closure of the points of contact thoroughly. This is happening not only here but also in the press. Mr De Maegd, you are taking the lead in this respect in particular, and I appreciate your critical spirit. You spoke again today about the Minister's lies, and I wonder what the consequences will be. If you think the Minister is lying, what consequences does that have? Your party chairman at RTBF gave an opinion on the Minister's resignation. Does your group maintain confidence in Minister Gilkinet or not? In any case, it is clear that the breach of confidence between SNCB and the Minister has also proved to be a breach of confidence in the coalition. I very much look forward to the consequences of this, because other parties were right to ask very critical questions. If the leaf is turned around now, one goes to the order of the day and next week just press the green button for everything, then the question arises as to what that means for your credibility. This not only affects the credibility of the Minister, but also the credibility of the PS and MR. Something tells me that was not the intention of this afternoon's speeches. I am therefore very interested in the outcome of the debate, including the relations in the coalition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, even if it was rather limited in my questions. I understand that many committee members in the debate are asking for the windows to be kept open, which is difficult to understand from our point of view. After all, in my view, there is little good governance in keeping desks open for a limited number of tickets per day. I am still convinced that SNCB has made a good decision on this matter. It's a little creative solution, though. The organisation of train points, for example, would mean a win-win situation for all of us and for the passengers. We all want it to go forward for travellers. In addition, train points also represent progress for SNCB and for local entrepreneurship. It is a good start to consult with the local authorities, but I am still very hungry about the train points, which prove to be useful to other public transport companies. I am convinced that if we develop train points, the stations will certainly become humanized, as Mr Van den Bergh and Mr Buyst have already mentioned. Furthermore, I am naturally pleased with your description of SNCB as an autonomous public undertaking. I therefore hope that SNCB's decisions will no longer lead to such problems between you and the railway company and that you will not try to organise the day-to-day operation, but that we will soon be able to find in a management agreement the objectives to be set out by SNCB. I would also like to ask that we, as committee members, be able to help shape this so that, together with good ideas, we can lead SNCB to the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u69	Minister, thank you for your answers. Without a new management contract, SNCB is a railway undertaking whose trajectory will be difficult to change. However, this is necessary in the interests of the users, who must take precedence. The basic decision was bad. It was necessary to seek to change it by all means and this was done with progress in strengthening commitments on dialogue with municipalities, waiting room schedules, openness to society, and user support. This is not enough, but I hope, like my colleague Vandenbroucke, that this will bode well for a break with past policies that will actually have to be realized in 2022 through the public service contract. There is a dialogue between the railway undertaking, workers and users until then. The risk of breach of trust, it is first of all there – with two necessary beacons for the continuation: sincerity and humility. In this regard, I deplore some of the interventions that are aimed at man and at polemics. What a picture of this Parliament! Users deserve much better than this little political game of some party members who have past and present responsibilities, overwhelming, in the decisions taken. We talked about the AC. I'm not going to go back. We can also talk about how the SNCB was pressed like a lemon under the previous legislature. "Let the looting of public money be stopped!" This is a statement by the previous Minister of Mobility justifying two billion savings on the backs of SNCB and workers. The same person today deplores the closure of the Jurbise window! Frankly! We talked about the stations of Huy-Waremme but Statte's station has been closed for twenty years. Who has been fighting in the last twenty years to defend its openness to users when it's cold? Who? No one! I didn't hear anyone. Just a cascade of silences from those same parties that have exercised and are now exercising responsibilities. Let's hire all SNCB users for the future! Yes, but let's leave the hypocrisy to dock, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u70	Mr. De Maegd is asking me for a personal reaction after Mr. Roggeman's intervention. The exercise consists of questions followed by the Minister's answers and a reply to the government. In principle, this is not a dialogue between Members. If you have been mentioned by name, I have no problem but remain in a general debate of ideas!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u71	Mr President, in reply to Mr Roggeman, I think it is good that Parliament is doing its job of monitoring the executive. It's all to his honor, because it's one of his missions. Of course, I hear Mr. Parent talking about personal attacks. There are no personal attacks, Mr. Parent. You must have been following the debate badly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u72	A personal fact is a personal fact. You weren't quoted by Mr. Parent. Everyone can express their views on past policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u73	Mr President, to be very clear, it is not the Ecolo Party that I am aiming at, it is the minister and his culpable approximations. To speak of a guilty approximation, he referred me to the 1991 law. However, I would like to say that section 162nonies of this 1991 Act provides that the SNCB is subject to the Minister's supervisory power, which therefore had the possibility of setting aside the decision in question within a period – I read – of 14 days from the same day as the time limit referred to in the first paragraph. Therefore, in this case, minister, your Commissioner should have notified you before December 3, as he was in a position to do so. You had the opportunity, Minister, to set aside the decision by December 11. I therefore refer you to the 1991 Act to try to understand it better and to control it. Indeed, to teach Parliament without mastering this law is a bit problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u74	Mr De Maegd, you have asked me to speak for a personal fact, following a speech by Mr Roggeman. There was no question of making a new reply to the minister. I'm a democrat. I like the debates. However, an intervention for a personal fact is not a second reply. This incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u75	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, the interventions of my colleagues were relatively complete. I just want to say that the Binchois are used to saying that their city is the center of the world. This is, of course, an anecdote, but today we can see that the Binche station, as is the case with all the other stations concerned, is not at all at the centre of SNCB's concerns. To complete this famous list of railway vocabulary, it can be said that some of the users who are not concerned with digital "are left on the dock". On the one hand, users are encouraged to use public transport, but on the other hand, this type of measure or this type of announcement does not go at all in this direction. Today, I would like us to think about all these people. Indeed, I wonder where they will be able to buy their ticket, how they will do it. We can't deny that digital divide.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u76	It was already clear, Mr Minister, that confidence in yourself and in your duties had already been violated before the start of this committee. Not only between yourself and Parliament, but also with regard to civil society, local authorities and SNCB: for almost everyone, confidence has been violated. You have managed with great pride to confirm this mistrust in this animated committee meeting. I would like to say in the middle whether I should be happy with that from the opposition, but you have continued to be concerned, including the criteria for closing the stations. You did not reply to that at all. Presumably you cannot answer that, perhaps you do not want to answer it or is it a combination of both? Let me give you two examples from my region, the stations of Ninove and Ronse. Ninove is a city with 40,000 inhabitants and about 1,700 commuters a day, in an extremely unsafe station environment. This aspect has not yet been taken into account. Manned stations and counters also provide social control and can create a sense of security. At the Ninove station the counters will also be closed. Ronse is an isolated city in the Flemish Ardennes, on the language border. It is also a starting or finishing station of the line Ronse-Oudenaarde-Gent. So we're dealing with a head office here without physically manned counters. You cannot tell me what criteria the decision is based on to close the booths in this station. Moreover, Ronse is not only a special social-demographic city, it is also a socio-economic city. After all, Ronse is the poorest city in East Flanders. You cannot explain on the ground that the points of contact are closed, in an isolated region. The same applies to Ninove, but I could quote a number of other stations. You cannot explain and I cannot explain on the basis of which criteria certain points of contact are closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u77	What we have heard is rather deplorable. We note that decisions have been made in some sort of informal functional contact between SNCB and the Minister for a long time, that these decisions are not taken by the minister who now holds the position and that they are irreversible, in such a way that the 44 windows in these 44 stations will be removed. Of course you can glaze as far as you can see – like Perrette – on the widespread milk, but the facts are there and I believe that all the mayors concerned will be in complete disarray in view of this situation. I heard Josy Arens and others say it very clearly. All of this leaves me with a bitter taste and I think that monitoring must take place on all the accompanying and compensatory measures that have been taken without any empathy, as Mr Gilkinet said earlier. I hope that we can come back to this Parliament within a few weeks to see to what extent they are implemented, how the consultation with the mayors affected by these closures is going to go, what specific measures in which municipalities and how all this is actually moving forward on the ground – always with regard to the number of passengers travelling to these stations, in order to see whether the measures have an effect to stabilise this number or on the contrary, if unfortunately they fail to stabilise it, if we need to take further measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for your answers, even if you not only minimize your responsibility in this matter and in this decision, but you do not answer our questions at all. Finally, you are just repeating what you said to us in plenary last Thursday or as part of your statement this Monday. You tell us that the windows are finally closed because of too little activity – except that, in our view, such a criterion cannot be valid when we know that the opening hours of these windows have been reduced continuously since 2015. You also tell us, with your mouth in mind, that you are for more humane stations, more punctual trains – except that here too, you do not guarantee that the 60 million euros that will be saved will be used to compensate for the closure of these windows and thus to realize these projects. You came, on the other hand, in the space of just four months to a decision that disgusted people from taking the train. How do you encourage people to take the train if you support savings measures rather than a real plan for the future for our stations and counters? I am thinking in particular of the children who take the train, alone, to go to school, the elderly who are not comfortable with machines or smartphones, the people under the administration of goods that cannot use bank cards – and therefore, the distributors –, the illiterate, the women who are 30% not dared to take the train because they are victims of harassment – we had talked about this with you, minister, at a previous meeting. And so for all these people, we should have reviewed this list of windows to be closed and put in place a moratorium in the meantime. To minimize the severity of these closures, you quote a series of measures that are just powder in the eye, as they will never replace the public service that the station counters are providing today. A distributor, steward, trade or association will never allow commuters to renew their subscriptions. I am thinking, for example, of the new Brussels subscription (??) or subscriptions paid by the employer. They will never allow to grant discounts for large families or to inform about connections, the cancellation of a train, when one has its GSM which no longer has a network, battery, when the wifi package is exceeded, when the distributor is out of order. Not to mention that these distributors are often outdoors, in the cold and in the dark, in winter or illegible when in the sun. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, I hear about regrets, double speeches and war against this decision. It is true that you are not, ladies and gentlemen, administrators of SNCB. But you're not going to make me believe that your party offices did not deal with this on the eve of the GC this Tuesday, or the GC that endorsed the decision in November to tell your administrators how to vote. I am thinking of the four PS administrators, the two MR administrators or the CD&V administrators. So this case deserves that everyone in their place should assume their responsibilities, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, we have had a democratic debate where everyone has expressed his or her sensitivity and opinions on a sensitive and important subject. We must welcome our debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u80	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Maria Vindevoghel and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Maria Vindevoghel and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - whereas SNCB is a public transport company, - whereas the points of contact at the stations are of great social importance; - whereas 77 jobs will be lost when 44 train counters are closed; - whereas the participation of the social partners and travellers in this decision is non-existent; - whereas a large proportion of travellers are low-literate, - considering the criticism of this decision from civil society; - in view of the current health crisis and the general reduction of public services; - considering the feeling of insecurity of passengers at an abandoned station, asks the government - to keep all points of contact at SNCB stations open; - to look for new tasks adapted to the social role of the counter operators; - to keep the service to train passengers optimal and thus not to cut the opening hours of the counters." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Maria Vindevoghel and reads as follows: " The House, having heard the inquiry of Maria Vindevoghel and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - Whereas SNCB is a public transport company; - Whereas railway stations are of major social interest; Whereas the closure of 44 railway stations will result in the loss of 77 jobs; Whereas the social partners and travellers did not participate in this decision; - Whereas a large proportion of travellers are poorly literate; - in the light of the criticisms made by civil society against this decision; - in view of the current health crisis and the general disconnection of the public service; - in view of the feeling of insecurity felt by travellers in a desert station; asks the government - keep all counters open at SNCB stations; - to seek new tasks adapted to the social role of shopkeepers; - to keep rail passenger service at an optimal level and, therefore, not to make cuts in the opening hours of the windows; A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Kim Buyst. A simple motion was tabled by Kim Buyst. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u81	Mr President, Minister, a car dealer who wants to renew his commercial dealership plate must be able to demonstrate that he has sold at least 12 vehicles to end users in the last year. You will not deny that 2020 was an exceptional year. The sale of vehicles has also been affected by measures to combat the coronavirus. Online is not an alternative for the automotive sector. That can be done for a book or for a coat, but for a vehicle that is much less obvious. That is why I have two questions. First of all, are you thinking of a solution for those car dealers who exceptionally failed to reach the 12 required sales by 2020 so that they can still get a renewal of their merchant plate? What solution do you have in mind? Secondly, the car dealers who specialise in the purchase and sale of vehicles to fellow traders could not obtain renewal in the past. The sales had to be made to an end user. However, your predecessor told me at the time that a review of commercial plates would come into force in October 2020, which would make it possible to deliver the merchant plate to wholesalers. I referred you to my written question on this matter. My question is as follows. Has this review entered into force as planned? If not, when will that happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u82	Mr President, Mr Raskin, 2020 was indeed an exceptional year in more than one respect. No sector has been spared from the difficult ordeal we have endured. Hopefully, from 1 January 2021, an adaptation of the regulation of commercial plates will enter into force. The months of January and February 2021 may be included in the calculation of the 12 vehicles sold to end-users. January is particularly crucial for the automotive sector. The extra time can be used to ensure that car dealers do not lose their commercial merchant plate. According to Article 12 of the new review of commercial plates, the merchant plate can be used by retailers in the wholesale and retail trade. The wholesalers are therefore a new category that can enjoy the merchant plate. However, the fact that wholesalers are now authorised has no impact on the calculation of the twelve invoices audited by the FPS Finance. The end-user rule remains unchanged compared to the current system. The FPS Finance only takes into account the invoices produced by the legal seller. The intermediary does not have an invoice in his name as he is not the seller. He receives only a simple commission and is therefore not the actual seller of the vehicles. The current and new regulations clarify this. I quote: "When each dealer plate is renewed, the vehicle dealers must have sold at least 12 vehicles during the 12 months preceding the date of the check, carried out by the board responsible for value added tax." Therefore, intermediaries are not vehicle dealers as they do not sell the vehicle.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u83	Mr Minister, from your answer to my first question, I would like to point out that there is some understanding as the months of January and February of 2021 may be taken into account to determine whether 12 vehicles are sold. I cannot immediately reflect on the extent to which this meets the question, but at least you show some kindness. Thank you for that. As far as the answer to the second part is concerned, you said that the revision of the rules would mean that both wholesalers and retailers would be able to obtain a merchant plate. That was the answer I wanted to hear from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u84	My questions are as follows, minister. How many files are now blocked by air constraints and what is the cumulative power of these blocked folders? I am, of course, talking about issues relating to the development of wind farms. In what timing can we hope to have feedback on the tests of the 'Windfarm' filters? What prospects for frozen wind projects near Florennes? Are you considering working with the Minister of Energy or the Minister of the Environment, or both, as part of the roadmap monitoring so that the latter also takes into account our country's climate and energy emergencies?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u85	Mr Parent, the deployment of facilities to increase the production of renewable energy, and therefore the proportion of green energy in relation to fossil fuels, is a matter of great importance to me, as you know. In response to your questions, since 2017, skeyes has received nearly 1,500 requests for notices regarding the construction of wind turbines. Only 7% received a negative opinion due to aviation safety constraints. 80% of applications received positive feedback and 13% are still in processing, with some very complex files requiring in-depth study. This year, Keyes launched the deployment of the new radar strategy in synergy with Defence. The first phase of the monitoring strategy consists of the installation of Windfarm Fighters on the primary radars of Ostend, Brussels and Florennes. This facility will be completed by the end of the year. The aim of the WFF is to reduce the effects of wind turbines on radars. After thorough testing, skeyes will be able to determine, in consultation with Defence, where additional wind turbines can be placed near radars. In the medium term, new technologies will be installed to replace some of the radars. A wide-cover multi-later antenna network will be deployed by skeyes to reduce constraints for wind turbines. Each case is currently being dealt with taking into account its specific location and the latest technological developments. Skeyes continues to pay all necessary attention to these files. Skeyes is currently waiting for the first observational results on the effects of WFF. It is indeed important for me that a cross-sectional synergy be created in various areas related to mobility between the Minister of Energy and the Environment and myself, particularly on the issue of opening up airspace to wind turbine development. Skeyes are expected to actively address all issues arising from these stakeholders, both from the private sector and government. To date, skeyes has confirmed to me that I have not received any concrete requests from the Ministers of Energy or the Environment, but of course remains fully prepared to actively seek solutions to support the environmental policy of governments. This matter is of great concern to me and will be the subject of special attention in the preparation of the management contract for skeyes in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u86	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. I welcome your proactivity on this subject, but also the role that skeyes intends to play and is already playing in relation to development and energy policy. That's extremely positive. Further prospects are expected under the management contract, if any. You underlined the role that energy and environment ministers could play. I believe that this subject, given the need to speed up our country's energy transition, will have to be addressed in other committees for greater coherence. Skeyes should be encouraged to go even further in this proactive policy for the development of renewable energies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u87	Mr Minister, the powers of authorised signalers in cycling races........................................................................................................................................................................................... In other words, the response of the signalers is time and place-bound. However, there is sometimes a discussion about the precise competence of the signalers. Hence my questions In what cases, other than Article 3 of the Road Code, should the road user follow the instructions of citizens acting in traffic regulation? To what extent should a road user who is stopped by a signaler and then sees the closing car of the cycling race pass, continue to follow the instruction of the signaler? Does a citizen, whether or not in the equipment of a signaler, who prevents traffic from being permitted, commit the crime as defined in Article 406 of the Criminal Code, at least within the meaning of the last paragraph of this Article? If not, on what basis can this person be sanctioned? What are the possible criminal consequences for a road user who ignores the instructions of a competent signaler following the passage of the closing car of a cycling race? Can the police ask a citizen, whether or not in possession of a three-colored bracelet and a disc bearing the traffic sign C3, outside a cycling race or any other circumstance described in Article 41 of the Road Code, to arrange traffic, while the police themselves are not on the spot or remain on the scene? If so, in what circumstances and in what form could it be possible for such action to be contrary to third parties?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u88	Mr Raskin, first of all, it may be authorised military escorting military columns, authorised supervisors helping children to cross, signalers employed at cultural, sporting or tourist events, road captains employed to guide groups of cyclists or motorcyclists, group leaders accompanying groups of pedestrians or riders, yard supervisors and supervisors or traffic coordinators of exceptional transport. Road users must follow the instructions given by those persons. In order to stop traffic, a disc showing the traffic sign C3 shall be used to prevent access in both directions for each driver.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Secondly, signalers give clues to ensure safety at cycling races. I believe that this includes potentially dangerous situations that are directly the result of the cycling race. For example, if the admission of all traffic following the passage of the closure vehicle could lead to dangerous situations, a somewhat longer action by the signaler would seem appropriate. This often happens in practice. Behind the closing vehicle is usually a long winch of vehicles, so it may be appropriate to stop the vehicles coming from a side street a little longer. The traffic rules are clear: road users must follow the instructions of the signal providers. Let us not go down the road of questioning the legitimacy of a given indication. The task of signalers is already difficult enough, and unfortunately they do not have to rely on much respect. Thirdly, I invite you to question my colleague, the Minister of Justice. He will be able to consult the College of Attorneys General on the criminal classification of this kind of behaviour. In my opinion, such behaviour could possibly be regarded as a violation of Article 7 of the Traffic Regulations. In reply to your fourth question, I can tell you that this is a third-degree infringement, for which an immediate collection of EUR 174 or a fine of EUR 30 to 500 is possible, to be multiplied by the amounts of the fines. The answer to your fifth question is no.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u89	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive and detailed reply. I'll read it again quietly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u90	Mr President, in order to ease the burden of the agenda, I would like to propose that three of my questions be converted to written questions, in accordance with the usual arrangements. It is a question of questions. 55013335C, 55013428C and 55013972C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u91	Mr President, in view of the late hour, I shall confine myself to specific questions. I have already outlined the context in detail. First of all, has there been any discussion on this situation or on that dossier over the past year between the city of Bilzen and SNCB? Secondly, are you the idea as outlined, affectionate? Do you think that a direct connection for cyclists and pedestrians offers effective benefits in terms of road safety and inciting a choice of bicycle? Thirdly, are you prepared to argue such an idea to SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u92	Mr Raskin, first of all, there has been no consultation with SNCB over the past year. Secondly, I understand that a link for slow road users would bring great added value to the planned residential development on the new street and encourage the use of the bicycle. On the other hand, the value added for the train traveller is very limited according to SNCB. On the one hand, the Bilzen station already has a pedestrian and cyclist tunnel. On the other hand, it is to overcome height difference for a bridge over the tracks quickly 7 to 8 meters. This means that bike-friendly slopes at 4 % to this bridge will have a huge length-impact of over 175 meters and space-impact on both sides of the tracks. With the planned integration of the bike highway on the side of the center, this will have a huge impact on the space in the station environment. This needs to be properly investigated according to SNCB. Thirdly, there has been no consultation on this matter between SNCB and the city administration of Bilzen in the past year. In my political conviction, I am of course in favour of any initiative aimed at improving cycling or walking links between residential areas and a railway station environment. I am also in favour of initiatives for cycling and walking links between residential areas and city centres. To support this initiative or such initiatives, the focus should be on dialogue between local authorities and SNCB in order to achieve a win-win situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u93	Minister, that was a very clear answer, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic378x.u94	Colleagues and Minister, thank you for participating in our work. We have had debates of great density. The meeting is adjourned.
