ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u1	Mr President, I withdrew this question because it was discussed last time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u2	Maybe Mrs. Van Camp has new elements. I certainly don't want to deprive her of the right to ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u3	Mr President, I would like to keep my question. Mr Secretary of State, there has also been a meeting of the nuclear cabinet today and I would have liked to have had a state of affairs. For the rest, I refer to the question tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u4	Colleagues, as Mrs Daems said, we have dealt with this recently. I would like to give you some information that some people may have missed at the meeting on 18 June. The note I submitted to the government proposed a set of legislative measures to further develop the policy of return in the area of legislation. That whole of measures must be discussed within the government before I can propose it here in the Chamber. If I were to discuss this openly first, I might end up frustrated in another legislature and ventilate it. I will conduct the negotiations where that should be done, within the government, with the utmost respect for my partners in the government. That is not going to happen in the media. Mrs Van Camp, you must not put words in my mouth that I have never spoken, I have never spoken for or against a mandatory test. I have always presented the facts in an objective manner and have never been tempted to add my opinion to them. After all, I am not in opposition, I have a policy in a delicate and sensitive department, where there are no results by sharing views with the band in the lead. I'm sure your party knows that by now. The reality is that a mandatory corona test is currently not legally possible. Whether I want to change this, you have already been able to understand what you have read in the media. We in the government are working very hard on this, in the right way, and hope to achieve results.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, I certainly heard your reply on 18 June, but as I said, I would have liked an update. I take it from your reply that you have still not been able to put your draft legislation on, among other things, entry into residence and the compulsory corona test on expulsion on the table of the government. That's obvious to me. That is the answer I wanted, but that does not make me happy with the answer. You have submitted a first package of measures. The European directive on student migration has already been transposed, but besides that you have been working for almost a year and we have not yet been able to see any legislative initiative from you. You had made a lot of plans and made promises when presenting your policy paper. Today we hear that you have put the work around the residence in the fridge again because several of your coalition partners do not support it. When we made the proposal to introduce the mandatory corona test in an expulsion, because it is important in that exclusive expulsion policy, you said that you did not want to do anything about it. If it's on the government table now, it'll certainly please us. As with the entry into residence, or the right of visitation, as you baptized it, we regret to note that your attempt has been stranded, even before this came on the table, by your coalition partners who do not want to know about it. Hopefully you will be able to work on it in the next few weeks or months. We will certainly continue to follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, on 15 June Ghent University published a study on sexual violence in Belgium, including against applicants for international protection. Turns out what? As many as 61 percent of respondents experienced sexual violence in the last 12 months. Eight percent of this is an attempted rape. Remarkable is the share men have in statistics. Unlike general investigations, male refugees are more often victims of sexual violence, especially minor offences. Female refugees are more often victims of the most serious sexual offences, which is similar to the general findings. The figures on the processing of such traumatic events are equally bad, if not worse. As many as 62 percent never spoke of the sexual violence they experienced. Only two people sought formal help and no one reported any facts to the police. These findings put our noses on the fact that refugees are very vulnerable. Do you recognize the problem? What have you done since your appointment to protect that vulnerable group? Do you consider their protection in Belgium sufficient when lodging a complaint? Why do you think applicants for international protection don't report this to the police?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u7	The figures from the study of Ghent University are indeed problematic and we must make sure that they are reduced. The applicants for international protection are in no way at risk if they lodge a complaint with the police. Of course, many of them have little confidence in public services and agencies such as the police. That is not illogical, given what many of them have experienced in their home country or on their route to Belgium. It is therefore important to continue to raise awareness of asylum seekers about equality between men and women, police as a reliable body and victims' rights. The reception centres work on this through individual guidance, projects such as R-sense with formations for residents, the publication of information in fourteen languages on the fedasilinfo.be website and sanctions for residents who violate the rules in force at the reception centre. The safety of women in reception centres must be guaranteed at all times. For example, a buddy or access to a psychologist can also help create openness to talk about a particular event. You can count on me to continue working on this with my services. Everyone deserves protection from sexual violence, whatever the status of residence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u8	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I am pleased that awareness campaigns have been launched. I will continue to follow the theme. The figures are problematic and it remains to be seen whether awareness campaigns will do their job.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u9	As Mrs Gilson is not present, her question No. 55019094C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u10	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have not yet been hit by an accident on the motorway and I am currently at a gas station. That is why I would like to refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u11	I too wish to refer to my written question, Mr President. I'm not at a gas station (happiness).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u12	In March 2016, the European Union and Turkey adopted a joint declaration in which both parties make commitments to prevent irregular migration flows from Turkey to Europe. The European Union has set up an ad hoc financial mechanism to this end, namely the refugee facilities for Turkey, the FriT (Facility for Refugees in Turkey). This facility consisted of two slices of EUR 3 billion, partly financed by the European budget and partly by the Member States. Belgium participated through the general contribution to the European Union. Today, EUR 4.1 billion of this has been effectively paid out. The latest projects will be completed by mid 2025. I would also like to point out that these funds are not paid directly to the Turkish State but are used in the form of projects carried out by NGOs and international organisations that are closely monitored by the European Commission. In certain circumstances, the Turkish authorities also receive reimbursement for the costs incurred. This system is unlikely to change any more than the one-on-one rule. The Heads of State or Government previously asked the European Commission to make a proposal for continuing financial support for Syrian refugees receiving reception in Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon. This is expected to happen this summer. No decision has yet been taken at the June European Council on the new financing of the facilities. However, the European Commission has already put forward a number of ideas. Within the margins of the resources already provided for in the multiannual financial framework for the European Union's external action, funds could be made available for the reception of refugees in the region, amounting to some EUR 5.7 billion, of which EUR 3.5 billion would be spent on programmes in Turkey. Some 4 million refugees are still being received there. It is therefore in the interests of these refugees, but also in the interests of controlling migratory flows to Europe, that we ensure that Turkey can receive them in a quality way. We all think that reception in the region is very important, and that is why we need to ensure the quality of it. Nor did the European Council discuss the liberalisation of visas for Turkey. For your question on customs union, please refer to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Mrs Van Camp, return cooperation is high on the Commission's agenda. The need to make progress is borne by all Member States. The mechanism under Article 25a of the Visa Code was activated. The Commission conducts diplomatic talks with a number of Member States which do not cooperate or do not cooperate sufficiently with the return. The Commission will therefore make proposals on the basis of the results of these discussions. On the basis of this mechanism, visa measures can be taken, both positive and negative. I have also said in this committee that the deadline is the end of the political year. This is very soon at federal level, but also at European level. We are following this very closely to ensure that Europe continues to increase the pressure it itself has announced. Within the Council, all Member States agree that the EU can and should play a greater role in return cooperation. In order to achieve such cooperation, a broad and sustainable partnership with third countries is envisaged, of which return relations are an integral part. I do not see what is controversial about this, because we are striving for good relations with the third countries so that they can participate in the return. The use of visa policy after evaluation of these partnerships therefore seems to me to be a good thing. An even better thing would, of course, be that we could negotiate the read mission agreements at European level instead of all 27 Member States separately. This weakens the position of the EU and the Member States. One of the main objectives of the new migration pact is to respond to the return problems. To this end, the European Commission has made a range of proposals, both operational and regulatory, aimed at both the internal and external dimensions of disposal policy. Return must be faster and more efficient, including through the support of Frontex, the development of solid partnerships with third countries and the use of levers, if necessary, to encourage our countries to cooperate in the area of read mission. The European Union also aims to develop a genuine return policy with the appointment of a deputy operational director for the return of Frontex, the appointment of a European return coordinator to the European Commission and the establishment of a high-level network for return. Moreover, the European Commission has recently published, in particular in April 2021, its first voluntary return and reintegration strategy. So the issue is finally getting the necessary attention at European level, which is a good thing. The issue has long, far too long, been a pain at European and Belgian level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u13	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, not the deal an sich is controversial, but the conditions. We are, of course, very much in favour of receiving care in our own country and in our own region, if possible. In this way, however, it often goes wrong. We note that the commitments made are mainly fulfilled by the European Union but much less by Turkey itself. Unfortunately, the deal is being used as a blackmail tool, as we have seen in the past. There are not enough guarantees in the new negotiations to prevent this from happening in the future and to ensure that this can no longer happen. I'd like to hear you say that the one-to-one agreement doesn't change anything. However, that agreement is already not being kept. Once again, there are not enough conditions for it to be respected in the future, unlike today. Your reference to the Foreign Minister for the Customs Union is regrettable. This is clearly a package deal. I suspect that you will also be involved in these negotiations or at least have been informed of them. Finally, you once again refer very much to the immigration pact and you make a lot of promises. In the meantime, however, we have been a long way away from your mandate as Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. Unfortunately, we have seen little concrete of these promises.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, in all honesty, I am making the same analysis as Mr Van Langenhove: you make a lot of promises and always give very long answers with a lot of words, but very few actions, which we are really waiting for. As far as return is concerned, you have been referring for months to discussions and proposals that are going to come very soon, but I have not seen any of them so far. Now you agree that's what you're waiting for. I find that problematic, because you will continue to look for European solutions and wait for them. The same applies to the reading mission. It is certainly a noble goal to do that with different countries, but if it does not, I think it would be useful to start it at national level and to ensure that we are not left with nothing and that our return policy does not end up in the wreckage any more than is the case today. I do not understand why you are waiting for this and not, in the meantime, taking responsibility for trying to reach the necessary agreements at national level. I hope that you are right and that something will follow soon from Europe. I shall come back to that in a later question, because for the time being there is certainly not much of it in the house, and you seem to be the only one who still believes in the European solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u15	Mrs. Matz would like to apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u16	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the government has, of course, a discretionary power with regard to the regularisation procedure. You and the DVZ can freely decide whether or not to allow them, and that is good. You have a great freedom of assessment in each individual regularisation file. Now, which means discretion, given the principle of trust, not that the assessment should be arbitrary. Previously, there was the 2009 circular or the instruction of 19 July 2009. It may have been destroyed by the Council of State, but later both State Secretary and DVZ publicly stated that they would continue to apply the guidelines of that instruction on the substance. Yesterday in De Oorden, I heard a previous Secretary of State, Mr Francken, say that there are criteria for regularisation: long stay, long asylum procedures, school children, a blank record. I found that a remarkable statement from the former Secretary of State. I wonder what your attitude is now. Does the DVZ still apply the criteria of that 2009 instruction as a formal source of law when assessing individual applications in the facts, perhaps in an adapted form? Is the criterion of the urgent humanitarian situation still the general criterion of substance? Is it still interpreted as a situation that is so oppressive that the person cannot get rid of it, which makes a stay in Belgium the only solution? Can you give some examples of this? Can you further specify that? Furthermore, is it still the case that the DVZ deals in principle with the oldest applications first? Do, as in the past, files with a particular medical or humanitarian problem, or after a judicial decision, or in detention pending repatriation, or with asylum seekers in reception, still receive priority? What parts of the instruction are currently included in the residence law? Do you agree with the assessment made by some that refusal decisions would not be sufficiently justified, which would make the decision insufficiently acceptable? Finally, what is the current average lead time of a regularisation application? How has it evolved in recent years? Can you tell us anything about how the DVZ deployment evolved, expressed in VTEs?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u17	Why do you not clarify these people and point them out so that those who do not have the right to stay, who often came here illegally, who falsely claimed to be a refugee and then refuse to return and thus take away opportunities from real refugees, cannot remain? To give that clarity seems essential here, before there are any deaths. As I said earlier, I would like to add that a core took place today where you would also have found a solution for the hunger strikers. I am therefore very interested in your answer and in a final state of the discussions at the core.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u18	Mr President, Secretary of State, the hunger strike of the undocumented people in the Beguinage Church is entering a very critical stage. We will, of course, continue to monitor this situation, because nobody wants any casualties. There is a humanitarian emergency in which these people are at risk of dying. Meanwhile, 26,000 people signed a petition asking for solutions. A front of academics, rectors, trade unions and civil society organisations therefore requires solutions from you. Their demands, which we support, are clear, objective criteria and an independent committee to assess individual dossiers for regularisation. I would like to stress that we do not demand collective regularisation, even if the Dutch-speaking press keeps inventing it. In yesterday's plenary, you said you were in contact with the hunger strikers. According to our intel, your most recent encounter with the hunger strikers dates back a few weeks ago. Mr Secretary of State, when was the last time you were in contact with the hunger strikers themselves and when were you in contact with representatives? Are you committed to organising a new consultation? If so, at what time? The Brussels Government, with Rudi Vervoort and the PS, urgently calls for an inter-ministerial conference on the issue. It must take place on your initiative. Is it true that Deputy Prime Minister Dermagne has made an official request to this effect? Have you called that conference yet? What date is it scheduled for? Will the situation of these sans papers be specifically discussed there? On 18 June, you said in this Committee on Home Affairs that you are working on an amendment to the Royal Decree on fees. You said that the amounts will be based on a more detailed calculation of the effective administrative costs. Are you committed to reducing the cost of individual applications for regularisation? Are you in contact with the hunger strikers about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all with regard to your questions concerning hunger strikers, of course, I am deeply concerned about the current situation. I fear the medical consequences for the people concerned and I understand that they are in a precarious situation. However, as I said yesterday, this does not justify an ad hoc, non-structural policy that would include measures in favour of those who have decided to start a hunger strike or worse, to sew their lips. It's the other way around. The fact that I am again in a situation of hunger strike after the regularisation campaigns of 2000 and 2009 reinforces my conviction that we need a structural solution. For this reason, I am strengthening and extending the existing legal migration and ensuring that the 9a procedure remains an exception procedure, removing certain categories of this procedure, such as stateless persons that I have already mentioned on several occasions. Transforming the 9bis procedure into a new legal migration channel with criteria or temporarily regularizing all persons without a legal stay, as proposed by several organisations, are not solutions. Mrs. Van Camp, you asked me if I shouldn't make myself clear. I think I have been quite clear in my reply over the last few days and here again. Like all of you, I'm looking for short-term solutions too. On several occasions, I have proposed to the representatives of the strikers and various organisations and support committees that people be informed about the sites on their file, on the decisions taken, their reasons and consequences and on the residence procedures. I see that it is very difficult to convince people to follow existing paths. I have made several concrete proposals so that my administrations can go on site to exchange on the individual file of the strikers – for those who wish to do so. For the time being, the persons concerned and the organisations surrounding the actions are not yet open to this process. I would like to encourage everyone to work together constructively in the light of this proposal. The question has already been asked a few times who these people are and what exactly that means to them. I would also like to know who they are, hence the creation of such a neutral zone, where we can properly inform people and know exactly who they are. That is what we are working on and we hope that all partners will participate in it. We are following this difficult and delicate situation closely, both medically and from a safety point of view. I have also received an official request from Minister Dermagne to convene the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Migration and Integration. I, too, would like to bring together the IMC as soon as possible, which was also included in my policy statement, as it aims to be able to coordinate on issues whose powers are spread over the different levels of competence and we all benefit from better coordination and coordination. In the end, that's the intention of an IMC. I am thinking here of a good alignment on labour and study migration, on integration, on integration and activation of newcomers, on the policy of vulnerable groups of unaccompanied minors or on the control of certain conditions of residence. However, I am still waiting for the representative of the Brussels Government to be appointed before we can actually start. As you know, all governments must designate their delegation and we are waiting for one more. The issue of fees has already been raised with me by several hunger strikers and organisations. As I have said, I will come up with a proposal based on a detailed calculation of the effective treatment costs of the various applications. In fact, this week I have seen a number of organizations that have come to me to issue a petition with 28,000 signatures. I would just like to say that I will certainly continue to listen, but that does not mean that we are questioning the policy we are defending, which is a policy of the heart and the mind. Mr Segers, you asked several questions about the application of the current humanitarian regularisation procedure. It is important to bear in mind that all dossiers are indeed assessed individually and as a whole and that there are therefore no criteria on the basis of which a person has a right of residence. However, there are several elements that together influence the whole of the file positively or negatively for the final decision. The instruction of 19 July 2009 was destroyed by the Council of State in 2011 and those criteria are therefore no longer applied. The criterion of the urgent humanitarian situation, which was reflected in it, is therefore no longer applied as such. It is clear, however, that this is a humanitarian regularisation and that special humanitarian situations are being taken into account. There are no criteria, but of course there are directives. If criteria are used, the outcome is determined in one or the other sense. That is never the case; there are directives with positive and negative results. For example, public order will weigh up and the vulnerability of children will contribute to a positive decision, as you have already heard from others. The applications are indeed dealt with chronologically. Sensitive files are given priority, such as parents of refugee-approved children because of the risk of genital mutilation. For that target group we do not want to apply Article 9a. Persons who are awaiting removal or residents staying in a reception centre with an extended right to receive care are usually also subject to accelerated treatment. For the rest, the treatment must be done chronologically. It is important that certainly the oldest files are dealt with the fastest. We all have the ambition not to keep anyone waiting for years for an answer. The parties concerned therefore deserve an answer as soon as possible. Certain parts of the old instructions have now been incorporated into the residence law, such as parents of a Belgian minor child in the rules governing family reunification, Article 40a, §2.5, and the family members of an EU citizen who do not fall within the scope of family reunification, but whose residence should be facilitated under the European Citizenship Directive, Article 47, §1.3. I absolutely do not agree with the statement that the decisions are not sufficiently motivated. They are extensively motivated in facts and in law, otherwise they will be cancelled by the Council for Foreigner Disputes. As I have already told the committee on several occasions, there are no statistics on the period of treatment. The staffing of the service dealing with applications based on Article 9a has evolved from 17.7 full-time equivalents by the end of 2018 to 23.3 full-time equivalents today in recent years. In the short term, I am looking forward to further strengthening the services in order to be able to deal with the backlog quickly. That is our absolute priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u20	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your comprehensive reply and the many clarifications. As you know, you have our full support in the way you handle this. For us too, regularisation is an exception procedure and there can be no collective regularisation. We know the different views of the parties, so let us now look at what connects us. I am talking about political parties and civil society among themselves, activists and universities. The neutral location you're talking about is really the way out. Let us make it a success story together with the aforementioned actors, develop them together and then provide the lead of the hunger strikers to that place, so that they can be clarified in individual files and on an individual basis, and that we can see the people who are in the churches and other locations and that we know where they stand, what perspective there is. That is the way out and I hope that everyone there wants to put their shoulders on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, if I understand correctly, there has not really been a breakthrough at the heart of the matter. That's weird. I'd heard it was. You are essentially repeating the answer you gave yesterday, so I suspect that there has been no new solution. So the situation is dragging on. I think it's a good thing you're holding your ground. I have read in an opinion piece in De Tijd that of all the bad solutions in this file, admitting and giving papers is the worst. I'm sure I'll agree to that. My question was not to clarify these dossiers at the end of the journey, but rather to clarify them more quickly. When people start to strike, they should be deported much faster, even before they start to strike. That is the clarity I referred to in order to protect people from it. They have clearly stated in the media that they still hope because in the past, including under the flag of your party, collective regularisations have taken place, the last in 2009. The only way of clarity is to work just faster on that return policy, to make it conclusive and to show much quicker on a negative decision. Unfortunately, you have not made the right decisions to ensure them to this day, quite the contrary. You have taken a further step backwards, including with regard to detention. You say you're working on the backlog by recruiting extra staff. Just about the only decision you make is to pump more budget in, among other things, the reception and treatment of applications. As long as you do not do anything about the unbridled influx of mainly illegal migration to this country, as long as you do not deal with it, the mopping with the crane remains open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u22	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. I didn't understand something in your answer. You say that this inter-ministerial conference will certainly be there, but that there is no date yet. You have then listed what will be discussed, but you have not mentioned the situation of these sans papers. May I conclude from this that this will not be on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u23	In this situation, we cannot wait for the Brussels Government delegation to try to avoid the problems that may become even greater. People's lives are at stake. I can only wait for other delegations to properly organise the policies that go across different governments and levels, but we also need to act now and let this situation de-escalate. What Mr Segers is saying is right. The most important thing now is that we arrive at a neutral zone, where people are well informed about their files. It is impossible for a group of people not to receive individual guidance and not to know if they already have a file and at what stage their file is in. To know that, they have to go there, of course. We're offering that. We hope that all partners will go along with this, because that is the only way to inform people correctly and guide them to the right path.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the clarification. I hope you will be able to encourage the Brussels delegation to work on this as soon as possible. With regard to the neutral zone, you replied to my previous question that these people have very little confidence in public services. I think there is still a lot of work to be done in this area. You also repeated what you said yesterday in plenary. We still believe that a structural solution is needed to remove thousands of workers without legal residence from exploitation and to give rights and dignity to the families who have lived here for so many years. In our view, and according to the 27,000 people who signed the petition, a structural solution with objective criteria is needed. Without objective criteria, structural policies cannot be pursued. I would also like to return to what Mr Segers said in his question about Mr Francken, who stated on the radio on Thursday that criteria already exist, but that they are kept secret. That surprises me very much, because that's how you keep these people in uncertainty. That can't be called a humane policy, can it? We'll keep knocking on this nail as long as it takes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u25	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, perhaps I can spare you some of the answer because, according to Politico, you are, at least, the only one who continues to believe in the EU migration pact. However, in the context of a previous question, you confirmed that nothing came of it. I shall therefore confine myself to my other questions. When are you going to acknowledge that the migration pact seems to fail? Would you prefer to stick your head in the sand for the time being? In the meantime, will you develop your own initiatives, such as Denmark and other Member States? The answer to a previous question has already shown that you continue to believe in this pact. How long are you going to wait to take initiatives to stop illegal migration? What's your plan B?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u26	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, I will answer your first question anyway, because I think it is important and also because you seem to have failed to follow up on current events in this area. In fact, I assumed that you referred to the creation of the European Asylum Agency with that first question. We all know that it is very difficult to achieve a European asylum and migration pact. We have been waiting for years because this has been the case since 2015, under the previous government. Meanwhile, all Member States continued to plead for a package deal, everything had to be taken together. That has made it very difficult to make progress, because if we want to do everything together, then we usually achieve nothing. A very important achievement in setting up EASO, the European Asylum Agency, is that asylum applications will now have to be dealt with more quickly. In Greece, where I visited recently, the predecessor of EASO was able to speed up asylum procedures when the crisis broke out there. In addition, this is of particular importance in principle. It is a sign that there are opportunities to come to a migration pact little by little, and not to wait for everyone to fully agree on the totality. I thought you wanted to ask that about the European Asylum and Migration Pact and the latest state of affairs, but perhaps it was not. Under the Portuguese Presidency, a number of steps were taken on legal migration, with the conclusion of the negotiations on the revision of the EU Blue Card Directive, the Blue Card, compared to the US Green Card. That was a proposal that has been under negotiation for five years. An agreement has now been reached on this. There is also an agreement on the external dimension, with the organisation of a Jumbo Council, of Home Affairs and Foreign Affairs, and a virtual ministerial conference on the pact with the countries of North Africa. That's gonna be important, too. You may know that an important migratory flow is coming from there. The Commission has also launched the Talent Partnership. In the session on the Asylum and Migration Pact, I took the floor to draw my colleagues' attention to the urgency of this dossier. I also advocated a sensible European approach to migration policy, with circular migration, which should allow people to come here and, above all, strengthen the countries of origin, in a legal way, as we are trying to organise. Working towards European solutions to shared problems does not rule out a national policy that we are pursuing. This policy does not have the same content as other Member States. The comparison with the choices made in Denmark is difficult. Not only because I am asking questions about the practical feasibility and the opportunity, but also legally, given the interpretation given by international law to the concept of safe third country. For the rest, we are trying to take important steps. We have also made simulation exercises possible, at last allowing us to have rational discussions on the European Asylum and Migration Pact. I am certainly not the only one in Europe who thinks that we need a European asylum and migration pact. All my European colleagues are convinced that we need to improve European screening at the external border, ensure that migration is better controlled and that we need a better return policy. All Member States agree on this. In order to achieve this pact, you will indeed need 27 Member States and therefore 27 ministers or secretaries of state. I work very hard on that every day. This has been under way since 2015. I am working for a few months and I am certainly pleased that we were able to take a first, important step with EASO in those few months and finally get away from that package deal, and also that with a simulation exercise we were able to rationalise the debate and move away from the little thread that is often cited about solidarity and responsibility, which unfortunately means that we cannot move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u27	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your full answer. I did follow that message, but I was left with the same questions. The agency was announced, but it's not there yet. So we do not have any results yet. The aim is to speed up the processing of asylum applications. However, if that is the only thing that will come into the home of the migration pact, while nothing is being done about the unbridled influx of illegal migration, then it will eventually be old wine in new bags. What capacity will be created on the ground, as long as life-threatening sea and land crossing remains possible, leading to distressing problems? Those are the problems that need to be addressed, the approach is not in an office that processes asylum applications more quickly from people who have arrived after having made such a dangerous crossing. Illegal migration and its consequences become visible on the ground. As long as that is not addressed, the mopping with the crane is open, as I said in the previous question. The return is also an important aspect of the Pact. That is what you are hiding behind from the shortcomings in national policy, because you say every time you wait for Europe, which you expect to see a handsome return policy. Visa sanctions and joint readmission agreements have been announced, so you do not think it is necessary to conclude such agreements separately. We can't hear anything else. Now you find it a success that more asylum applications can be processed more quickly, while the system error persists that people can migrate illegally, with too many people and come here and/or end up in such conditions in appalling circumstances. After all, there is no agreement on the distribution of asylum applications. So the system error doesn't stop there. You also repeat your squeals about Denmark. You are all too easily rejecting the Danish model because it is not legally substantiated. You have not, unless I have made a mistake, carried out any investigations, or at least did not give us any such investigations. You say that it is not a solution and that it does not stand up legally. However, I do not hear alternatives from your side. My question, therefore, is how long you will be stuck in the sand in the matter. At least I'll keep following up on the file. It is a pity that you are stalling in taking national initiatives, which are really necessary. After all, everyone sees that the EU approach will not come into its own again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u28	My question is in line with Mrs Van Camp's. I therefore refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u29	Now that the European Council and the European Parliament have reached a political agreement this week, a number of further steps need to be taken before the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) can actually be launched. The different language versions still need to be aligned and there is still a formal vote to be taken in both the European Council and the European Parliament. Meanwhile, the EASO has already done a lot of preparatory work to make the transition to the new European Union Agency for Asylum (EUAA) as smooth as possible. To this end, a specific project group was set up. The entry into force of the agency was already taken into account in the budgetary and programming fields. The mandate of the EUAA largely builds on the mandate of the EASO, but the opportunities to support the implementation of EU policies in the external dimension and in situations of particular pressure in certain Member States have been strengthened. There are also more opportunities to organise operational cooperation and mutual assistance. In concrete terms, this means that the Agency will be able to provide staff more quickly in the case of operations. A pool of 500 persons is created, consisting of experts from Member States who can be deployed in the event of disproportionate asylum pressure. The training activities offered to Member States will be extended. There are also more opportunities to develop practical technical tools and to issue guidelines to coordinate practices and policies in the Member States. Out of respect for fundamental rights in all its activities, the Agency will also be strengthened with a fundamental rights officer. Finally, the Agency will be able to recruit liaison officers and build capacity both in the Member States and in certain third countries. So, like the EASO, the new agency will continue to support the Member States. In doing so, we need to distinguish between permanent support to Member States and operational and technical support to Member States faced with specific pressures on their asylum and reception systems and invoking support from EASO. The new mandate of the Agency thus provides more opportunities for greater convergence and harmonisation of national asylum systems in order to ensure that each Member State has a sound and efficient asylum and reception system that complies with European standards. Perhaps it is not unimportant that I also agree that it is not because the agency exists that we are not working on a number of other issues at the same time. After all, I notice a number of questions and answers I give, that when I focus solely on the answer, certain conclusions are attached to them. I'll just give it to you. For example, European reading mission agreements do not mean that we should not work on read mission agreements in Belgium. I see that there is sometimes a need for clarity in this area. If I have to clarify that, I'd be happy to. In this respect, it may also be important to point out that it is not because the European Agency must ensure faster procedures that we in Belgium should not ensure faster procedures either. If that clarity can help, then you are welcome to do so. After all, we all know that we have been facing very long asylum applications for many years. Asylum seekers sometimes have to wait a year here in Belgium for an answer to their asylum application. Unfortunately, these long procedures have been going on for a long time due to underinvestment in our services. Afterwards, we give people an A4' just to ask them to leave the territory, and then nothing more to do. There is therefore a policy of tolerance towards those concerned. I'm just gonna give it to you because otherwise I might not be complete enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u30	Mr Secretary of State, you were very enthusiastic in the media, and I quote: "This has been on the table since 2016.' You just said 2015, but the time is now. At last, concrete steps are being taken to achieve a European asylum and migration policy. However, it is still too early to crow victory, and I look forward with you to the concrete results and the decisiveness of this new European Agency for Asylum. I do not know what miracles are expected, but we are convinced that no system will solve the problem unless a structural solution is found. For the N-VA, this is an approach that prevents illegal migration and reserves the right to asylum for those covered by the Geneva Convention and who can legally enter Europe after protection, the so-called Australian model with human reception centres outside Europe's borders. I hope you are working very hard on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u31	I have to be very brief on this. The files are confidential on the express request of the security services themselves. Therefore, I cannot provide any additional information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u32	That was short indeed. In the Michel administration, it was agreed that we would not bring anyone back actively. If the Vivaldi government decides to actively bring these children back, you can honestly admit that their parents will also be returned. It is impossible to return a child without Belgian nationality without his parents arriving sooner or later, either through Belgian nationality or through a family reunification procedure. I very much regret this, and it is very dangerous indeed. These people have chosen to leave the country and even fight it. They rejected our most fundamental values and killed innocent people with the weapon in hand. Now they are rewarded by our naive system to rescue them through a humanitarian visa. Now they use and abuse their children to come back here. Of course, your Vivaldi government admits to this. Can it be even more cynical that humanitarian visas should be issued to the enemies of our civilisation and our freedom to help them out of hell for what they and only they are responsible for?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u33	Mrs Daems, in addition to several provisions in the Aliens Act concerning the greater interest of the child, the principle of the greater interest of the child is also included in the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, more specifically in Article 22a, paragraph 4 of Article 24, paragraph 2 of the Constitution and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and several European Directives. Those provisions oblige my services to take into account the greater importance of the child when making decisions. It shall be ensured that the assessment of the higher importance is systematically applied in practice. The inclusion of the greater importance of the child as an overarching principle in the Foreign Law should be considered in the framework of the Migration Code, as I explained in my reply to a question at the committee meeting of 7 May 2021. By Article 2 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child concerning the principle of non-discrimination, Belgium made a declaration that the principle of non-discrimination based on national origin does not necessarily imply the obligation for States to automatically guarantee the same rights to foreigners as their nationals. This principle is also intended to exclude any arbitrariness, but not the differences in treatment based on objective and reasonable considerations in accordance with the principles that apply in democratic societies. Technically, that is not a reservation, just a communication on how the principle is interpreted in our minds. Non-discrimination is therefore always the starting point, but there may be situations that justify a difference in treatment. It simply means that nationality can mean an objective difference in situation, which justifies different treatment. That's pretty standard and not controversial at all. A government may treat different cases differently when differences are based on objective criteria, such as nationality. That is also a firm case-law of the Constitutional Court. I therefore do not see why this statement should be withdrawn. This interpretative statement does not, of course, mean that children's rights should not necessarily be guaranteed for non-Belgen. Nor is it a mockery of the principle that human rights are universal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, if you think what you say about human rights, then the greater importance of the child must become a fundamental consideration in the legislation. The new Migration Code you are working on is an excellent opportunity. We will keep an eye on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u35	Mrs Van Camp, your next questions. 55019572C, 55019573C, 55019574C and 55019575C were conversions of written questions to oral, I believe?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u36	The cabinet has just before the start of the committee worked on the delivery of the answers. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u37	That's good news, everybody happy. Then we shall consider these four questions as being dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u38	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Akufa Lobi, this nickname designates in Congo the moribond, the one who will die tomorrow. It's the nickname that was given to Mimi, a person I know, who is affected by sickle cell disease. For, yes, in the Congo, suffering from sickle cell disease, it is to be condemned to no longer have hope. Mimi has been undocumented in Belgium for eleven years now. And yet, since recently, she has been threatened with deportation to Congo, her country of origin. Mimi has a very rare disease, sickle cell disease. This genetic disease affects the blood. It causes a degeneration of red blood cells: they regularly block the blood vessels. This disease is painful, disabling. Although rare, it is the most common genetic disease in the world. In Belgium, it affects more than 50,000 people. Mimi is obviously not the only one in this situation; otherwise, I would not tell you about it. Many undocumented people are in very problematic medical situations. However, since the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 18 December 2014, a person who faced a serious risk of serious and irreversible deterioration of his or her state of health in the event of his or her return should be entitled to a suspensive remedy under the expulsion measure. It therefore seems obvious that such an application for expulsion cannot take place. It should be recalled that the procedure laid down in Article 9b of the Law of 15 December 1980 allows the special regularisation of persons in an irregular situation who have applied for medical reasons. However, in practice, such a measure is often very strict, too strict for some people suffering from a pathology such as sickle cell disease, which is not being adequately treated in a number of countries, such as the Congo. Mr Secretary of State, on the expulsion of persons with chronic illness, what is your interpretation of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 18 December 2014, but also of the famous Paposhvili judgment of 17 April 2014? How does Belgium today respect these case law? With regard to the 9ter procedure, why not ensure that irregular migrants with sickle cell disease are granted regularization procedures? What are the criteria for determining whether there is a real risk to his life or physical integrity or a real risk of inhuman or degrading treatment? Are they clear enough and sufficient for the Aliens Office to apply them to specific cases? Do you accept the idea that, perhaps, some very disabling pathologies pass between the meshes of the net?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u39	Mr De Smet, I shall start with general information on Article 9b. In my opinion, you know him very well, but a reminder is never useless. Article 9b concerns diseases that pose a real risk to life or physical integrity; or a real risk of inhuman or degrading treatment where there is no adequate treatment in the country of origin or in the country where the patient is staying. These risks are assessed on a case-by-case basis by the physician of the Aliens Office, who is independent in his or her medical assessment. This assessment depends on many factors: the clinical condition, the severity of the disease, the necessary treatment, the response to the treatments. Therefore, it is not possible to say that any particular pathology will automatically give rise to regularisation. When the Medical Officer of the Aliens Office pronounces himself on the merits, it is that he has found that the risk of inhuman and degrading treatment in case of lack of treatment is real. In this case, it checks whether the necessary care is available and accessible in the country of origin, in order to verify that the sick person will be able to continue his treatment in that country, thereby avoiding the risk of inhuman and degrading treatment. Article 9b has existed since 2007. The doctors of the Aliens Office and the supervisory bodies of the CCE and the Council of State have therefore applied these criteria for 14 years, without any problem. This shows that they are sufficient and sufficiently clear. It should be recalled that the Council of State has already ruled that Article 9ter provides more protection than Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. As far as Paposhvili is concerned, if a person submits an application 9 ter and his file is examined by a doctor of the Aliens Office who gave a negative medical opinion, there are two cases. Either the decision is inadmissible: the person concerned does not suffer from a disease covered by Article 9b and therefore does not fall within the scope of the diseases for which the Paposhvili judgment applies, given the absence of inhuman and degrading treatment in the event of lack of treatment and of a real risk to life or physical integrity. Either the decision is unfounded: in this case, the availability and accessibility of medical care is established for the disease because there is a risk of inhuman and degrading treatment if the treatment is not available. The Paposhvili judgment, which asks to verify this, is therefore well respected. As far as sickle cell disease is concerned, additional precision should be given as there are two types of sickle cell disease. On the one hand, there is heterozygous sickle cell disease. In this case, there is only one carrier gene and the disease usually does not develop or with mild symptoms. However, there are exceptions with more serious cases. I don't have to submit my personal medical notebook to you. Personally, I have the heterozygous sickle cell that I inherited from my father and that protects against malaria. This has advantages when one is heterozygous but not when one is homozygous, that is when the two genes are carrier and the disease is active. Of course, there are more serious symptoms than others. It should also be recalled that sickle cell disease is very rare in our countries but is much more common in some populations, particularly in Congo and Iraq, as in my case. This is why there are medical centres in these countries dedicated to this pathology with screening and treatment as well as informative campaigns.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic535x.u40	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. You know the 9ter and the subject. There are of course different forms of sickle cell disease. My attention is focused on disabling cases and not on sickle cell disease, which is asymptomatic, such as the one you are wearing. I met the collective Drépanocytosis, ASBL who accompanies these people who have problems that do not just arise for questions of stay. I regularly ask questions to some of your colleagues and there is a lot of prevention work to ensure that genetic disease does not happen again. There is a lot to be done with this unknown disease. With regard to the specific aspect of the stay, I continue to believe that people who suffer from a serious and rare form of sickle cell disease face, in the event of expulsion, treatment that could be considered inhuman and degrading. I hear your interest in the subject and you replied yesterday, in plenary session – and rightly – that you were a Secretary of State involved and on the ground. You are not afraid, you must recognize, to go to contact and meet. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to propose that you meet the head of this collective for your simple information. I know that the medical officer of the Aliens Office is doing his work independently and I do not ask for any pass-rights. I just want to improve your information by proposing this meeting.
