ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic496x.u1	Madam Minister, e-Procurement applications allow for online procurement procedures and transactions. The application of e-Notification, which is part of this, allows contracting authorities to publish public contracts. Companies can consult public procurement here electronically. Those applications are, as they should be, available in our three country languages and in English. However, there are problems with the search terms, where one abbreviation can be found only in French. We heard this from a contractor who would have missed a public tender. In this specific example, the Dutch complainant had subscribed to tenders containing the abbreviation 'MIVB'. However, the tenders in which this person was interested were only communicated with the French abbreviation 'STIB'. After a conversation with the helpdesk of e-Procurement, this person discovered the language problem. However, the possibility of participating in the tender in question had meanwhile expired. The problem still exists. Madam Secretary, are you aware of the language problems specific to the use of search engines? Can these problems be traced and resolved? In what way will you ensure that tenders are not missed simply because of linguistic differences? Have similar complaints already been received by your services or by the Permanent Commission for Language Monitoring? If so, how many? Do you have any idea how many search terms this language problem poses?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic496x.u2	Mrs Goethals, there are no known cases of language-related problems in the e-Procurement search engine or in the e-Notification application. We have had the example you mentioned investigated. This shows that the problem would arise from the incorrect use of the search engine. The search criterion compares the keywords entered with the texts which the tenderers include in the title and the description of the contracts they publish. These are free text fields, which are filled in themselves. This responsibility rests solely with the contracting authority. The system itself works as it works, but if the MIBV fills in as a search term STIB in a call for tenders, you will be faced with problems to which you refer. The proper functioning of the search engine and the reliability of the search results therefore depend on the information that the tenderers include in their announcements. It is their responsibility to ensure that these text fields are correct and correctly translated. The application does nothing but facilitate this and provide a tool to display the previously completed text in the source language during the completion of an announcement with each text field to be translated. I imagine the search engine doesn't know the word STIB, while he might recognize another French word. There I see a possible explanation for this one case. Precisely because the search by keyword can lead to variable search results, e-Notification provides several other search criteria based on structured and thus language-independent data. These search criteria do offer a lot of flexibility to the user and allow for a detailed search for relevant commands. For example, the user probably would have obtained the desired result if, for example, he had used the search criterion "organisation'. After all, STIB can be referred to as STIB. That's another way. Finally, support is offered to all end-users in the system so that they can familiarise themselves with the platform's capabilities. This is done via freely available manuals or via the helpdesk. Users can also always get additional explanations about the most efficient way to search for jobs by clicking a question mark on the search engine, to avoid problems. The FOD BOSA lets me know that they have no knowledge of language-related or other problems with the search engine, nor that such problems would have been reported through the helpdesk or through the Standing Commission for Language Monitoring. Nevertheless, the helpdesk's ticketing system will provide a specific category for language-related problems. In the implementation of the new e-Procurement, extra attention will also be paid to offering a performant search engine. By this I mean that we are going to try to avoid this kind of problem in the future. Companies wishing to participate in public procurement will be supported by communication campaigns on the new platform. After all, you will agree with me that we have only one intention, namely to give as many companies as possible the opportunity to participate in the tenders. I hope that there will be no further problems of this kind.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic496x.u3	Madam Secretary, let's be clear. My question was addressed to the Secretary of State for Digitisation because this is a digital problem rather than a civil service problem. It is good that this is being addressed, because then a solution can be found. Probably there have been several cases before, without them being reported. People do not always feel like it or do not know that the helpdesk window exists. It's good to be working on this, but maybe something can happen to the first search field, the base field. In the end, it is a question of public procurement. Sometimes there are specific terms that are different in Dutch than French, such as STIB/MIVB. There aren't that many. One can simply ask for these two key words to be mentioned when writing public contracts, for example STIB/MIVB. That would help a lot. It is good that the helpdesk window will be able to effectively seek help and that the problem will be resolved in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic496x.u4	Madam Minister, on the initiative of then Minister of Civil Service, Mr Vandeput, the Royal Decree of 22 December 2017 on Federal Centralised Public Procurement in the framework of the Federal Procurement Policy was issued. The Royal Decree had several objectives, such as making the federal common procurement of public service contracts and public supply contracts more efficient. In my written question I already asked you about a state of play in the development of the federal purchasing model and your vision of a possible expansion of it. From the outset, the Royal Decree intended to extend the perimeter for certain purchases to all public institutions. I was pleased to read that you are in favour of a further extension of the provision to the passive participants, being the parastatal organizations or ION's. However, you state that you cannot oblige the parastatal institutions to participate actively because of their legal personality. Madam Minister, can you clarify your statement that it is not possible for all public institutions to impose the obligation to purchase and contract together? Does it mean that no overall cooperation is possible with the government outside the perimeter of the FPS? What initiatives do you wish to take to maximise the involvement of passive participants? What was already the result of the initial consultations with the ION's and the OISZ's? What were the concerns and expectations regarding the extension of the Royal Decree? You state that a federal purchasing policy note is in preparation. Can you tell me what's going on?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic496x.u5	Mrs Goethals, according to the Royal Decree of 22 December 2017, it is indeed not possible at the moment to require all public institutions to participate in common public procurement. We can only work as much as possible on the basis of consensus. In the current regulations, therefore, only the federal administrations, the FPS, the Ministry of Defence and the programmatic public services, the PPS, can become mandatory. The Council of State confirmed this on 15 September 2017. Greater cooperation, involving more active involvement of public utility institutions and public social security institutions, is possible, but it is necessary to adapt the model of cooperation for federal centralised public procurement. We intend to review the current model in 2022 so that it is better adapted to the possible participation of those government organisations or similar institutions with one of the federal state's distinct legal personality. The further development of the federal centralised public procurement cooperation model will allow more account to be taken of the expectations, needs and purchasing potential of the participants. Consultation with the organisations and institutions with their own legal personality, which has already taken place, shows that they welcome this evolution of the model and, above all, are calling for more common agreements in the cross-cutting purchasing segments, in particular in the area of supporting logistics or recurrent goods and services with shortened placement periods. In this way, they would be less burdened with red tape, which would be reflected in the award of contracts. Finally, they also indicated that they should be given the opportunity to pass on their needs and concerns regarding public procurement. Indeed, the current model of cooperation seems too much to them for the active participants. A Federal Purchase Policy Note is currently being drawn up in application of the Royal Decree of 22 December 2017. The highest administrative officials should validate that Federal Procurement Policy note. The Council of Ministers is to give its approval by September 2021 at the latest. In consultation with my colleagues, the Federal Procurement Policy note includes multi-annual action points so that federal government procurement becomes even more environmentally friendly, sustainable, ethical and socially responsible. It will also focus on the accessibility of public procurement for SMEs and start-ups in order to maximise our country's innovative capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic496x.u6	Madam Secretary, I can only be very pleased with your answer. I can't comment against it. That's impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic496x.u7	Mr President, Minister, following on from my written question on the financial evolution of the civil service, I have some questions about your vision and ambition for a slender government. The figures obtained show that overall a linear saving of 2% on staff appropriations from 2016 to 2019 was achieved. For the FODs and the PODs, staff records would even have been reduced by more than 5% over the last five years, but apparently staff appropriations increased by 2.7 %. Maybe I'm wrong about that, Madam Secretary. In times of digitalisation, further efforts to decrease, along with a sufficient quality of service, will certainly remain necessary. The Flemish Government expresses the clear ambition to do it with only 1,440 officials by the end of the legislature. This aims to achieve an annual saving of EUR 75 million. The Flemish Government is on the right track and is even ahead of schedule. These savings in order to achieve a slender government will not be accompanied by naked redundancies. Retirement will be considered to determine whether or not replacement is necessary. Madam Minister, I have already received the figures on staff appropriations and personnel resources from the federal government. Can you clarify where the largest shift in personnel is located in concrete terms within the FODs and PODs? What are the trends in recent years? Do you see differences in front office and back office? In Flanders, it was decided that public services would decrease by about 5% in five years. In what way do you want to bet on a slender but above all high-quality government? What actions do you wish to take? What are your ambitions and objectives? What savings targets can you see towards the end of the legislative term in terms of staff appropriations and staff resources, without, of course, having to go to naked redundancies and the loss of quality of service? Could you possibly make the same analysis, as the Flemish Government has already done?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic496x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Goethals, before I answer your questions, I would like to say that I am surprised at the increase of 2.7 percent in staff appropriations, just because we are implementing the target of EUR 150 million per year, i.e. EUR 600 million per four years, as stated in the government agreement. Can you find the source that lists that figure of 2.7 %? This cannot be explained in the light of the savings that we must make in terms of staffing and operating appropriations. Of course, there is a commission for new policies, but I would be surprised if there was an increase of 2.7 %, especially if we see the number of officials falling year after year. As for your specific questions, the federal government does not manage the evolution of its staff by setting standards regarding the number of officials or the profile of those officials. Maybe that's different with the Flemish government. However, it sets a budgetary limit which is checked twice a year, during the monitoring of the risk of exceeding staff appropriations, for which the Secretary of State for the Budget and I are responsible. So I will answer you with amounts when you may have percentages and numbers in mind, which might explain the difference. That's what we need to find out. This system allows management to assess the quality standards for profiles and functions, for both back office and front office. They exercise their powers autonomously, of course in agreement with their guardian minister and the finance inspector. Each federal government can therefore develop its own strategic planning. Furthermore, only federal administrations can answer questions about the qualitative evolution of their workforce. Together with our leading officials and guardians, we are going for a modern, efficient and customer-friendly, green and sustainable federal government that provides quality service. To achieve a slender government, we focus on different actions. There are actions aimed primarily at improving our internal functioning, building a simplified structure, rationalising horizontal processes and facilitating services. In addition, we try to map possible reductions in spending reviews. There are currently three pilot projects that we will continue to roll out after evaluation. Other actions will focus on simplifying the administrative processes and the digitalisation associated with them. A not insignificant action is to implement structural measures for the prevention and treatment of stress-related diseases. The more people we can keep on board, the more savings this can absorb, although that is obviously not the main reason for this measure. Finally, my policy cell will cooperate with the plans put forward by the Secretary of State for the Budget for simplifying and reviewing the budgetary rules. At the federal level, the context and methodology are not the same as at the Flemish level. When it took office, the federal government set out a dynamic fiscal policy in which the federal services also accounted for a share. This represents an annual saving of EUR 150 million in staff and operating appropriations up to 2024. That is a total of EUR 600 million. In addition to the initiatives already mentioned in reply to your second question, I would also point out that the rationalisation of our public administration is not accompanied by naked redundancies. We do check every time someone retires or a replacement is necessary. That's what I just said. We'll definitely get back to that 2.7%.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic496x.u9	Madam Minister, the question has been put for a while and I do not know exactly where I got it 2.7%. I'll check that out, too. We'll definitely see each other and then we'll talk. A number of steps can or will certainly result in a slimming government. I am glad that you are very specific this time, where you have always been very general in the past. I'm learning a lot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic496x.u10	Debates of the European Parliament 55018167C by Mrs Rohonyi lapses as she is not present.
