ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic371x.u1	Madam Minister, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic371x.u2	Madam Vice Prime Minister, the metisse children were subjected to social stigmatisation and sanctions in the colonial regime. Among other things, the Belgian State abducted them and was the cause of their hair removal. Afterwards they often ended up in orphanages or with adoptive parents in Belgium. For some time now they have been fighting for family and administrative recognition. The Belgian Church and the then Prime Minister have apologized to the metisses community. In 2018, the Chamber of Representatives unanimously approved the resolution on metisse children. The resolution recognizes the targeted segregation of which metises were victims under the colonial rule of the Belgian Congo, Rwanda and Burundi until 1962 and after decolonization, as well as the related policy of forced kidnapping, with which I quote the title of the resolution. The unanimous adoption of that resolution in the Chamber dates from two and a half years ago. The government statement dates back to a year and a half ago. After the apology and the letter of intent for the restoration of honour, of course, the measures and actions must also be followed. The various associations which contributed to the resolution are, of course, quite rightly aware of its implementation. During the long period of ongoing business, the Metiss community has been patient, but since the new government took office, of course, that community wants to see rapid progress. That is why I specifically questioned you at the committee meeting of 16 December 2020 on the issue in general and the follow-up to the Metissen resolution. At that time you gave a very detailed answer, for which, by the way, thanks for the state of play, each and every requesting part of the resolution. As committee members, this provided us with a good overview of what has happened since then and, above all, of what needs to be done. Much remains to be done, on the one hand, by the facts and on the other hand, by the information we have received in concrete terms through the Metissen vzw from Belgium. In writing, addressed, among other things, to the President-in-Office of the Council, whom you have no doubt heard, we learn that the victims still face many difficulties in different areas. For example, there are still difficulties in correcting or adjusting Belgian nationality, which is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, but for which you, as Deputy Prime Minister responsible for external relations, can have a possible indirect contribution or can still take a stimulating role. With regard to facilitating the search of metises for their descent, there are still challenges, especially for Belgian diplomacy. For example, in writing, the non-profit association points out that there is a great deal of error in the flow of information for the identification of African biological parents from the embassies, even though Foreign Affairs has drawn up guidelines for this. Those directives appear to be too limited or insufficient in practice. We have also noted that the Belgian Ambassador has raised the question of access to the archives at the Holy See, but on the follow-up to it, it is still looking for coffee for the time being. A lot has already been said about the opening of the colonial archives of the FPS Foreign Affairs Department for research into the descent of metises; it is a long-term process. The reasons for this were already mentioned in your previous reply and also during the hearings in the special committee on the colonial past, of which I am a member. Mr De Vriendt will certainly confirm that. That assignment may, in its own words, take a few more years. Moreover, there is still uncertainty as to the financing of certain parts of the research. There is still a need for additional budget. I hope that you will be able to give an update in your reply on the financing of the historical research section. A last very sensitive item for the metissen community is the fact that there is still no memorial stone to perpetuate the memory of that painful history. You would consult further on this matter in the new government. You have also indicated this in a previous question. What are the results of this consultation? The concrete implementation of the resolution is slow, too slow in the first instance for the victims and their families themselves. The matter of recovery is urgent. We see that some complaints and sighs have not yet been met. In its official letter to the President of the Chamber and to all representatives of the people, Metissen vzw has cited concrete examples of often purely administrative problems, making it very visual where the shoe is wringing. How do you respond to all comments of the Metissen vzw from Belgium? I suspect, however, that these remarks also live with the other associations or bodies involved. What concrete steps has the government taken in the meantime or will it take in the short term to implement the resolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic371x.u3	Mrs Ponthier, Mr De Vriendt, at the committee meeting of 16 December 2020, I gave a comprehensive overview of the steps already taken to implement the resolution on the metes of 29 March 2018. This was coordinated, where appropriate, between the Federal Government and the Länder, for example, between the General National Archives, Child & Family and the newly established Descendant Centre and the Central Authority of the Community. For a recent state of affairs concerning civil status and Belgian nationality, I refer to the reply given by the Minister of Justice on 13 January last in the Committee on Justice. My department also gave the necessary instructions as early as May 2019, so that Belgian metises of colonial origin can receive help from our embassy and diplomatic posts in accordance with the Belgian regulatory framework in order to identify their African biological parents. The Belgian embassy at the Holy See also raised the question of access to archives at the relevant religious congregation in Rome. The FPS Foreign Affairs has decided to declassify its colonial archives and to transfer them to the General National Archives. The transfer is in full swing, but has been delayed by the current health situation and the previous antifungal treatment, which was to receive a large part of the archive. The department also has contact with other federal services about the declassification and transferable parts of the royal archives that are in our possession, but which are partly under their jurisdiction. The first phase of the research project on the joint management of the FPS Foreign Affairs and the General National Archives is ongoing. In early February 2021, the website of the research project Resolution Metissen was posted online. There's a lot of information on the website about the project. The parties concerned may submit their applications by means of a form. For the second phase of the project, namely the detailed historical investigation, as State Secretary Dermine clarified at the meeting of the Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions of 2 February 2021, there were contacts between the competent Cabinets to find the necessary funding. I would remind you that the Prime Minister, when he issued a solemn declaration of remembrance on behalf of the Belgian federal government at the plenary session of the Federal Parliament on 4 April 2019, I read "the metises from the period of Belgian colonisation and their families for the injustice they have suffered and the suffering they have endured'. The creation of a memorial stone or other tangible memorial will be investigated now that the new government is in office. We have invited the messaging associations to make suggestions on this matter. All previous initiatives are part of the moral and administrative recovery for, on the one hand, the injustices to African mothers whose children were deprived of and, on the other hand, the disadvantage that was caused to the metises born during Belgian colonization. Additional claims for recovery will be examined on a case-by-case basis with the application of existing laws. The resolution of 29 March 2018 has therefore already been substantially followed up. As I pointed out in my reply of 16 December 2020, we have informed government partners since the new government took office and contacted the associations again. My services and my cabinet will continue to consult with the associations and stakeholders to discuss the implementation of the resolution. In fact, a new meeting is scheduled for next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic371x.u4	Madam Minister, thank you for the precise answer to almost all my questions. I would like to raise with a series of questions the state of play with regard to the implementation of that important resolution. In this context, I have already asked questions to the Minister responsible for science policy. You will undoubtedly agree with me that a lot of work has already been done, but that a number of things still have to be done. I will therefore continue to follow up the dossier, including as chairman of the Special Committee on Congo and the colonial past. We shall look into the problems there in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic371x.u5	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, you have largely provided a copy of your reply of 16 December, with a small addition here and there, including as regards the disclosure of the contact point. You said that the associations have been contacted since the new government took office. This is absolutely commendable, but apparently it has not yet reassured the associations. At the beginning of this year, it was felt necessary to give once again, by means of an official letter to the President of the Chamber of Representatives, the points of pain which still do not give credit to those concerned. For many metes that is a very sensitive point. It concerns the question of the recovery of nationality. It is said that there is an unclear approach to the civil status record and that the instructions to the embassies are not sufficiently known. There is also a need for certain archives to be opened. On that point, we can fully understand the situation. It is also about the only partial funding. You have not clarified the extent to which the allocation of EUR 1 million is necessary for historical research. You will also remain on the plain about the absence of an official memorial. I am very sorry about that. In other words, Belgium's metises say that they fear that the resolution and the pardon of the Belgian State are rather a tissue for bleeding. They believe that there is no or insufficient work to be done on the full implementation of the resolution. They complain that it often seems like this is actually very perverse that administrative progress in the processing of a file is an obstacle rather than an incentive to a constructive or a solution-oriented attitude on the part of the administration. You point out that a great deal of work has been done since the adoption of the resolution, including in the field of coordination between the federal government and the Länder. I certainly don't deny that, but there's still a lot of work to be done. I am convinced that we must not delay in making progress as quickly as possible. Madam President, I therefore tabled a motion of recommendation yesterday through the services. It calls on the government, in cooperation with the Länder, the administrations concerned and the officials concerned, to work fully and urgently on the effective and full implementation and implementation of the meti resolution in the spirit of the resolution. We also call on the government to ensure that the results of the examination of the various working groups, which have taken place following the resolution, will be delivered to the special committee on the colonial past, so that we can get a complete picture in that respect too and optimise our work in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic371x.u6	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Annick Ponthier and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Annick Ponthier and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and of the Federal Cultural Institutions, - having regard to the fact that metis children in the colonial state were subjected to social stigmatisation and sanctions; - considering that among other things. the Belgian State ensured that these children were abducted and displaced, thus ended up in orphanages or with adoptive parents in Belgium and have been fighting for a long time for family and administrative recognition; - referring to the unanimous resolution of the Chamber of 29 March 2018 on the segregation of which the metises from the period of Belgian colonisation in Africa have been the victims (DOC 54/2952/007); - having regard to the fact that the drafting and implementation of the resolution on segregation, the metises of which have been the victims of the period of Belgian colonization in Africa, has not yet been fully implemented; - referring to the official writing by the Belgian Association of Metissen, addressed to the President of the Chamber and to all the representatives of the people and the list it contains on the subject. very concrete and administrative problems which have not yet been addressed; - whereas this gives the association of Metissen in Belgium the feeling that the resolution and the pardon of the Belgian State is merely a tissue for bleeding; - whereas there is an urgent need for the implementation of the resolution, that it is useful and necessary for the Special Committee on Colonial History to take note of all the elements of the file, but that this should in no way mean that it should be placed on hold; asks the government - in cooperation with the Communities, with the relevant administrations and senior officials in the spirit of the resolution, make full and urgent efforts to ensure the effective and full implementation and implementation of the Meti resolution (Doc. 54/2952/007) - contributes to the transfer to the Special Committee on Colonial Past of the results of the examination of the various working groups which have taken place in response to the "Meti resolution'. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Annick Ponthier and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs. Annick Ponthier and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and the Federal Cultural Institutions, - the fact that Métis children have been victims of social stigma and sanctions in the colonial state; - having regard to the fact that, inter alia, the Belgian State has ensured that these children are abducted and uprooted, and land in orphanages or with adoptive parents in Belgium, and that these people have long struggled for recognition at the family and administrative level; - Referring to the House's resolution of 29 March 2018 on the segregation of the Métis from Belgian colonization in Africa, adopted unanimously (DOC 54/2952/007); - in view of the fact that the implementation and implementation of the resolution on the segregation of the Métis from Belgian colonization in Africa have not yet been fully achieved; - Referring to the official letter from the Belgian Metis Association, addressed to the President of the House and to all Members of Parliament, and to the enumeration of very concrete problems and unresolved administrative problems therein; - Whereas these elements give the impression to this Métis association of Belgium that the resolution and the pardon requested by the Belgian State are nothing but a cache of misery; Whereas there is an urgent need for the implementation of the resolution, and whereas it is useful and necessary for the colonial Special Commission to become aware of all the elements of the file, but that this cannot in any case mean the temporary cessation of one or the other task; asks the government - in collaboration with the Communities, administrations and senior officials concerned, to work fully and rapidly, in the spirit of the resolution, for the effective and complete implementation and implementation of the Métis Resolution (DOC 54/2952/007); - to help ensure that the results of the analysis carried out by the various working groups in the wake of the Métis Resolution are transmitted to the Special Commission Past Colonial." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Michel De Maegd. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Michel De Maegd. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic371x.u7	Madam President, in reply to the questions on the situation in Venezuela, I would first like to refer to the recent conclusions adopted at the Foreign Affairs Council on 25 January. He said that the European Union did not recognize the electoral process of 6 December 2020 as credible, inclusive and transparent, and therefore as representative of the democratic will of the Venezuelan people. The European Union believes that the only possible solution to the crisis in Venezuela is a rapid resumption of political negotiations and the urgent launch of a dialogue and transition process under Venezuela's leadership with a view to holding local, legislative and presidential elections that are credible, inclusive and, once again, transparent. The European Union continues to support all those who are fighting for a democratic future in this country and the call for freedom, the security of all political opponents, and in particular the representatives of the opposition parties elected to the 2015 National Assembly and, in particular, Juan Guaidó and other representatives of the democratic opposition. The European Union considers them to be important players and privileged interlocutors. The European Union will continue to engage and work with all stakeholders to encourage peaceful and democratic dialogue and a lasting solution to the crisis, and to do so, it will continue to work closely with its international partners known as like Minded, mainly through the international contact group, and will also continue to coordinate with the Lima Group and the United States, and will continue its outreach efforts with other regional actors. Belgium fully supports the EU approach outlined. A democratic solution can only be found through dialogue with all parties. It goes without saying that Juan Guaidó and the members of the 2015 National Assembly play a major role in this. This is more important than a semantic debate on recognition or a certain statute that is or is not granted. In this context, Belgium follows the principle of recognising only states and, in addition, a formal recognition of Guidó and the 2015 National Assembly would create a precedent that could make it difficult to resolve other conflicts elsewhere in the world. The restrictive measures already taken by the EU remain in force. In addition, as indicated in the Council conclusions, the EU will explore the possibility of further extending the measures. During the 45th session of the Human Rights Council, Belgium supported the independent international mission and expressed its deep concern about the situation, in particular about arbitrary detention and the circumstances of that detention. In addition, our country has requested information on the measures taken by the authorities to monitor the situation in detention centres and since you are asking the question, I inform you that I have not recently had contact with the Venezuelan Ambassador in Belgium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic371x.u8	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. The situation in Venezuela is and remains dramatic. Two years ago, President Juan Guaidó brought hope for change, but unfortunately, and especially after the illegal elections on 6 December, the Venezuelan people have failed to move away from the left-wing authoritarian regime of Maduro. The Venezuelan people are now living in fear and suffering from repression. Millions of people have fled the country and Maduro is using the sanctions on the oil country as an argument to explain the deep economic malaise. The civil and human rights of the Venezuelans are being violated, from repression and threats against opposition members, journalists and critical voices to forced disappearances, arbitrary detentions, torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading punishments and treatments. In this I also refer to the 350 political prisoners currently held by the regime. You refer to it in your reply. Venezuela urgently needs a political solution to put an end to the current deadlock. Belgium can play its part in making Venezuela a democracy again, first and foremost, and as far as we are concerned, especially with opposition leader Juan Guaidó, who is still the rightful interim president. An international commitment must be made to start processes with the ultimate aim of organising new, this time legal, free and democratic elections. In the motion before us, therefore, as recently confirmed by the European Parliament, we are calling for the recognition of Juan Guaidó as a legitimate interim president, pending new and valid elections. You spoke of a precedent and you said that Belgium only recognises a state, but I hope you will follow us in that. We also call on the government to urge the Venezuelan authorities to release the at least 350 political prisoners unconditionally and immediately, because this is a gross violation of freedom of expression by condemning the regime. We must send a message of hope to the Venezuelan people, who are the main victims of this impasse, hope that democracy will eventually prevail in Venezuela.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic371x.u9	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. We will, of course, remain attentive to this issue. It is clear that political negotiations are the key at the moment, negotiations between Juan Gaidó and the parliamentarians of the National Assembly elected in 2015 and, on the other hand, the Chaviste parties that came out victorious of this vote, to say the least, contentious. If these negotiations do not succeed, then the question of sanctions will have to be reconsidered, but let us not put the plough before the oxen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic371x.u10	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Ellen Samyn and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and of the Federal Cultural Institutions, - in view of the continuing and aggravated humanitarian crisis in Venezuela; - having regard to the declarations of the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy of 6 January 2021, - having regard to the resolution adopted by the European Parliament of 21 January 2021 on the latest developments regarding the Venezuelan National Assembly, - whereas illegal and unlawful parliamentary elections were held on 6 December 2020; - whereas, in its resolution of 31 January 2019, the European Parliament recognised Juan Guaidó as the legitimate interim president of the Republic of Venezuela in accordance with the Venezuelan Constitution, and reaffirmed this in its resolution of 21 January 2021; - whereas respect for and protection of human rights in Venezuela is being violated: from repression and threats against opposition members, journalists and critical voices to forced disappearances, arbitrary detentions, torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading punishments or treatments; - whereas at least 350 political prisoners are still being held in Venezuela; asks the government - recognise opposition leader Juan Guaidó as the legitimate interim president pending further valid elections; - urge the Venezuelan authorities to release the at least 350 political prisoners detained in Venezuela unconditionally and immediately; - condemn the regime's gross violations of freedom of expression; - to summon the Venezuelan ambassador and to address the situation. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms Ellen Samyn and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and the Federal Cultural Institutions, - in view of the persistence and worsening of the humanitarian crisis in Venezuela; - having regard to the statements of the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy of 6 January 2021; - having regard to the resolution adopted by the European Parliament on 21 January 2021 on the latest developments in the situation in the Venezuelan National Assembly; - in view of the holding of illegal and irregular legislative elections on 6 December 2020; - Considering that, in its resolution of 31 January 2019, the European Parliament had recognised, in accordance with the Venezuelan Constitution, Juan Guaidò's legitimacy as ad interim President of the Republic of Venezuela, and that it confirmed this attitude in its resolution of 21 January 2021; - in view of the violation of human rights in Venezuela, ranging from repression and threats against members of the opposition, journalists and critical voices to enforced disappearances, arbitrary imprisonment, torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment; - Whereas at least 350 political prisoners remain in Venezuela; asks the government - to recognise, pending further regular elections, opposition leader Juan Guaidò as the legitimate ad interim president; - plead with the Venezuelan authorities for the unconditional and immediate release of at least 350 political prisoners in Venezuela; - to condemn gross violations of freedom of expression by the regime; - to summon the Ambassador of Venezuela and to denounce the situation". A simple motion was tabled by Mr Michel De Maegd. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Michel De Maegd. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
