ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic560x.u1	I would like to welcome you all to this exchange of views. I understand you would start with a small introduction, Prime Minister. I propose that the questioners should then speak. Those who have not submitted a question may still join in. We could possibly proceed to a closed-door meeting in the event of elements being requested or communicated that are covered by a security clearance. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic560x.u2	Mr President, I myself, the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will give the introduction. The purpose of this introduction is to explain why the government has decided to repatriate ten children and six mothers. I will also explain the timeline of the decision and the broad lines of the operation. Minister Wilmès will explain the diplomatic and consular context and Minister Van Quickenborne will explain the reception and treatment of children and mothers since their return. I want to make it clear that it is not possible to give personal information about these sixteen people. The government didn't go ice in this decision for one night. The decisions were taken in the National Security Council. The members of this Council are the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Ministers and the Ministers of Justice, Defence, Home Affairs and Foreign Affairs, if they are not Deputy Prime Minister. The decisions have been prepared by the Strategic Committee on Intelligence and Security, in which representatives of the members of the National Security Council meet with the members of the Coordination Committee on Intelligence and Security. That Coordination Committee shall consist of the executives of the civilian and military intelligence services, the Crisis Centre, the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis (OCAD), the Federal Police, the FPS Foreign Affairs, a member of the College of Attorney General, the Federal Prosecutor and the Chief of Defense. The issue came on the agenda in December 2020 following the repatriation of a nine-year-old child from Al Roj, who was the victim of child abduction. The Syrian Kurds made an exception to their rule of not separating children and mothers for humanitarian reasons. The return of this child during the Christmas period triggered a reflection process. On 6 January this year, the Strategic Committee discussed for the first time a possible repatriation following a note from the Minister of Foreign Affairs on men, women and children in the camps in North-East Syria. This showed that the Kurdish government that manages these camps was not prepared to separate mothers and children from each other on repatriation. The government decision of December 2017 whereby only children under 10 years of age could return to Belgium was therefore not enforceable. The Kurds did not allow it and the mothers involved did not let their children leave alone. Since December 2017, only seven people had returned from the refugee camps: four orphans, one unaccompanied minor as well as one adult and one minor who had both been kidnapped by their father. In the conflict zone there were then 16 Belgian men, 21 Belgian women and 38 Belgian children, spread over two refugee camps in North-East Syria, Al Roj and Al-Hol, and some prisons in Syria and Iraq. In addition, 10 women and some 30 children managed to flee these camps to Turkey, where they had been expelled by the Turkish authorities to Belgium through the hotspot procedure. The Strategic Committee then invited the Coordination Committee to draw up various notes on the number of persons eligible for return, their actual situation and the judicial or administrative procedures or decisions applicable to them; on the approach applied in other European countries, on the monitoring of persons already repatriated and the distribution of competences in this field and on recent developments in Syria. On 2 February, the National Security Council discussed these notes. Once again, it turned out that the government's decision of December 2017 met with resistance from Kurdish mothers and authorities who did not want the children to return alone, except in exceptional humanitarian cases or abduction of children. Moreover, the age limit of 10 years was purely arbitrary. Finally, the great instability in the region was also addressed. Refugee camps can fall into the hands of the Assad regime or Turkey or totally implode with the risk of losing sight of mothers and their children. The Coordinating Committee considered that a controlled return would be preferable. On the basis of this analysis and these recommendations, the National Security Council took the following decisions on 2 March: all children under the age of 12 could be repatriated from Syria and Iraq on the basis of the best interests of the child. In Belgian youth law and in international law, the age of 12 is indeed a pivotal age, from which the minor is considered to have a certain discernment allowing him to consult in matters concerning him. The return of minors over the age of 12 would be dealt with on a case-by-case basis. The mothers of these minors, who have Belgian nationality, who wish to return voluntarily and whose return is in the best interests of the child, will be subject to a prior and individual and in-depth analysis of the threat, including the security risk of non-repatriation. Their request for return will be dealt with on a case-by-case basis, on the basis of an assessment of the interests of the child, the risk to Belgian public safety and the operational implications. In taking these decisions, the National Security Council took into account the following considerations: First, the assessment of the threat to mothers and their children and the assessment of the Belgian public security risk posed by both repatriation and non-repatriation. Secondly, international human rights obligations and the rights of the child. Thirdly, the situation in the conflict zone (humanitarian situation, political, diplomatic and military context). Fourthly, the policy of repatriation of other countries. Fifthly, the procedures and court decisions relating to the mothers concerned, the family context of mothers and children, the experience with mothers and their children who have already been returned. Sixthly, the monitoring capabilities of mothers and their children after repatriation. With regard to persons not eligible for return, the National Security Council has confirmed that they will have to be tried in the area where the crimes were committed. This therefore applies to both men and women who do not qualify for repatriation. In the following months, the security and intelligence services drew up a detailed plan, in close cooperation with the Federal Public Services Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs and Justice, the Ministry of Defence, and with the services of the Communities and Regions. This plan was discussed at each monthly meeting of the Strategic Committee. During these discussions, it turned out that the security situation in the Al-Hol refugee camp had become very unstable and that IS was spreading terror there. A repatriation operation from that camp would be extremely risky and unlikely to succeed. It was therefore decided to limit the repatriation operation to children and mothers who were staying in Al-Roj refugee camps and who met the conditions. After Ramadan, the ADIV military intelligence service and the FPS Foreign Affairs carried out an exploratory or consular mission in the region. During these shipments, contact was made with the children and the mothers in the camp Al Roj. Questionnaires were completed, interviews and DNA samples were taken. In this way, it was possible to determine, inter alia, whether the children were who they claimed to be and whether their mothers wanted to return voluntarily and meet the conditions. On 4 March and 10 June 2021, I answered questions about the possible repatriation of children and mothers in plenary sessions. I then explained what decisions had been taken in the National Security Council. All information obtained was then analysed by the services and extensively discussed by the National Security Council on 23 June 2021. Based on the interviews and blood samples taken during the exploratory shipments, the OCAD had made an individual risk analysis for each person. It also weighed down the risks of repatriating or not repatriating. It came to the conclusion that non-repatriation presents a higher risk for the following reasons. First of all, the Kurds in Al Hol no longer have control and IS is waving the stick. This involves a risk of radicalisation and recruitment, especially of the children. Secondly, in Al Roj the Kurds still have internal and external control, but it is not waterproof. This involves the danger of women and children escaping and either disappearing from the radar or moving to Turkey and then ending up in Belgium via the hotspot procedure. Thirdly, the humanitarian situation in both camps is particularly bad. This poses a danger to children's development. Kids die all the time, too. Children who grow up in these circumstances can develop feelings of revenge towards the country that abandoned them, which can lead to attacks, for example. The Kurds have been asking for women and children to be repatriated to their country of origin for years, because the financial and organisational burden is becoming too great. They won't run those camps forever and ever. Earlier the camp Ain Issa was abandoned by the Kurds. All women and children, including some Belgian, escaped and disappeared from radar. Kampen may fall into the hands of the Assad regime or Turkey. This means the danger of some women and children disappearing under the radar. The conclusion of the OCAD was clear: a guided return of children and mothers meeting the criteria ensures that the Belgian security services can retain control. Once they are back in Belgium, the follow-up is rigorous and increases the chances of reintegration. It is therefore advisable to repatriate both mothers and children, both in the interests of the child and for reasons of national security. Analysis of the information and blood samples obtained showed that in Al Roj 6 mothers met the criteria and wished to be repatriated, together with their a total of 10 children. 5 of these 6 women had already been convicted in absentia in our country. They would be sent to prison immediately upon arrival in Belgium. The woman who has not yet been convicted is subject to an international arrest warrant. She will be brought to justice on her return. According to the OCAD, all these women represent an average level of threat. In Al Roj there were also women with a serious threat level. The repatriated mothers don't have any women with a serious threat level. On the basis of this broad and in-depth analysis, the National Security Council gave the green light on 23 June this year for the repatriation of the 10 children and 6 mothers. This eventually led to the repatriation on 16 July after a very careful preparation. Why was that date chosen? From the outset, the members of the coordination committee had said that they needed about ten days to carry out exploratory shipments, two weeks to analyse the information collected in the exploratory shipments and another three weeks after the political green light to prepare and implement the actual operation. As I said, the preparatory missions of the military intelligence service and of the Foreign Office could not take place until after the Ramadan and the Sugar Festival, i.e. during the last week of May and the first week of June. The services then processed and analysed all the information for two weeks. The political green light was given by the National Security Council on 23 June this year, after which the various services needed another three weeks to prepare the operation, to develop the necessary personnel and equipment in the region and to carry out the operation. The target date was to complete the operation before the Sacrifice, which is what happened. The actual repatriation took place on 16 July. I cannot give you any operational details, but I can tell you that the whole operation has gone as planned. I would like to conclude with a sincere and sincere thank you to all the services and persons who have participated in the operation. It was a particularly complex operation, not without risk, which was brought to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic560x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my administration, the Federal Public Service for Foreign Affairs, has taken on the consular and diplomatic dimension of the reconnaissance and repatriation mission. Before addressing a number of aspects, I would like to point out that I can, of course, only speak for Foreign Affairs and not for other departments or services; and I cannot, as the Prime Minister has indicated, go into the operational details of the reconnaissance or repatriation mission. The confidentiality of the operations, given the classified nature of this information, the security, the privacy of all the public officials who took part in it and the preservation of our country's international relations impose on us discretion and restraint. I think it is perfectly understandable and I thank you for your understanding. Let me begin with the diplomatic aspect before I move on to the consular aspects. Belgium is a credible actor in the fight against Daesh in Syria and Iraq, witnessing our commitment to the zone with four F-16s, but also our annual stabilisation aid to Syria and Iraq. It is not for nothing that I became co-chair of the coalition ministerial meeting against Daesh at the end of March with my American colleague, Mr Blinken. Our military commitment on the ground will ensure that we can count on our partner, first and foremost on the Iraqi authority and the Kurdistan Regional Government of Iraq. Their constructive and facilitating attitude was necessary. The road to Northern Syria went through Erbil, northern Iraq. In preparation for both the reconnaissance and repatriation missions, there have also been contacts with the local de facto authorities of Northern Syria. These contacts take place not at political level but at administrative level. These are therefore contacts between FPS Foreign Affairs officials with representatives of the local de facto authorities of North-East Syria. During the repatriation mission, a diplomatic collaborator from the SPF Foreign Affairs met with these authorities, who were thanked for their cooperation in the repatriation of Belgian children and mothers. With the exception of the attention paid to the plight of the Kurds in Syria, the local authorities did not ask for anything in return. Our country will of course continue to work towards an inclusive political solution to the conflict under the aegis of the United Nations. Belgium will also continue to provide humanitarian assistance to Syria through the UN and the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC). I'm going to the consular section. A consular officer of the FPS Foreign Affairs took part in a reconnaissance mission from 29 May to 4 June and on the repatriation mission from 13 to 16 July. This mission took place within the framework of the decisions of the National Security Council, which the Prime Minister has already set out. During the reconnaissance mission, identification was central. That means taking DNA samples, taking photos, interviewing those involved and getting them to sign statements on honor. The DNA tests were necessary to determine the pedigree of children born in Syria, who had no birth certificate, and thus did not yet appear in the National Register. All tests were positive, which means that the pedigree of the Belgian mother was established. On the basis of these identification data and on the basis of the thorough risk analysis carried out by our security and intelligence services, to which the Prime Minister referred, the National Security Council gave the green light on 23 June for the repatriation of 10 children and 6 mothers. My services have prepared travel documents in the form of provisional passports for Belgian mothers and for 1 child born in Belgium. For the 9 other children, so-called free guides, laissez-passers, were issued, each with a visa issued by the Department of Foreign Affairs. During the repatriation, the Foreign Affairs Consular Officer retained the travel documents of all concerned and presented them to the Immigration Department. The repatriation took place smoothly on a flight between Erbil and Melsbroek. Finally, I would also like to thank all the Belgian services that have contributed to the smooth running of this operation. I would also like to thank our international partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic560x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has explained what and why the decision of the National Security Council, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, spoke about the operation itself, and I would now like to explain to you how we deal with the returned mothers and children. Since 2012, our country has been confronted with a large number of Syrian fighters, also known as foreign terrorist fighters or FTFs; and consequently also with large numbers of returned Syrian fighters. Criminal policy was adapted accordingly and the Criminal Code was amended several times. Being part of a terrorist group was widened and traveling to that region for that purpose was made criminal in 2016, with a maximum sentence of 5 years. Those involved are systematically prosecuted by the federal court, men and women. That criminal justice approach has meanwhile been applied to more than 125 FTFs returning in recent years. Most of them returned in 2013 and 2014. For the return of children and mothers on 16 July this year, we can therefore draw on the experience and good cooperation between our services, which has been built up in recent years, and also on an appropriate approach by the Justice Department. That is important, because it seems obvious but it certainly is not. After all, there are countries that do not or do not systematically apply such a criminal justice approach, it is about criminalising participation in or traveling to those areas. This approach has led to more than 470 people being convicted of acts of terrorism in our country since 2015, mostly for Salafi-jihadi terrorism. Our country is a leading country in the European Union. This approach also applies primarily to returnees. Indeed, we must not forget that, besides the commandos who returned with terrorist plans, 125 FTFs have returned to our country. Some are still in prison, but many have already been released in recent years. In fact, many of these returnees returned in 2013 and 2014 already, even before the caliphate was declared. Most of these returnees are found guilty of membership of a terrorist organization, resulting in a penalty of up to five years. Since 2017, a total of ten women and some thirty children have returned, often via Turkey and the hotspot procedure. Returning mothers and children are therefore not a new phenomenon. It also happened among the previous governments, but for the mothers and most children it happened fragmentary and not organized and therefore with more risk and less control. With these figures, we still have to count the ten children and six mothers who returned on 16 July. In this case too, our services have made every effort to accommodate the children in peace. Upon arrival at the airport, child-friendly accommodation was provided. Children and mothers were told that they would be separated. The time has been taken for this to take place in the best possible conditions. The mothers had been informed beforehand. Mothers and children had time to say goodbye. I hear that this happened with a lot of tact and serenity thanks to the Youth Service of the local police, in good collaboration with the federal police. The mothers were led away by the federal judicial police and transferred to prison, four to Wallonia and two to Flanders. The children were in turn transferred to the hospital. On arrival of the mothers in prison and of the children in hospital, the applicable protection measures for COVID-19 were applied, including as regards quarantine and testing. The brothers and sisters have not been separated and share a room in the hospital. The Youth Prosecutor's Office clearly informs the hospital about the legal procedure, the possibility of visiting the family, the legal framework of the placement and the authority to which the hospital must address the follow-up. Currently, nine of the ten children are still hospitalized and are awaiting social investigation. One child was cared for by an aunt, as planned. For the mothers, as I said earlier, the criminal justice approach or the criminal offence applies. 4 out of 6 women are the subject of a conviction in absentia with immediate arrest, pronounced by the criminal court. They all received the maximum penalty for participating in activities by a terrorist group, i.e. 5 years in prison. They've all been resisting. A fifth woman was also sentenced to five years in prison, but could no longer resist. She has not yet filed an appeal. A European arrest mandate ran against the sixth woman as part of a judicial procedure for membership of a terrorist organisation. At the moment, therefore, she is in detention and according to the current schedule, she has to answer to the criminal court by the end of this year. As a first step, the monitoring of mothers is carried out by the prison administration and the State Security. The operational working group Prisons of the Radicalism Action Plan ensures monitoring. Under this plan, information is being circulated from the prison to the security services, but also to other services, including the Community Service, which works with women for their reintegration. The six women are listed as Foreign Terrorism Fighters in the Common Data Bank (CDB) on the OCAM list. Through the common database and the operation of the plan R, the so-called transition from intra muros to extra muros is ensured. This means that if women are ever released, they will remain in that common database and will be taken over by the local task forces, the LTF, and the local integrated security cells, the LIVCs. All security services are represented in the LTF and the measures to be taken are discussed. They are the central successor platforms, especially after the release. Within that permanent network, information is constantly exchanged. Individual measures may also be imposed. The LIVC of the residence is responsible for the social-preventive and curative approach. That consultation platform at municipal level is chaired by the mayor. With social-preventive services, LIVC seeks to develop an individualised follow-up path in the social-psychological field. The information exchange with the LTF is guaranteed by the information officer, who is a representative of the local police area that also sits in the LTF. Finally, I would like to point out that even after their eventual release, the returns remain in the common OCAM database. Only when the threat level has remained at Level 1, the lowest level, for two years, can a FTF be removed from the BDC. The OCAM shall continuously assess the level of threat on the basis of all available information. The threat that returns may represent in the long term must continue to be monitored, but, as the Prime Minister has already indicated, the MACO has assessed the threat posed by mothers as low. Generally speaking, according to the information available to the OCAD, the returners have often been deradicalised so far. In this way, several persons, including returners, have already been removed from the database, because they no longer represent an extremist danger, even though we know that there is no zero risk. For the children, of course, the starting point is different. Action and action are taken in accordance with the Community's youth decrees. A specific and individual follow-up is provided for them, under the direction of the competent juvenile court. When the children are allowed to leave the hospital, a child per child will be examined what is in the best interest of the child. The juvenile judge shall take the decision and its execution shall be carried out by the departments of the Communities. Minors are also followed in the LTF's and/or in the LIVC's. LIVCs include social-preventive services of the Communities to ensure the coherence of the follow-up and, if necessary, to inform the LTF. In the meantime, practice has shown that minors who have returned to our country in the past are generally doing well, despite the often horrific experiences they have experienced as children in the conflict zone. This probably illustrates what human resilience is. Most children have been placed with relatives, go to school and are in good health. Of course, their situation will certainly have to continue to be monitored in the long term at the psychosocial level. Finally, I would like to endorse the words of thanks from the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is thanks to the commitment and professionalism of our services that the operation went well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic560x.u5	Thank you very much to the three ministers for the introductory statement. I propose that we proceed to the questions that have been tabled and to the speeches by other Members who wish to join us. Mrs. Pas will be excused.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic560x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your detailed explanation. However, we had to learn through the press that Belgium would for the first time actively repatriate both IS children and their mothers from the Syrian-Kurdish refugee camp Al Roj. We heard that the women and children from that camp were taken to Erbil in Iraqi Kurdistan and were transferred from there to Belgium. During the Michel administration there was talk of bringing the children back, albeit without their mothers, but because the Kurdish authorities are pressing for both children and their mothers to be repatriated, the De Croo government has apparently now caved in. Of course, this decision poses immense national security risks to our society, as our justice and security services were unable to cope with Islam terrorism in the past. These IS women were often even more radical than their husbands, have actively contributed to the IS atrocities and terror. Let us be honest, that they actually repent, no one believes, not even the journalists who went on the spot to talk to them. Belgian IS women and children are still present in the Syrian camp, Al Hol, which is heavily influenced by IS. The security situation there is still preventing Belgium from bringing women and children back from there too. I would like to hear from you what the cost of the repatriation operation is. Are there any indications that women will be repatriated from the camp Al Hol? How many women will be repatriated in the future? Since this decision is not an international legal obligation of Belgium, why did our country take on this national security risk? These women will never have an effective life and may be able to disappear from the radar. It is possible that their children will also radicalize against our society. How do you justify this decision? I had another question about the sixth woman who hasn't been convicted yet. She is already subject to a European arrest mandate. However, I understood from your explanatory statement that you will not give any further explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic560x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last week we heard that this government effectively brought a group of IS women and their children back to Belgium. We have no guarantee that they have renounced their Islamic terror ideology. On the contrary, in the past, the fundamentalist persistence of such profiles proved to be consistent. Despite the earlier questions of the Flemish Interest Group, the operation was kept secret for a long time by this government. It was also striking that the Flemish media was asked by the government not to report on this. As a result, we became aware of the implementation of the operation through the Kurdish media. Just as the focus across the country was on helping the Flemings and Walls affected by water damage, this government brought terrorists and their children back to Belgium. That is a decision that may promote the chances of international posts for the members of the government, but it is also a decision that has no support for the people. Prime Minister, is it true that you asked the Flemish media not to bring anything about this repatriation? Why did you think that was necessary in this case? How often do you express such requests to the media? What would happen if they didn't comply with your request? Among other things, at the plenary session of 10 June last, the group leader, Mrs Pas, questioned you about these IS terrorists and their families. However, in your extensive speech there were no answers to a number of crucial questions, which we do wish to have answered this time. One condition that is always stated is that those involved must have renounced the so-called IS ideology. How exactly is this criterion fulfilled? What exactly are the parameters on which this is assessed? One of the elements by which you try to justify the return of the IS mothers is the element of national security. It's supposed to be better to get them out here than to disappear off the radar. Such an argument may also be used in the long term to repatriate the IS men left behind in Syria to Belgium. The Kurdish authorities are also calling for this. What guarantees can you give that the men will not be brought to this country, in the context of the so-called security of our country? Will you also, if necessary, silence the media on this matter again? What will this government do if suddenly a male IS terrorist presents himself as the father of a child repatriated to Belgium? What guarantees do you give that the man concerned, like the mothers, will not be brought to Belgium not only because of national security, but also because of the supposedly greater importance of the child? Finally, like Mr Samyn, I would like to ask the obvious question about the cost of this whole operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic560x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your numerous presence and your introduction. Mr President, I would also like to thank you for accepting my request to convene this Committee on the Interior because I fundamentally disagree with the view that the decision taken is in the interests of our national security. In fact, I think that decision would compromise our national security. Not so long ago, I was allowed to talk to those women on the ground, in a camp. Those women are supporters of terror, and we must not forget that. They disagree with our values and standards. They're okay with throwing gays off towers, and they're okay with stoning women. They were all members of the hisbah, the Sharia police. Not so long ago, Mrs Nadia Murad and Mrs Bashar witnessed what all these barbarians are capable of. Weeks later, in a footnote in the newspaper, we read a number of women and so many children have returned. Dear Ministers, I am also asking questions about the fact that this was raised before the summer recess at the last plenary session so that we could not question you in plenary. I also wonder how that works. Are the media called asking, in the interests of the operation, not to write about it and not to publish a short message until the evening? Prime Minister, I was able to read something very interesting in the same media in 2019. In that you, Prime Minister De Croo, advocate an international tribunal to bring them to justice. I quote: 'That seems to me to be the only realistic solution. What we absolutely do not want is to bring them back to our country." That is exactly what you are doing with the government a year and a half later! Let us not deceive you: we must no longer distinguish between gender and men and women, but here we do, while there are women who have more on their backs than certain men there. It is not because it concerns women that they can just take part in that risk path to return. I hear you say in your introduction that the 6 returned women are considered by the OCAD to be an average level of threat. It's hard for me to imagine. Does that mean there's as much threat to them as to my mother, a good retired teacher? Speaking of an average level of threat seems rather absurd in this regard. You also argue that the Kurds have been calling for active repatriation of women and children for years. That's not right. We, too, have talked to the official bodies. They are certainly not a questioning party for the active repatriation of women and children, let alone men, which they will refuse, by the way. They've already assured us that they'll fight it with their hands and their teeth. It seems to me to be a very strange argument to claim that they have been asking for it for years and that we are now responding to that request. All they ask is that we help and assist them on the ground and that we try the women there. By the way, the tribunal you proposed in 2019 has physically built it; I have been allowed to visit it. Then there are some other open questions. When was the decision made? I'm still not quite clear on that. By the way, how many IS terrorists are left in Al Roj now? We've been trying to find them. I can confirm that the order and discipline there are completely lost. That is why the Kurds are calling for international aid to restore order in the camps. They are not asking for the evacuation of those camps, but for the trial of those concerned. How is the risk assessment going? I do not need to hear the explicit questions, but I would like to know when someone who interviewed the women determines that they meet all the criteria and have an average level of threat. In the last six years, no woman has been questioned. They've all had a lot of time to get their story together. They certainly didn't convince me. Can you assure us that the recovered IS women will distance themselves from their extremist ideology? I think that's completely impossible. How are the IS women and their children who have been returned to our country since 2019? There's a bit of silence about the cost. This includes not only the chartered plane, but also the man-hours of the seventeen special ops. It wasn't the first time they went over there. Returned women end up in prison, which also entails costs, which must also be included in the cost. What budget does the government have for the repatriation of those terrorist supporters? That money can't go to the victims. Minister Van Quickenborne, you're acting exactly like it's the most normal thing in the world. You say that it is nothing new, that we have already condemned many people and are leading the EU. We were also court suppliers, of course. There haven't been so many terrorists left from any other country. You say years ago people were repatriated as well. However, it is the first time that there has been active repatriation. I would very much like that to be confirmed here by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic560x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not agree because my value pattern is different. I think that a state, if it wants to have the ambition to be a state, should primarily take care of its children. That is a fundamental principle. Those kids can't be blamed, by the way. They were born and raised by parents who have a lot to do, and that has to be said, but those children are not responsible for that. There is the fact of the Kurds who hypothesized the decision of, among other things, the previous government to go alone for the children. The Kurds argued that the mothers should also be caught. This, of course, has made the implementation of that decision virtually impossible. As a result, we were faced with unorganised family situations. The Minister of Justice referred to it, so there was a lot of unorganised return. If I have to choose between unorganized return and organized return, I know what I choose. After all, the latter is much safer than the former. Is that the last one riskless? No. No sentence, either for terro or for common criminal offences, is risk-free. However, punishment and punishment should respect the principles set out in the European Convention on Human Rights. It is also important that the situation on the ground has changed. One camp is no longer in the hands of the Kurds. It is also a little too simple to decide from Brussels or Paris that the Kurds will solve it. The CD&V was in favour of an international tribunal's handling, which, of course, should also be able to guarantee the principles of a fair trial, as provided for in the Convention on Human Rights. That too is not a reality in the field at the moment. I agree with the individual approach. It goes without saying that it is not without risk. In that context, I also have a few questions. In the parliamentary committee of inquiry we have learned how difficult and dangerous it is to deradicalize and control that. Unlike Mr Metsu, I have not been on the scene. I shall therefore, of course, continue with the advice of our specialists on this matter. However, it goes without saying that we must be careful with the mothers. The process must be dealt with either with opposition or by appeal. The penalties and the subject matter of those penalties have been increased during the previous period of government, but some of them still fall under the pre-terrorist regime. Of course, that execution is the Achilles heel. In any case, I call for caution to be taken into account in the execution of the sentence. Caution also means severity. If applications for conditional release were made, once the legal conditions were met, I would therefore be in favour of looking at them with the necessary rigour. I assume that those involved will have to serve a sentence. The Achilles heel is in it after the passing of the five years. From that moment on, the local task force and the LIVCs will be responsible. Mr Minister of Justice, I would like to draw attention to a proposal from our group. It will not be for these cases, but possibly for later, although we hope that it never has to apply. Our proposal is not clear and is also open to criticism. With our proposal, we want to provide for follow-up for certain crimes, even after a sentence has been served, with possible additional means of coercion if the person concerned is not accompanied further. If our proposal reaches a majority in Parliament or if you create legislation in that sense, then that will not apply to the cases before us. However, I would like to call for voluntary agreements to be made with the six women concerned. For the children, I think the succession will be the Achilles' heel at the time of their adulthood. The question arises as to whether there can be succession, even after they have reached the age of majority, and if so, in what way. This role will mainly be entrusted to the respective Communities, so cooperation is needed to this end. Do families and/or children still qualify, either in the camp in question, or in the camp in al Hol, which is actually again in the hands of IS? Finally, as far as the fathers are concerned. The Kurdish community is asking for them to be repatriated. What are the government's intentions in this respect? There too there is a humanitarian approach, but I do believe that the treatment of these fathers should be more stringent. Safety, severity and follow-up after execution seem to me to be very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic560x.u10	Mr Prime Minister, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for explaining the important decision that has been taken. If I have heard the questioners correctly, the discussion is about whether we should have left those women and children there, or whether it would be better to bring them here. Should that be brought here organised, as you have decided and carried out, or should it go unorganised, through the hotspot procedure? Mr Van Langenhove says that the decision was not supported by the population. I don't believe that. It was not carried by part of the population, but not by the whole population. I also hear in my congregation that there is a discussion. It is important in your explanatory statement that the OCAD has considered, in all its expertise and with all the information available, and that is more information than is available to us Members, that it is safer to bring those people here in an organized manner. That's done. You have explained very well how that happened. Now they're here. I think it is important to explain to the people exactly how it works. What did the OCAD really do? Perhaps not all of this is communicationable, but I believe that there is something more to be communicated by the OCAD about exactly what has been done and why it is safer to bring those people here. Now that they are here, and that is particularly a question for the Minister of Justice, they need to be well supervised. Minister, you have explained very well how this is done for women and children. But are these women now locked up in the so-called deradex wards? Are they following a deradicalisation process there? Even more important are the children. You say the juvenile judge will decide what to do with them. I hope the children are entrusted to the family, the warm nest, uncles, aunts. What possibilities does the government have to check whether these family members are also radicalised? You referred to the LIVCs of each city. That's the right platform, but does the government have any additional checks-and-balances to make sure they don't end up in a radicalized environment? What opportunities do the people or authorities who will receive the children, whether they are family or foster families, have to identify possible problems with the children, for example if they show signs of radicalisation at a later age? Can you give me any further explanation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic560x.u11	Mr President, let me begin by echoing Mr Verherstraeten's speech. It's about children under the age of 12. One of the things children don't decide about is who their parents are and what actions their parents make. The children are in refugee camps in particularly difficult conditions in terms of hygiene and safety. No child should ever be exposed to such circumstances. I support Mr Verherstraeten. The choice of government between giving the children the message that they have had bad luck in their lives, that that bad luck will sign them fundamentally and irrefutable for the rest of their lives, and that there is a good chance that they will not survive on the one hand, and that they will make an effort to remove the children from the wretched conditions, knowing that five of the six mothers in question have been sentenced in the meantime and at the time they arrive in our country, going straight to prison, while the sixth mother, on the basis of the international arrest mandate, is also being held against her immediately, is a measure of the civilisation that we present. As several have said, the decision was prepared very thoroughly. There has been a great deal of consultation with our security services. In addition to the well-being of the children, the other argument was the safety considerations. Apart from the well-being of the child, for safety reasons the question had to be asked whether it was safer to repatriate or not. Well, the security services thought it would be safer to repatriate. In short, from the point of view of child welfare there can be little discussion about this, but even if one does not take into account the child welfare perspective, it is better for the security services to repatriate. The repatriation can't be a surprise. I have been questioned twice in Parliament about this. I explained in Parliament what the decisions of the National Security Council were. The fact that there has been a reconnaissance mission is well known. The claim that repatriation was carried out in a manner that would not have been known on the date in question is nonsense. There has been a great deal of transparency throughout the preliminary stage. Long preparations have been made for the mission. After all these preparations, interviews and analyses have taken place, we decided that was the time to do it, a moment when the situation in the camps was deteriorating week after week. The competent departments will be able to answer the cost question. Is the repatriation taking place from Al Hol? No, the security situation in Al Hol's camp won't allow that. How many others could it be about? In Al-Roj, a mother of four might be eligible, but that mother refuses. He has made it very clear that she does not want to participate. So it was very clear that we would not do repatriation. Other women with children present there are not eligible, either because they have lost Belgian nationality or because they no longer have underage children. That is why we consider the repatriation from Al Roj to be over. We have done what is necessary there and will not take any further steps there. Shall we repatriate IS men? No, I have always been very clear about that that we as a government would not do so. In Al Hol there were no screenings or analysis and it is estimated that the situation does not allow to do so there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic560x.u12	The local de facto authorities of Northeast Syria are asking us to evacuate the camps and remove the children, as well as the mothers. You may have been on the premises, but that doesn't make you a specialist. Those authorities are asking us to do so, there is absolutely no doubt about that. Belgium is not the only country that has actively repatriated children and/or mothers. The Netherlands, Finland, Germany, Canada, Kosovo, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Russia, the United States, who also brought the men back, have done so. In the short term, Denmark and Morocco will also join in the same dynamics. As far as costs are concerned, for the reconnaissance mission, the total cost for the Foreign Affairs Office was 2,873 euros. The flight tickets and daily allowance cost 1,387 euros, and the cost of accommodation was 1,486 euros. The subsequent DNA analysis in Belgium was 4,750 euros. The cost of the repatriation mission has not yet been calculated, but it will be of the same order of magnitude as that of the reconnaissance mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic560x.u13	Firstly, as the Prime Minister and Mr Verherstraeten rightly pointed out, this is a controlled return. It is true that the mothers in question are locked up and that 5 out of 6 have been sentenced to the maximum sentence of 5 years. I would also like to point out that the maximum penalty for such crimes was introduced in 2016. This was approved by the then Swedish government coalition, of which 4 parties were part, and also received the support of the cdH and the Flemish Interest. It is important to mention that here. Secondly, whether or not to distance itself from IS ideology is taken into account as a criterion in the individual threat analysis of each woman. In doing so, careful consideration shall be given to all available information to assess the threat posed by women. All women who returned were prepared to suffer their punishment and indicated that they had repented as far as ISIS was concerned. In addition, the women signed a declaration of honour stating: "I declare to honour that I have no hostile intentions towards Belgium and that I reject the acts of terror or violence in the name of any extremist ideology." Thirdly, as regards the cost, I can tell you, in addition to what the Foreign Minister said in that connection, that it is part of the regular work for my services, namely the OCAD and the State Security (VCE), to continue to follow up terrorist suspects and convicted persons. For the CSCE, about ten staff were involved in the preparation and follow-up of the operation. We're talking standard hours here. For the rest, there were mainly 4 local staff present for the debriefing during the preparatory mission. Mr Metsu, as far as your question is concerned, you have been on the spot and you have never claimed that you are the specialist, but I found what you said in the media interesting. I quote from an interview that you gave to De Morgen on 15 February 2021: "Of the 11 women we spoke to, there was one of whom I felt was sincere." Further on, you say: 'What I want to say in particular is that every case must be looked at separately and that you cannot put these women on the same footing.' And you also say: "What struck me most is that a team of Belgian experts has never been sent to Al Roj to question those women." Well, Mr Metsu, what you say, we have done. First of all, we've sent a team on site to find out what the threat analysis is for women per woman. Secondly, we have not shaved all women along the same lines. Certain women were not allowed to return or did not want to return. In other words, we have done exactly what you have suggested. By the way, Mr Metsu, I would like to thank you for that tip. You then ask what happened to the ladies who have returned since 2019, except those who have now returned. Quite simply, out of the six women who have returned since 2019, five are in prison. In general, we are positive, but since most of them are in prison, they are of course in a very controlled environment. They all take part in the talks with the deradicalisation officer. Women who are no longer in prison are also closely followed by our various services. What about the children since 2019? Of course, the services that follow the children are better placed to make communications, but according to our information they are doing well. They go to school and have adapted well. We do not currently have information on problematic behaviour by any of these children. Questions were also asked about the relationship with the media. It was a complex and dangerous operation in which people from the Defense Department and the Foreign Office were present on the premises in a conflict zone. We have indeed informed some media about the operation under way, but asked them to respect an embargo until the plane takes off. In this way, we did not want to endanger the lives of people on the ground. The media concerned have respected this and we are grateful to them for that. Moreover, such a request is not new; in the past, this has been done in the case of delicate rescue operations where the safety of our people on the ground may be at risk. Mr Verherstraeten, you asked a very pertinent question about the execution of the sentence. The laws are what they are; the maximum sentence is five years. I have already told you who approved this legislation in Parliament. The Minister of Justice cannot go beyond that legal framework. Nor can the Minister of Justice make judgments or judgments here, or give his idea of judgments or judgments. We live in the rule of law. In a rule of law, there are three powers: the legislature, the executive and the judiciary. The judiciary must be given every freedom to make decisions within that legal framework. I will therefore not comment on the decisions of judges, fundamental judges or the courts for the enforcement of criminal law. I am confident that the decisions within that legal framework will be taken in good faith. We are, of course, free in the rule of law to amend the laws in Parliament. Take, for example, the bill on posting, which we can discuss. We will also do so in the context of the discussion of the new Criminal Code, which is in full preparation. Your bill will certainly be discussed there, Mr Verherstraeten. You also asked about the follow-up. That is, of course, crucial, and you are right about that. Mr Vandenput has also rightly mentioned this. We must indeed succeed the returned. Good work was done by the Committee of Inquiry and the follow-up committee in Parliament. The fact that there is a plan R for the prisons is important. With the common database in which more than 700 people from our country are registered, we have a toolbox to monitor these people effectively. We do this partly in an LTF in terms of safety and a LIVC in terms of social prevention. We have recently adopted a framework paper with the Home Office, which is why we want to work together with the Communities in a structural manner. When people get out of prison, they stay on the GGB list. It is only after two years at threat level 1 that they can be removed from the list. Colleagues, the phenomenon of returners is not new. The experience of recent years shows that, although of course we always speak with two words, most people are effectively deradicalizing. The same applies to young people, Mr Vandeput. The juvenile judge succeeds them, together with the Community. In the Flemish Community, the Agency for Growing up judges this. On the environment where young people end up, the LIVC's or the LTF's say. We are also trying to do good work in this area. Finally, as for the fate of the ladies who were incarcerated in prisons, they are scattered across different prisons. That's all I can tell you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic560x.u14	Prime Minister, Minister, it is becoming the custom of this government to take decisions behind Parliament's back. Not only did this operation happen in secret, but the press was also asked to remain silent. This too is becoming a habit. In March, the Prime Minister stated that the National Security Council decided to analyse on a case-by-case basis the possibility of repatriation for all IS widows. You said that national security remains the criterion. It would still be wrong that the security of our people would be subordinate to the fate of these terrorists. However, the question arises as to what will happen to that sixth woman. The media reported that the trial is still ongoing, but why hasn't she been convicted in absentia, like the others? Departure to IS area and participation in the activities of terrorist groups should be automatically prosecuted. Everything that men and women do in IS territory is based on their jihadist ideology and objectives, as is the case with a totalitarian regime. In addition, you say that the security services assess it safer to allow the women and children to return, because we could monitor and follow them here. I would just like to comment on the argument of authority that the competent services consider repatriations to be safer. Indeed, there are more than enough jihad and radicalisation experts, including the very renowned Montasser AlDe'emeh, who consider the repatriation to be an immense national security risk. So these experts find this situation far more dangerous than leaving ISs there. Do you really think that these women, who will be released after two to five years, will be able to be permanently succeeded? History tells us that our security services have insufficient resources and staff to map radical elements sufficiently and intervene in time. How many attacks and attempts by Muslim extremists still have to be made before we realize that? The fact that we can control them here is a dangerous illusion. A total of 123 IS have returned since the beginning of the conflict in Iraq and Syria. That's 123 ticking time bombs for us. People will never be properly re-integrated and the ideological propaganda that radicalized them is still alive. Do you really want to add more risk to this? In any case, no one believes that they have renounced their ideology, not even the journalists who have been there to talk to them. The IS women were often even more radical than their men and accomplice to the most horrific acts of genocide. Mr Metsu just referred to the atrocities committed on the Jezidi women and the mass rapes of the Jezidi women. The IS women were actively involved in this. How can such misdeeds be justified at all? Indeed, the IS children did not choose to grow up there. Indeed, the fact that these children have to bear the consequences of their parents' actions is tragic. The IS widows are therefore entirely responsible for the appalling situation in which they raised their children. The decision taken here by the purple-green government is therefore a cowardly and emotional decision taken under the blackmail of those IS women who abuse their children for their return. This puts this government at risk the safety of our innocent citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic560x.u15	Mr Verherstraeten, it is not true that it is impossible to bring the children here without their IS-terrorist mothers. In the press we could read that, according to Heidi De Pauw of Child Focus, the Kurds do give children without mothers. She refers to Germany and France, who had children repatriated without their mothers. The argument that the Kurds do not want to separate children and mothers does not make any sense, says Heidi De Pauw. Who am I to question our mainstream media and Mrs. De Pauw? Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the recall of these IS terrorists and their children in the name of our security is cynical and false. Anyone with a little common sense knows that bringing in a danger cannot be conducive to our security. You are therefore saying that it is safer to bring ISIS women here, so that they could supposedly be followed up in Belgian prisons. Everyone knows, however, that their prison sentences are laughing. In no time they will be free again and then they will be impossible to permanently follow. Your false arguments are also contradictory. After all, you say that it is strictly necessary to let those IS women go with their children, because it would not be humane to separate them. However, if those women really were to be punished and actually go to jail, and not for a prank, those children wouldn't be able to see their mothers until they're practically grown up anyway. These IS women themselves have chosen to leave here and commit terrorism in Syria or at least help with it. I can't believe they're gonna stay away. If we re-establish them here today, we will only lay the foundations for new jihadism and new terror for tomorrow. Indeed, it has been shown on several occasions how certain media and left-wing opinioners still underestimate the danger posed by these IS women. However, former captive Jezidi women all testified that IS women were even worse than the male IS-jihadists they were married to. I suggest you all read their testimonies. This is yet another evil that will go down in history as an example of this government's mischief, another blow in the face of the many Flemings and Walls who really deserve help.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic560x.u16	This is for the first time ever an active repatriation. You're quoting two reasons and repeating them in the replies. First of all, it's about the kids. Secondly, we'd better check them out here. Those are two things I dare to contradict. It's not just about the kids. We're just getting the terrorist moms in. That's not true, of course. Just now our Prime Minister pointed out that the first repatriation of a 9-year-old child took place at the beginning of 2021. That happened without the mother. The mother has distanced herself from the child and granted permission to take her child. So that's perfectly possible. What's going on in the field? These mothers cling their fate to the fate of their children and say that they cannot be repatriated without them. That's what's going on. We certainly shouldn't take the mothers with us. There is no obligation to do so. I hear Mr Verherstraeten from CD&V saying that they have a different value pattern. That's right. We have a completely different view on this matter from that of this majority. Mr Vandenput of Open VLD says that the return of the Syrian brides is carried by the population. I don't see how that's gonna work. I haven't discovered or spoken to that part of the population. Basically, those mothers tie their fate to their child's, and now they've made their move home to you. "We can check them here." That's a little ironic after everything we've been through with Jürgen Conings, when it comes to getting someone better checked out here. Within the same niche I will take the example of Noura F. She's known to you. The Attorney General knows her for sure. She has returned from Syria and has given birth to two foreign terrorist fighters or Syrian fighters. A few weeks ago, the parquet magistraat literally said, "Miss F., you make me feel uncomfortable. Your story is not credible." According to the federal prosecutor's office, Mrs. F. still has no sense of guilt. That dates back a few weeks ago. You can guess twice where Mrs. F. is now. You don't know. She's not in jail. After five months, she's released without an ankle bracelet. Those are the facts. This way we can better control the people you're supposed to be bringing back. Minister Van Quickenborne, according to you, we are safe and it is certain that the women will distance themselves from their extremist ideas because they have signed an honorary declaration. Those are your words. An explanation of such a person's honor doesn't comfort me very much, but if that's the value meter for you, so be it. Let's get this straightened out. Your style, which is a bit derogatory, is beginning to become known to me. You quoted me and you thanked me, but where do I ask to actively repatriate these women? You love to put those words in my mouth, but of course I never did. Case on a case-by-case basis, they must be tried and punished on the spot. I thought Mr Vandenput's suggestion was very good, because the Deradex wings are still not full. Are the returned women in those Deradex wings? They're scattered in different prisons. In Hasselt and Ittre? Are they in a specialised compartment where they can be deradicalized? Minister Wilmès, we will have a detailed account of this whole repatriation procedure. What worries me is that active repatriation is not yet calculated, but will be of the same order of magnitude as the fact finding mission there. You are talking about a few thousand euros: 2,800 euros for plane tickets and so on. However, I read that a Polish plane was chartered because our army could not help us. I will ask in writing what the final account of this rescue operation is. I would have much preferred to see that money go to the numerous victims of terrorists.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic560x.u17	It would be helpful if all the members of the committee were given the figures in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic560x.u18	I thank the ministers for their answers. Mr Metsu, trial there is the best option, but it must be done in accordance with the international standards that we have supported. However, that best option is not available on the spot. Of course, the second best option is to transfer children only. That's what we've been trying to do for years. But if, as a rule of law, we have the courage to condemn mothers who have something on their backs, and the magistrate has condemned them to maximum punishment, then it is not up to the Minister of Justice to judge that. As a Member of Parliament, I have a little more freedom of speech. I can say perfectly that I am pleased that the magistrate has applied the maximum punishments. I dare to trust that they will be maintained in the event of opposition or appeal. I have just argued for severity in the execution of the sentence. Of course, all this must be done within the legal framework. I am an advocate of the idea that the legal framework may need to be amended in the future, but this should be done under strict conditions. I just heard that a statement of honour is not enough. Of course, an explanation of honour is not enough! However, such a statement on honour is not a blank cheque either. I assume that the women in question will disappear for years. They will be followed up there and their statement on honour will be verified in accordance with their personality evolution. I have also heard some colleagues criticise the discreet nature of this operation. I don't see how we could do that indiscreetly without endangering people's safety. I believe that an option has been chosen here with a balance between security and humanity. I think that balance has been found. I also realise that this is not entirely risk-free, but no sentence is totally risk-free, not even the execution of the sentence under common law. We're dealing with terrorist crimes here. There, security assessment will be carried out with even more attention than in other forms of crime. I think history has taught us that and the government has learned from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic560x.u19	Mr Vandenput does not want to replicate anymore. Are there any additional answers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic560x.u20	Mrs Samyn, you asked another question about the sixth woman. I thought I had answered that in my introduction. The investigation of the sixth lady was completed in her absence, when she was still in Syria. She was referred in absentia to the courthouse and we expect a verdict by the end of the year. There was also a question about Deradex. The ladies are all followed in the different prisons. If additional measures are needed, we will take them, but at the moment it has not proved necessary to put them in a Deradex wing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic560x.u21	Are there any further questions or replies? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic560x.u22	On the understanding that we can receive the cost figures in writing, I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Foreign Affairs for their explanations in this specially convened committee during the holiday period. I would also like to thank Members for their contributions.
