ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u1	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, you are right that the consumer no longer sees the forest through the trees when he wishes to report or complain, or wants to consult his rights himself. All these hotlines have been set up from an etatical perspective. Each administration, agency or dispute resolution body shall have a contact point. However, the consumer sometimes does not know where his problem is and often gets the answer: 'Sorry, we are not competent'. I wish to organise this unique window from the concerns and views of the consumer. It is not my calling to combine all the services that are now divided between federal, regional and community levels or the private sector. That would not work and would certainly not serve the consumer. It is my intention, however, to give all these rooms one front door, where the consumer comes in and goes out again with a specific answer. This virtual address will be supported by a kind of contact centre that provides the notification, question or complaint to the competent department, which ensures the follow-up. The consumer gets a unique follow-up number and can then consult where his file is in the process. This same virtual address will also make the rights of the consumer accessible. As you rightly point out, the hotline or the unique window will not only exist virtually. It becomes a hybrid model where the consumer in person can also offer himself with his problem if desired, or by telephone or by letter. Every consumer is my concern. The note to the government will be submitted to the IKW in the near future to be scheduled later. This instrument will, where possible, standardise, simplify and make it easier to consult internally with a follow-up system. It will also be able to work in support of more efficient, time-saving dispute resolution. Since each file is unique and a notification differs from a complaint or request for information, I cannot give an average lead time. They would not even say much, because some answers may be a referral and others a conclusion of a dispute settlement based on several file documents that have been difficult to collect. To close, I cannot stress enough how important it is to collect as many notifications as possible. On the basis of these reports, there will be analyses on which the Economic Inspectorate will orient itself to organise inspections.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u2	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I am glad to hear that progress is being made and that work is being done on the hotline. As far as timing is concerned, I understand that this point will be discussed at IKW level shortly. My question is also to what extent consultations have been held with the Länder on this matter. After all, I do not think it is always so clear to a consumer at what level of competence an issue is at.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u3	Mrs Van Bossuyt, after the IKW-consultation there will be further consultations with the Länder. So that's what's on our schedule.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u4	Mr President, I tabled my question a long time ago, but now the question of dormant energy contracts has recently become topical again, in particular in relation to energy supplier Mega. That supplier originally offered consumers very advantageous contracts, which then suddenly became much less advantageous after a while. I had asked at the time, among other things, what fine Mega is looking at and whether compensation will be provided for. It is now clear that this could be a fine of more than EUR 100,000. However, on the basis of the information I already have, I would like to ask you some additional questions. I read that customers who have been overpaying for years have no other solution than trying to obtain financial compensation from the supplier or to switch to another provider. You know as well as I do that it is not as easy for all consumers to take these steps. Will a kind of helpline be made available to those affected so that they can obtain the compensation they are entitled to without too much effort? Are there similar studies against other energy suppliers? Is it true that the supplier Eneco has already taken the necessary steps? Minister for Energy Van der Straeten has already stated that, from her power, she wants to take action against the problem of dormant energy contracts, but will you, as Secretary of State for Consumer Protection, also take the necessary measures to put an end to such dormant contracts?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u5	Mrs Van Bossuyt, following the minutes drawn up by the Economic Inspectorate, the administration will propose a transaction which, as you said, could reach a high level, namely a minimum of EUR 208 and a maximum of EUR 200,000. In case of non-payment, the file will be delivered to the court. I don't have any information about any compensations you're referring to, because of Mega in relation to damaged customers. Of course, we will continue to follow up on this issue ourselves. As there are currently no signals indicating that other energy suppliers are also using such practices, there are currently no other studies on these specific practices. The Economic Inspectorate is particularly vigilant about the practices of energy suppliers and carries out checks in this sector on a regular basis. The Committee on Energy, as you yourself have mentioned, has approved a bill banning dormant contracts. This legislative proposal is also part of the government's policy to provide more transparency for consumers in the energy market. Together with Parliament, we want to improve consumer protection in this way. I will, of course, take this into account in the evaluation of the Energy Consumer Agreement provided for in the coalition agreement to make the energy market even more accessible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u6	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. In the end, you are talking about making the energy market even more accessible. It is particularly important to make the energy market even more transparent for consumers. Often it is not clear who, what, where, and how much one pays. That's important to take. We will agree that energy is essential and that everyone should have access to it. We need all of that, by the way, more and more by electrification. We're following this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u7	Mrs Van Bossuyt, the Economic Inspectorate has launched a new investigation into IM Academy at my request. I can't give you any further information on the state of this investigation because of the secret of the investigation. In general, the Economic Inspection on pyramid sales controls will carry out a legal analysis and, if necessary, inform relevant actors, such as hosting providers, about the modus operandi. When useful data appear in files, such as advertisements for pyramid systems, those responsible will be identified by the Economic Inspectorate, an investigation will be carried out into the suspects and appropriate measures will be taken, such as the delivery of the file to the competent public prosecutor. As far as the victims of pyramid sales are concerned, it is always advised to report this to the hotline. Betting on sensitisation is the best way to prevent consumers from becoming victims of pyramid sales. The FPS Economy warns about pyramid systems through its website, its social media channels, press releases and the conduct of awareness campaigns. This year, a awareness campaign will be launched specifically aimed at raising awareness among young people about pyramid sales. The FPS Economy also provides info sessions and webinars. Recently, for example, the FPS Economy organized a number of webinars in the framework of the Fraud Prevention Month, including an over-pyramid sale. The legislation states that it is prohibited to set up, manage or promote a pyramid system, whereby the consumer has the opportunity, for payment, to receive a fee that would result from the introduction of new consumers into the system rather than from the sale or consumption of products. Managers of pyramid systems know the legislative framework well and sometimes move into a grey area, making it difficult in practice to demonstrate that revenue is generated mainly by the introduction of new consumers or businesses, or from the sale of products. Case-by-case assessment should be made as to whether or not it is a pyramid sale. As far as the legislative initiatives on pyramid sales are concerned, the study will have to show whether they need to be adapted. This will then have to be done at European level because the legislation on pyramid sales is a transposition of the European directive on unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices. This is a directive with maximum harmonisation. This implies that at the level of possible commercial practices and B2C relationships, no national legislation can be adopted that goes beyond what was laid down in this Directive. The Economic Inspectorate has taken the initiative to ask the members of the CPC network about any pyramid sales issues. If the survey shows that it would be necessary to discuss any problems, dialogue with the European Commission could take place. Furthermore, I can also tell you that my contacts with the FSMA show that she has delivered a file to the public prosecutor in this matter. It is best to ask the Minister of Justice what is the follow-up to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the actions taken at various levels. Data are collected, among other things, which is certainly a good thing to be able to map the problem. On the basis of what results, the legislation applicable to unfair commercial practices at European level may then be adopted at European level. That is certainly a good thing. You also say that victims of the pyramid system can report to a hotline, but unfortunately there is still some shame on people to file a complaint, so I think the number of reports coming in is an understatement of the real problem. Finally, you are referring to a awareness campaign that will be launched, mainly aimed at young people. That is certainly not an unnecessary luxury, so that they realize what they are sometimes doing. The thresholds in social media are very low and people sometimes start things without being aware of the consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u9	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, as regards your question about the reimbursement to the consumer by cheque, I would like first of all to point out that Ryanair has a legal obligation to pay full compensation to the consumer in the case of flights cancelled by the airline. This legal obligation is contained in the European Regulation No. 261 of 2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2004 establishing common rules on compensation and assistance to air passengers in the event of denied boarding and cancellation or long delay of flights. The Economic Inspection shall not be responsible for monitoring the application of this Regulation. I would refer you to my colleague Gilkinet, Minister for Mobility. On the basis of the legislation under my jurisdiction, I refer to the prohibition of unfair commercial practices, contained in Book 6 Mark practices and Consumer Protection of the Economic Law Code. This law does not prohibit the refund of consumers using a means of payment other than that used by the consumer for initial payment. In so far as the general conditions clearly specify the manner in which a normal refund will be made, and provided that this is possible under the said Regulation. 261 of 2004, a refund by bank cheque is not prohibited. Nevertheless, the prohibition of aggressive commercial practices must also be respected. In other words, reimbursement by means of a bank cheque should in any case not entail costs for the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u10	Madam Secretary of State, you are partly referring to your colleague Gilkinet. I've questioned him several times, not specifically about the bank cheque, but about the passenger rights. That is the directive to which you refer. According to him, there is no problem at all, while we receive other reports. Thank you for your explanation of your part of this problem. Especially the last part about collection costs is very important. As we have heard, it costs the consumer 35 euros to collect the cheque. That can't be the intention. It is often about a high percentage of what the flight itself has cost. So we need to look at what can be done there to avoid consumers having to incur such collection costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u11	Mr President, this question also dates back a while ago. In the meantime, a lot of solutions have already been found. Madam Secretary of State, I nevertheless wanted to hear from you how many customers were ultimately affected by having to pay the double invoice. In the meantime, is there any insight into who the problem was? After all, everyone pointed at each other. In the meantime, have all consumers been reimbursed for the amount they have wrongly paid double?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u12	Mrs Van Bossuyt, your question dates back a while ago. I took note of the incident at the time. We have been in contact with Carrefour on this. With regard to the figures you ask, the company has reported that it does not publish figures. So we do not have real numbers ourselves. In reply to your question who caused the incident, I can tell you that Febelfin indicated that the Belgian banks were not at the origin of the incident. The technical error was in a miscommunication between two banks, namely the French bank Crédit Mutuel and Mastercard and the payment processor Market Pay. Mastercard then took the necessary steps to make the refunds to all customers involved as soon as possible. Carrefour has stated that it has taken its responsibility to the customers and will continue to take responsibility. Carrefour's customers didn't have to take any steps themselves. The reimbursement was entirely automatic through the banks. Mastercard and Carrefour deplore the unfortunate coincidence and will ensure that such technical errors are a thing of the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u13	Madam Secretary of State, especially your last point is important, that everyone has now been repaid their unjustly paid money, which is a good thing, but above all that in the future it must be avoided that such matters still occur. It may be an unfortunate coincidence, but we must do everything we can to avoid such errors in the future, so as not to undermine consumer confidence in payment systems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, I would like to stress that the answers to the technical questions concerning the purchase of goods in a British web shop, i.e. non-EU web shop, were already given in the past by the FPS Finance, General Administration of Customs and Excise. This was at that time communicated through various channels, including via the VRT. I would like to refer you to the Minister of Finance for more information on the new customs rules relating to purchases in non-EU webshops. When a consumer buys outside the European Union, the rules that protect him or her do not apply. He or she must therefore be particularly careful. In the context of Brexit, however, there is a difference. When he buys a property on a UK site, the pre-contractual information obligations remain and the site must inform him that he has to pay additional VAT and import duties. The Brexit pages of the FPS Economy website contain these elements. Bpost also sends information letters to consumers who shop online in webshops outside Europe with the warning for VAT costs and additional import costs as of 1 July. The consumer must therefore be informed about each purchase because sellers in the United Kingdom use different ways to offset VAT and import duties on EU customers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u15	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, that information is very important. Whether one buys something on the internet in Russia, China, South Africa, the United States or in the Netherlands, clicking or clicking on it all takes the same time, so it doesn't make any difference. Indeed, people are often unaware of the fact that they buy something outside the European Union or in the United Kingdom. It will therefore be very important to continue to inform people as much as possible about this and to warn them of the additional costs that may arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for referring to your questions. It's gonna be a pretty long answer. I am aware of the practices of printers manufacturers. In May 2017, a study of planned aging was carried out at the FPS Economy by RDC Environment. This study shows that cases have been identified in this area. For example, reports appear that the printer's ink pattern is low while there is still enough ink in the cartridge. Or that we're out of ink while the ink pattern isn't empty. It is often found that printers are equipped with a chip that counts the number of prints and blocks the printer after a certain number. I am also aware of the default notice of Test Purchase against HP. The consumer organisation refers to previous court rulings. However, the Italian competition authority's decision is the subject of ongoing judicial proceedings, so no final decision has yet been taken. HP has informed me this week that it is in accordance with the decision, but has also appealed. In 2016, the Economic Inspectorate received four notifications against HP. Following the research, HP adapted the printer packaging, informing the consumer that the printer supports dynamic security and is only intended for use with cartridges with the original HP chip. HP clarifies that cartridges with a non-HP chip may not work or may not work in the future. For disgruntled consumers, HP also screwed the unsolicited update of the firmware back to the version of the printer purchase date, allowing them to print back with the non-HP cartridges. In 2020, the Economic Inspectorate received two notifications against HP. The investigation showed that the packaging mentioned the notification of the dynamic security. In 2021, the Economic Inspection received one notification against HP to date. My administration has no specific figures on the price difference between proprietary ink cartridges and cheaper alternatives to ink cartridges. This price difference in itself is also not a breach of consumer law. HP indicates no policy to restrict the use of third-party ink cartridges in its printers and generally allows the use of non-original ink cartridges, including refilled and revised ink cartridges. The only exception in this area is the use of ink cartridges containing a cloned security ship that mimics HP's security ship which infringes HP's intellectual property rights, HP cannot warn consumers about counterfeiting, endanger the integrity of the security of the print system and create a negative impact on the environment. As part of the Green Deal and the recent European Circular Economy Action Plan, Europe has announced a series of measures to combat planned ageing and encourage producers to design more sustainable products. I fully support this European initiative. More specifically, the European Circular Economy Action Plan includes a legislative initiative for electronics and ICT based on the Ecodesign Directive, so that devices are designed for energy efficiency and sustainability, repairability, improveability, maintenance, reuse and recycling. The forthcoming Ecodesign Work Plan will address this further. Printers and consumables, such as cartridges, would also be covered unless the sector reaches an ambitious voluntary agreement, according to the European Action Plan. A European return programme for the return or resale of these devices could also be envisaged. The federal circular economy action plan is being prepared and is being further discussed in the coming weeks. It includes a set of regulatory, informative and supportive measures to combat programmed ageing. I don't have any more information at this stage. In a response, HP stated that they were already working with the re-industrialing industry, i.e. the re-fabricated industry, to that voluntary agreement to improve the environmental performance of graphic equipment put on the European market. The voluntary agreement is currently being examined by the European Commission. Member States, including Belgium, were and will continue to be involved in the process that has successfully addressed energy and resource efficiency and the information requirement of the graphical equipment. This has contributed to the European Union's energy efficiency agenda, the promotion of the circular economy, tackling climate change and achieving better regulation objectives. Work is also underway to reduce the number of different models of ink patterns, while balancing the need to develop new products and technologies to achieve HP's ambitious sustainability objectives. HP has joined the UN Race to Zero and has recently announced that it wants to be carbon neutral in the field of printing material by 2030. The products are designed in such a way that they can last for a long time and raw materials are used efficiently. When the products finally reach the end of their life, the materials can be re-used thanks to repair, reuse and recycling programmes. This keeps them their highest value for as long as possible. The circular flow prevents waste and offers materials and products a new life. HP reports that they offer take-back programs in 67 countries through a global network of re-use and recycling providers. The consumer can return the ink and toner cartridges free of charge at approximately 17,500 approved locations. In most countries, pick-up and take-back options are offered free of charge. There is also a program to use plastic from recycled original cartridges and recycled bottles and coat hangers to create new ink cartridges. Given the avoidance of a conflict model between producer and consumer, I will remain in dialogue with companies so that consumers are not misled and safety is guaranteed. Furthermore, I do not wish to prejudge the current legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the comprehensive answer. You refer to HP's reaction to this, but of course it is a problem that is not limited to printers only. With printers, the problem clearly comes to light. Fortunately, there are also manufacturers of printers who recently also offer devices with refillable ink reservoirs that are easy to refill for the user. Despite HP's answer, I can't get rid of the impression that it's mainly up to some printers to sell cheap printers and then sell expensive cartridges. The fact that they take back free cartridges continues to cause a lot of waste. This is contrary to a policy of avoiding as much waste as possible. We are therefore looking forward to the initiatives that will be taken to address this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u18	Madam Secretary of State, I was surprised to hear that people are now informed that in the beginning, apparently, a chip was used to determine the number of prints and the cartridge is no longer working. I find that unimaginable, to be honest. It is good that this is no longer being used and that the information on this is clear. It is good that HP will take a number of actions, including recycling and others, but Mr Gilissen already referred to the fact that the problem is wider than the cartridges for printers alone. This is a very clear case of planned aging, but it is a broader, general problem that we unfortunately see in many different products. Especially in the context of sustainability, it is important to put an end to this and to send the message to all producers that planned ageing is simply not possible. We hear this, for example, about mobile phones and so many other products. It is very important that the message is given that planned aging cannot be done. It may even be good for a producer to build a quality label, so people know that if they buy that particular product, it will last a long time. Let me give you an example, but I do not want to advertise: if you have to buy a new washing machine, consumers might like to pay EUR 100 more for a brand that is known to last for a very long time, and then they will buy that brand and not another. Producers can therefore even make this a quality label. That is the direction we must take. My group is certainly looking forward to taking steps on this issue. In this context, we asked at the last committee meeting to organise a hearing on the circular economy, in which we would like to hear different voices, both from producers and consumer organisations, but also from others, such as repairers. This will certainly include the planned ageing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u19	Madam Secretary of State, few reports have yet been received at the hotline, but I do not think the problem should be underestimated. Many consumers don't bother anymore. They don't think it's gonna do anything to report, though the problem is big. Action must certainly be taken. You refer to the European level. This is indeed something that needs to be addressed at European level. There will be actions within the framework of the Green Deal, but let us certainly not wait for that. We can also take action at Belgian level. You refer to the federal action plan which includes a number of measures against the planned ageing. We're looking forward to that. As the honourable Member says, this is a major problem that affects not only printers but also many other electronic devices. Consumers feel bought. They buy something very cheap, but they soon face additional costs. We need to stop that. Moreover, this is not ecologically sound. Let's make a fist together against that planned aging.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your comprehensive reply. It is very good that this can be reported. It is important that such matters come to light. This creates a shock effect on the market. Everyone learns from such a practical example and is more aware of this problem, thus addressing it on different fronts. There needs to be more attention to circular economy, but it still needs to remain responsible and profitable. It's got to be a smart system. It can't be that someone has to throw something away when it's not worn out yet. A label for longer use or a promotion for a brand is certainly good, but it might be good to better mention the requirements of a product. For example, if people buy a printer, they can already be informed via the label about how their toners will work. More information should be provided than just the price and the label. For example, any additional costs should also be mentioned. We continue to fight for a sustainable but also profitable economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u21	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, in my communication of 1 April 2021, I referred in particular to the fact that there may be coronavouchers where there is no period of validity. They therefore apply in principle for an indefinite period of time to book a trip. The Ministerial Decision of 19 March 2020 only establishes a minimum period of validity of one year for coronavouchers. The reimbursements by organisers of the first vouchers will in practice not reach their final deadline until early October. Such refunds may be made up to six months after the traveller's application, and this application could be made at the earliest one year after the voucher was issued. Since the first vouchers could not be issued until 20 March 2020, the first theoretical deadline would only expire on 20 September 2021. Together with the special consultative committee on consumption, I wanted to underline in my communication that after one year travellers often have a choice between reimbursement or booking a trip. This signal and therefore the analysis carried out by the Special Advisory Committee on Consumption are important in order not to cause an unjustified and hasty run at the travel offices. The consumer's right of choice between reimbursement and travel booking does not expire after one year and one day. This is entirely in line with what Minister Dermagne has said to your question. Only the right to reimbursement arising one year after the issue of the coronavoucher shall be subject to the ordinary limitation period of 10 years. A distinction should therefore be made between the right to convert a valid voucher into a journey and the right to reimbursement. If the publisher of the coronavoucher has effectively determined a period of validity of one year and therefore no further bookings can be made, a possible extension of this period of validity may be acceptable provided that the coronavoucher still complies with the conditions of the Ministerial Decision of 19 March 2020, such as insolvency protection. The Special Consultative Commission on Consumption is an advisory body in which both consumer organisations and businesses from all sectors are represented. It has recently issued on its own initiative a non-binding policy opinion on the need for better information for travellers in relation to the coronavouchers issued to which I refer in my communication. Assuralia, the federation of insurers, sits on the Special Committee on Consumption and agrees with this view. She explicitly confirmed her consent to me. The various federations of package travel organisers, such as the VVR and the BTO, but also organisations such as Test Purchase are part of the Special Advisory Committee on Consumption and explicitly agree with this vision. SOS Travel, which represents several hundred package tour operators and is not part of the Special Advisory Committee on Consumption, also welcomes this analysis. We are doing everything we can to ensure that consumers' rights are safeguarded. Once everything is finalized, I will communicate on all aspects of this. I can say in advance that the deadline for reimbursement to travellers must be respected and should not be jeopardised by the government's initiative. As I mentioned earlier, it is the federal government's intention to provide direct loans to package travel organisers for vouchers covered by the Ministerial Decision of 19 March 2020 on the reimbursement of cancelled package travel. Indeed, we have already examined many slopes for the loans to ensure sufficient liquidity for the tour operators. The budget provides for an amount of EUR 250 million to finance these loans. If all actors cooperate, the legislative initiative will be dealt with in the Chamber before the summer. It is intended that these loans will be available to the package tour operators in good time in order to allow the consumer to pay out within the prescribed time limits. Package tour operators will have to demonstrate that they were financially sound before the end of December 2019, in accordance with the European Commission's Temporary Framework. It is intended that any package tour operator, whatever its size, who has issued full and valid coronavouchers under the abovementioned Ministerial Decree, will be able to obtain an advantageous loan to repay these vouchers. We are committed to keeping as few bankruptcies as possible of healthy package tour operators, because we want to keep both employment and economic activity in Belgium as much as possible. The federal government is therefore very flexible. I would like to thank my colleagues Dermagne and Van Peteghem and Prime Minister De Croo, but also the services of the Treasury for their good cooperation in this dossier since 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u22	Madam Secretary of State, your answer included a lot of interesting elements. Firstly, as regards the period of validity of the coronavouchers, I had already asked your colleague Dermagne a question. He referred to a period of ten years and made no distinction between reimbursement or rebooking of travel. You do, however. You say that the ten-year ordinary limitation period refers only to the right of consumers to receive a refund. You further stated that rebooking can be undetermined in time, you did not mention an end date for that. Within the Special Consultative Committee on Consumption, everyone would agree with that. In other words, consumers can keep track of a coronavoucher indefinitely and book a new trip with it, even after ten years. At least that is how I understood your answer. You also said that it is important to safeguard the rights of consumers. That is, of course, true. The vouchers issued from March to June 2020 shall be covered by the Guarantee Fund. You explicitly confirm here that you guarantee that those coronavouchers are covered. In any case, consumers should be sure of that. With regard to the coronavoucherbank, you hope to come forward with concrete initiatives before the summer. It actually takes an incredibly long time because in the Netherlands they are already working on it. September is also the deadline for vouchers initially issued for reimbursement. I hope everything will be complete then. After all, we must prevent healthy businesses in the heavily affected travel sector from going bankrupt, which people have already seen enough black snow in the meantime. There's a lot of uncertainty about that coronavoucher bank. Many tour operators assume that the coronavoucherbank is already a fact. Apparently, this is still not the case. That is not a positive signal in relation to this sector. I would urge you to come forward with concrete proposals before the summer so that, in September, when that deadline for reimbursement of those first vouchers is in place, the sector can call on that coronavoucher bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u23	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, a number of Belgian webshops, including H&M, but also Michael Kors and Samsung, are increasingly showing up with a new icon when it comes to payment options. That's Klarna's icon. Through Klarna, consumers can postpone payment of their purchase for up to 21 days. The same principle as a Visa account. We find that in Belgium about 200,000 people pay every month through this new Klarna app. Klarna is one of the many fintech companies that have made a strong advance in recent years. This term refers to companies that combine financial services or products with innovative technology and thus complement the already existing offerings of banks. Experts point out that there are a number of risks associated with such forms of payment. In this way, many people are tempted to buy more impulsively or consumers who have greater wishes than what they can afford can quickly build up debts. Moreover, it does not benefit the parcel economy, which sometimes puts high pressure on our postal companies. That will certainly contribute further to that. I have a number of questions about this. First of all, these fintech companies are quite new and are also on the rise. What rules should they abide by? Is there a need for an additional legislative framework in view of the new type of activities they entail? Secondly, has the FPS Economy received any reports on this? If so, what are the complaints about? Do you have any idea how many of the 200,000 users in Belgium are still unable to pay their bills after 21 days? It would be interesting to get an insight into what happens next. Thirdly, international research has already been carried out into the motivations of people to pay through such a system. Do you intend to carry out such an investigation in our country? Fourthly, some countries in which Klarna has so far achieved great successes do not believe in self-regulation. That is, of course, the often heard argument from those companies themselves. After all, it is the consumer who chooses to pay in this way, so it is their responsibility. Australia recently announced a code of conduct for such companies. Are you in favour of such codes of conduct? Is there a need to draw that up? In other words, have there been any complaints about it? What rules should these companies comply with? Finally, do you intend to inform the consumer about its potential dangers? It turns out that not everyone is sufficiently aware of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u24	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere and Mrs Dierick, Klarna has obtained the status of a credit institution from the Swedish regulator. Klarna is controlled by the Swedish financial regulator and, on the basis of the European passport principle, offers its services throughout Europe, including in our country. Klarna is subject to the current rules on consumer protection in Belgium. Other known ex post payment providers that are used relatively frequently have the status of payment institution and are therefore also subject to the prudential supervision of their national supervisor. Fintech companies operating in the payment world should follow the Belgian law of 11 March 2018. This is the law on the statute and supervision of payment institutions and electronic money institutions, access to the business of payment service providers and to the activity of issuing electronic money and access to payment systems. This is based on the payment service directive of 2015, the payment service directive 2. The law defines the payment services that can be offered to the public and for which a licence must be obtained from the National Bank of Belgium. The law prescribes the licensing requirements for and prudential control mechanisms that are continuously followed. These include good corporate governance, solvency requirements, protection of client funds, operational and IT security and the protection of clients and their data. The aim of the law is, among other things, to introduce more competition on the payment market. Many new players are now active in Belgium and Europe. It goes without saying that traditional banks also offer new innovative payment services. The companies that offer afterwards pay are not the first in the chain. It is up to the webshop that offers this payment option to inform consumers very clearly about the principle of post-payment. The analysis of this payment modality on a number of web stores shows that the consumer's contact and order details are transmitted and that the payment service provider, the fintech company, then makes the assessment of whether the customer is accepted and can pay for his order in this way. If post-payment is not accepted, the consumer must pay his order in a different way. On certain websites it is also clearly stated that the purchase amount is limited when the ex post payment system is first used. It is also up to the consumer to make his purchases in full awareness, taking into account his budget. Invoices that remain unpaid are subsequently called in collection offices, which in Belgium are also subject to the legal rules on information to consumers. From 2018 to today, 12 notifications were submitted to the hotline referring directly or indirectly to Klarna. Four of these complaints were against a Belgian authorised collection agency entrusted by Klarna with the recovery of Klarna's unpaid invoices. The offer of post-payment is fairly recent in Belgium and is still offered on a relatively limited scale, compared to some other countries. Given the low number of complaints on this issue, I do not think it is appropriate at the moment to draw up a code of conduct. This does not, of course, rule out the possibility that, if there were a significant increase in the number of notifications against this payment method, consultation with companies would be initiated. It is also important that the web shops that work with such partners themselves make it very clear on their website that a third party will collect their invoice. A possible need for some regulation should also be considered from a European perspective, given that it often concerns companies operating cross-border. Within the National Bank of Belgium, the National Retail Payments Committee, the NRPC, was established to discuss retail payments issues. The purpose of this Committee is to facilitate the discussions between the parties involved in retail payments in Belgium in order to identify new trends and developments in this area which could benefit the functioning of the Belgian economy. Indeed, an efficient retail payments market can have a positive impact on all economic operators. In Belgium there are 30 payment institutions, four payment institutions offering account aggregation services and six electronic money institutions. The degree of innovation at the fintech level is, of course, different from one institution to another.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u25	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your comprehensive answer. If I understand correctly, an app like Klarna falls under the same rules as Visa, for example. That legislation has been amended quite recently, 2018 has not been that long ago. Of course, this market is changing very quickly. Klarna is certainly much less known to the consumer. Maybe that's what the problem is. At Visa, many people know what the system is. At Klarna there is clearly less fame about it. More competition in the market is good, as you said, but that does not alter the fact that the system presents a number of risks to a limited group of consumers. A number of countries are taking initiatives and measures to better inform and protect consumers. You're saying that 12 reports are pretty low, and that's right, I can follow you in that. It is also not so exceptional, as it is still quite recent and unknown in our country. It is good that you stress that a code of conduct would be possible if there were a problem in some time. It is also good to ensure that consumers are well informed. Of course, this could be done even better via the H&M website and via the FPS Economy, just to avoid any future increase in complaints.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u26	Madam Secretary of State, two citizens have recently been alerted to the problem of the sale by telecom operators of their customers' data. This couple of citizens had indeed offered their 12-year-old daughter his first Proximus prepaid card. In one day, the girl received no fewer than four calls from telemarketers. Apart from the disproportionate invasion of privacy that this situation reveals, especially for a child, it seems worrying that citizens are exposed daily to telemarketing of such magnitude. Proximus did not violate the law by selling the data of this 12-year-old child: the European ePrivacy Directive leaves Member States the choice of opt-in or opt-out for the sale by telecom operators of their subscribers' data. In Belgium, by default, telecom operators have the right to sell data. This is the choice our country has made. After some research, this provision is found in Article VI.110 §2 of our Code of Economic Law. In Belgium, all mobile operators therefore have the right to sell the data of their users of prepaid cards. In order to preserve their privacy, users must actively contact their operator in order to explicitly request that they be removed from the telemarketing lists. For what reasons did Belgium prefer to opt-out rather than opt-in, even though the European Directive gave it a margin of discretion and choice in this matter? Have other countries given preference to opt-in? Is a text under consideration to change this provision of the Code of Economic Law? In addition to Proximus, which telecom operators sell data? Have any of them chosen not to use these marketing practices? It appears that the Proximus Helpdesk does not provide the contact information of the Federal Telecommunications Ombudsman when consumers request it. Is that normal?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u27	Mr Vicar, thank you for your question. As you have already explained, the ePrivacy Directive obliges Member States to apply an express prior consent (opt-in) system to unsolicited communications made using call machines, faxes and e-mail, including text messages. On the other hand, for other direct prospecting practices, Member States may choose to apply an opt-in or opt-out system. In Belgium, the opt-out system was retained for voice calls. This type of communication is allowed if there is no obvious option left to the recipient. However, the Code of Economic Law provides for the use of a recipient's telephone number for direct marketing purposes with the possibility for the King to take specific measures. The opt-out system maintains a balance between consumer and business rights. It offers the possibility of not imposing a cumbersome process for businesses and avoiding barriers to trade. Indeed, when a consumer withdraws his or her consent, this results in heavy and costly treatment for businesses that are not proportional to the intended purpose. The opt-out system is sufficient to allow other people to stop receiving calls if they do not want to. More concretely, this system was implemented in Belgium via the list "Don't call me anymore!" and based on Article VI.110 § 2 of the Code of Economic Law. At the time, an analogy was made with the Bel-me-niet Register of the Netherlands. My administration does not have any official data on this since this is a national issue specific to each Member State. Nevertheless, it appears that a majority of EU Member States have chosen the opt-out system and that only a few European countries have chosen opt-in, such as Germany, Austria and Lithuania. Similar opt-out systems like the Belgian list "Don't call me anymore!" These included the Netherlands (Bel-me-niet Register), France (Bloctel), Spain (Lista Robinson), Italy (Registro pubblico delle opposizioni), Ireland (National Directory Database) and the former Member State of the United Kingdom (Telephone Preference Service). There are currently no plans to amend the relevant section of the Act. However, the provisions derive from the ePrivacy Directive, which is currently being revised, and will become the ePrivacy Regulation in the future. The proposal is currently the subject of a trialogue at European level, but according to the latest state of affairs, this regulation would also allow Member States to provide an opt-out system for voice calls. In addition, in the case of direct prospecting via electronic communication services, the identity of a reachable line must be provided and must clearly indicate, by means of a prefix (specific code) that it is a commercial call. As long as the Regulation has not been adopted, the Belgian State cannot rule on the practical national implementation of this provision. The Economic Inspectorate, which is responsible for monitoring compliance with the provisions of the Code of Economic Law concerning unsolicited communications (direct marketing) does not currently have specific data in this regard. The Economic Inspectorate attaches particular importance to this issue. With regard to the resale of data, it is important to note that the Act of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications also regulates these practices only in the case of resale to telephone directories and information services, as referred to in articles 45, 46 and 133. This is followed by the Belgian Institute of Postal Services and Telecommunications (IBPT). As regards the monitoring of compliance with data protection rules in general, if the resale of personal data is carried out by operators, in accordance with the regulations, including the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), this is a competence of the Data Protection Authority. According to information received from the IBPT, competent for the application of article 136 of the Law on Electronic Communications, the provider, in this case the telecom operator Proximus, must cooperate with the mediation service for telecommunications and inform users of the remedies available to that body. This information should be provided in consultation with the mediation service.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u28	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply and for your efforts in French. I think consumers have a right to an informed choice. If we could choose opt in, the operators, at the time of the subscription, would ask their customers the question. Their customers would therefore be informed that by checking the box, they provide access to business processes with their telephone number. I hope you will write this royal decree, since the King can eventually change the choice. I also hope that we will move forward in this area and thus better protect the use of data, which is a very sensitive subject at a time when social networks are doing anything with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u29	Mr President, since Mr Prévot had also introduced a question, part of the answer will be given in French. I am well aware of the phenomenon of dropshipping. This sales technique is not new and is not only present in Belgium. Unfortunately, the sellers' method is not always very clear. Beginner entrepreneurs sometimes think that they can quickly become rich through dropshipping. Furthermore, the correct rules are not always followed or consumers are not clearly informed. This situation is not always fair for the bona fide trader or the local trader. It is not always known whether foreign online shops comply with Belgian and European legislation. Moreover, not all dropshippings should be judged in the same way. But consumers must be careful. I therefore follow closely the prevention policy of my administration in this regard. The FPS Economy regularly warns consumers about unfair and misleading practices and about dropshipping, including via social media and messages on its website. He also previously campaigned "Don't fall into the trap" to warn consumers about online fraud. My administration has already examined the possibility of collecting specific statistics. Unfortunately, this is a rather specific and untransparent e-commerce technique, which rarely appears clearly in an initial analysis of alerts. Capturing the phenomenon automatically is even less obvious. Very often, even complainants do not realize this online selling technique. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the current legislation already provides for the obligation to provide consumers with information on, for example, delivery methods, delivery times and additional costs. In other words, the company is already obliged to inform the consumer that the supply of goods may take a long time and that, if the supplier is established outside the European Union, VAT and customs duties may be payable. The Regulation is derived from the European Union's Maximum Harmonisation Directive 2011/83 on Consumer Rights. The Economic Inspectorate shall ensure compliance with this provision and the proper functioning of the market through compliance with existing economic regulations. It does so in a variety of ways, ranging from the simple provision of information and support, to the issuance of formal warnings and, where appropriate, the verbalization of offenders. It may also ask the authorities of other European Member States to act. The Economic Inspectorate does not act arbitrarily. The effective performance of its monitoring function is the result of a strategic analysis of information and instructions from various sources. In addition to the findings of inspectors in the field, the reports received by the Economic Inspectorate's point of contact from consumers, businesses and stakeholders, such as consumer organisations, are of great importance. It also receives instructions and requests from national and foreign authorities. There are no figures on the number of Belgian webshops working with foreign platforms whose products are not always in line with European safety standards. It is also particularly difficult to trace the distribution chain, identify the actual sellers and thus map the phenomenon. In general, however, the Economic Inspectorate notes that products coming from Asian countries are often not in line with European safety standards. When the Economic Inspection is informed of unsafe products, it tries to contact the relevant online webshop to first request the take-down of the online product and to request the sales figures of the product on the Belgian market. If necessary, it shall also order the recall of the product from the market or from the end-users. It is unworkable for the Economic Inspectorate to proactively search the internet for possible dropshipping websites. Files are started following notifications. Notices on dangerous products on the European market can also be received through the European Safety Gate. The Economic Inspectorate also cooperates with large platforms such as Amazon, AlliExpres and bol.com, which have signed the Safety Pledge. Through this initiative of the European Commission, these players committed themselves, inter alia, to taking appropriate action against unsafe products on their platforms and to cooperate with public authorities. Thanks to this cooperation, the Economic Inspectorate hopes to be able to work more proactively in the future, so that less unsafe products will be offered online. Given the difficulties in detecting and prosecuting infringements via dropshipping websites, the main focus is on raising consumer awareness. The item is also mentioned in my school tour, which I will give from next year for students aged 16 to 18 to make them aware of online purchases as young consumers and everything that comes with it. In addition, equal control of domestic and foreign online shops remains necessary in order to combat unfair competition. I will not fail to discuss this with the European Commissioner for Consumer Protection, Mr Reynders, because it also requires a more comprehensive approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u30	I think it's a bit unfortunate that we don't have a look at the numbers and size of the webshops that do dropshipping. I understand that it's hard to do research on this, but measuring is just a matter of knowing. With more information, we could address the problem more effectively. When it comes to the Internet and online activities, consumers really need to be made even more aware of the potential dangers or consequences of Internet purchases, especially when it comes to dropshipping. These are often products which do not comply with European safety standards. The safety and health of consumers are therefore at risk. I would like to thank you in advance for doing what you want to do, and look out for the class tour you have planned in this connection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u31	It is clear that consumer awareness is the key. You said that different communication methods are being used, but we also need to know whether we are achieving the necessary success with these methods and reaching all age groups. Some are probably aware of the problem but others may still not know what dropshipping means. Sometimes something also needs to be repeated several times before people understand it. Signing something with a concrete example sometimes works better in communication than a theoretical explanation. Perhaps figures could also be communicated about the number of perpetrators caught, so that the others know that there is effective inspection and controls. It is therefore very important to focus on awareness-raising and communication on the various themes. We'll keep following this up with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u32	There are now two questions on the new guarantee scheme which were originally merged with the questions on dropshipping, but which we will deal with separately, namely the questions from Mrs Dierick and Mrs Van Bossuyt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u33	Mrs Dierick, Mrs Van Bossuyt, thank you very much. Directive 2019/770 on certain aspects of contracts for the supply of digital content and services and Directive 2019/771 on certain aspects of contracts for the sale of goods should be transposed by 1 July 2021. This transposition takes place in the Civil Code and was prepared with the competent ministers Van Quickenborne, Dermagne, myself and the competent administrations. Most stakeholders were consulted. After consultation between the competent Cabinets, some points, such as the duration of the guarantee, the length of the reversal of the burden of proof and the duration of the guarantee in the case of second-hand goods, were still discussed. These discussions also looked at transposition in several Member States. The text is now being prepared for presentation and decision at the Council of Ministers and then for advice to the Council of State. Once that opinion has been received, the text will be amended as necessary and subsequently submitted to Parliament. With regard to the sale of live animals, we will introduce separate rules at the same time as transposing the directive in order not to create temporary legal uncertainties. However, the draft law allows the King to provide for specific measures for contracts for the sale of live animals, provided that an equivalent level of protection is guaranteed for the consumer. A proposal of royal decree was drafted by the sector, led by Professor Steennot. This proposal is now before the relevant cabinet for information and discussion. This will ensure a better balance between the interests of consumers and the seller. In addition, the animal's welfare and legal certainty are also taken into account. Where many animals are still being bought with just a receipt of a sum of money, the proposal for a Royal Decree provides for a sales agreement which points to the rights and obligations of buyer and seller. Among other things, the reference to conformity deficiencies and the determination of a veterinarian during the warranty period will encourage buyers to reflect. It will stumble upon the impulse of purchase and will require reflection. In 2020, we saw an increase of 10% in the number of animals purchased and it has become clear that people do not always know what they are getting into. The maintenance of an animal takes time, care and costs money.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u34	Thank you for the comprehensive answer, Madam Secretary of State. Behind the scenes, therefore, we are working on it and we will soon be able to hear from Parliament. Does this occur before or after recess at legislative work? That wasn't clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u35	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. Mr Dierick, that will normally be before the recess, because the directive must be transposed by 1 July 2021. We have agreed that we will also organise a hearing on the subject. We shall see how things continue. Madam Secretary of State, it is a good thing that the sale of live animals will not be covered by the general regime of goods. We all agree on that. You state that a design was made in collaboration with Professor Steennot. I therefore have every confidence that it will be good. After all, he is a professor at Ghent University. So it's gonna be okay anyway. We certainly look forward to the first designs. It is very important that we go as far as possible towards harmonisation with our neighbouring countries. I am thinking, for example, of the two-year guarantee period itself. We must not anticipate matters further and look at what the designs give us. We certainly look forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u36	Mrs Van Bossuyt, I just wanted to touch on the question of timing. I can only answer "as soon as possible." You have indicated that there is some pressure in terms of timing. The draft shall be submitted to Parliament as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u37	Asap, then.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u38	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Prévot's 55017456C, 55018512C and 55018516C are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u39	Mrs Dierick, the recommendations of the Consumer Ombudsman are diverse in nature and, consequently, the consequences that can be given to them. Structural recommendations from ombudsmen deserve to be heard, according to the Consumer Ombudsman. In this context, I confirm that there is an interaction between the Consumer Ombudsman and the Economic Inspectorate and that the Economic Inspectorate takes into account the problems identified by the Consumer Ombudsman in its investigations. Indeed, an Ombudsman feels right about the concerns of consumers and in that sense his recommendations deserve to be reflected. It was also recommended that extra-judicial dispute settlement should be given special attention. I fully agree with the Consumer Ombudsman on this point. The FPS Economy has already launched a campaign in 2019 to promote the alternative dispute resolution of ADR and can organise a new campaign if required. As regards the recommendation on the appointment and recognition of ombudsmen, I can only observe that the procedures for the appointment of ombudsmen are an internal matter. In addition, the FPS Economy can only recognise entities that meet the legal requirements. I agree with the recommendation that there should be an interface between the economy and justice. The ADR is there to relieve justice as much as possible and we must therefore promote it, but we must ensure that no monopoly is given to certain institutions, administrations or population groups. We must therefore rely on general rules. One must also have the option of appealing. In some cases, the ADR can also serve as a first step towards legal proceedings. The judicial procedure will then recognise what has been preceded by the ADR. The ADR must be a reconciliation in which both parties can reach a position. For a court of law, there's one person who decides. With regard to the recommendation that each entity should be sector-covering, I refer to the Belgian legislation contained in Book XVI Extrajudicial regulation of consumer disputes in the Economic Law Code, which is the result of the transposition of a 2013 European Directive on Alternative Settlement of Consumer Disputes. It is therefore first necessary to examine to what extent it would be compatible or incompatible with the Directive to impose those obligations under Belgian law. At present, it is not legally required for qualified entities to cover an entire sector. In the analysis of the opportunity to legally require this, it should be taken into account to what extent that would be feasible for the existing entities themselves and what impact the obligation would have on the intentions of other entities that have not yet obtained recognition under book XVI of the Code of Economic Law. Clarity and transparency are the most important for consumers, so that they can also find an answer to their problems. Hence my idea of creating a unique window. The evaluation of the functioning of the mediation services has not yet been carried out. However, I note that the Economic Inspection already monitors the functioning of all qualified entities by means of thorough and mini-audits in order to ensure that the legal requirements to be met by these entities are respected. Under Article 16.6 of the Code of Economic Law, the Consumer Ombudsman is already the unique point of contact for the ADR in Belgium. By means of this recommendation, the consumer ombudsman means that it is not yet fully capable of taking up this role. The creation of a unique point of contact for all consumer information and protection can contribute to this by including the consumer ombudsman as a unique point of contact for the ADR through the unique wider window. A unique window for consumer information and protection is currently being examined. The project is almost ready for consultation between the competent members of the government and will then be on the Council of Ministers. The FPS Economy hotline has a much wider scope than just reporting consumer problems. Fraud, impropriety, unfair competition, unfair market practices B2B and other economic and/or contractual disputes or even certain crimes may also be raised. Not only consumers but also businesses can submit notifications. It is necessary to examine the extent to which the unique point of contact and the hotline can be linked, on the understanding that the specificity of the hotline makes it impossible for it to be fully integrated at present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u40	I'll be very brief. It was a very comprehensive answer. I'm definitely gonna read it again. Thank you also for the clarification regarding the unique window.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u41	My last question, No. 55018748C, I would like to postpone to the next sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u42	That's the question about traveling in the summer vacation of 2021. We'll put that on the agenda before the summer break.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u43	As I have already explained, book VI Market practices and consumer protection of the Code of Economic Law prohibit misleading consumers. The law expressly states that there should be no deception of the main characteristics of the product, including the quantity, being Article 6.97, 2°, of the Code of Economic Law. If the quantity indicated on the packaging corresponds to its actual content, there can be no misleading commercial practice. The consumer must also be vigilant and consult the quantity indicated on the packaging. The Metrology Control Service of the General Directorate for Quality and Safety systematically conduct checks on the actual net quantities of conditioned products. This includes slack-fill packaging. The recurrent checks carried out do not indicate that slack-fill packs would show greater deviations than non-slack-fill packs. Consequently, I do not intend to take specific measures at the federal level. As regards packaging waste legislation, I would like to inform you that the answer to this question falls within the competence of the regional authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u44	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I can be brief. I had already asked a question on the subject. At that time you had replied that the problem had not yet been mapped out in Belgium. After all, there was a question about what had happened in the Netherlands. Now you answer that there are no remarkable problems in Belgium and that, if I understand correctly, no action will be taken at federal level, given the partial competence of the Länder as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic510x.u45	Madam Secretary of State, there was still confusion about the question No. 55018751C on the fight against illegal fish by Mrs Verhelst. That question is now being converted into a written question.
