ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u1	Madam Secretary, how small countries can be big, that was a bit the tone of some enthusiastic followers of your policy. I understand that, of course, because there was a digital message for the World Economic Forum, announcing the signing of a memorandum of understanding with your Danish colleague, in order to achieve an underwater interconnection with Denmark. This is a hybrid project, where electricity could flow in both directions and the Belgian and Danish wind farms would be connected together. The intention would be for us to gain massive access to cheap Danish wind energy. International cooperation in the field of offshore is a focus for you. That is right, given the spatial constraints. I always say that here, but that's kicking in an open door. The aim would also be to achieve a very high utilisation rate, which is important for the cost and the entire financial structure, and to move towards a fully integrated European offshore network. We can talk about this later in the North Seas Energy Cooperation questions. Interconnectivity is becoming increasingly important. There may be many questions about the feasibility study, which should clarify whether the project is technically and financially feasible. I also wonder whether there will be an impact on network charges, because investments must be made. Energy prices also influence, for example the production price in Denmark. The whole financial story is, of course, very important. I can imagine that you have not yet been able to respond to all the points, since the project is embryonal, but can you explain the memorandum of understanding and the financial picture, at least what is already known?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u2	Madam Minister, the possibility of a high-voltage cable to Denmark has already been outlined, but I would like to point out that there could be differences in the wind supply between the two countries, which could also offer opportunities. A 500 kilometer cable also presents a number of challenges, because it is not that simple. These can be technical challenges, but I can imagine that, for example, the position of the Netherlands on this issue is also a point of interest which we must take into account. That leads to a number of questions, Madam Secretary. Can you situate the agreement with your Danish colleague? Can you, as far as it is known, explain what such a project could look like? Were there any discussions with your Dutch colleague, who is now in the process of resigning? Were any other potential connections mapped? In a long time ago, the Eleanore project established an indirect link between several North Sea countries, including Norway, albeit via offshore wind farms. That was once proposed, but I do not think it has been further developed. Maybe there's a link to that, too. Is there a link to the North Seas Energy Cooperation or is this project completely unrelated?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u3	Madam Minister, you have announced that Belgium wants to connect with Denmark. It was a striking announcement, and that is why many colleagues are interested in this remarkable connection that will be possible by 2030. I agree with the questions that have already been asked about the feasibility study. Interconnectivity is an important fact, especially in the future energy production market. Are there any other important projects on the drawing board or what you are looking at during your term of office?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, Denmark is a champion of Europe in the production of electricity by wind farms. This country is also a world leader in offshore wind energy. Elia, the high-voltage system operator, supports your project to install an undersea interconnection cable between Belgium and Denmark, as I was able to read. According to Elia, this project would allow our energy intensive economy to have access to a package of renewable energies. This kind of project has already been carried out. I am thinking of the Nemo project which links Belgium and the United Kingdom. Minister, has a study been conducted on this electricity interconnection project with Denmark? If so, by which company or organization? What is more specific about this? What are the advantages of developing this type of project and using this technique? At what stage are you in contact with Denmark for its implementation? What are the costs of such interconnections? Who will finance this investment? At this stage, Elia apparently does not wish to comment on the technical and financial reliability of this project, since analyses are still to be carried out. More specifically, what are the analyses to be performed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u5	Madam Minister, I had also heard the announcement and was somewhat surprised. I had already asked you in October whether it would not be interesting for Belgium to connect with other offshore wind farms, such as the Netherlands, Scotland or Denmark. So the announcement came as a surprise, because that did not appear from the answer I received in October. I therefore have a number of questions that have already been asked by my fellow Members. Why was Denmark chosen to establish an interconnection rather than the United Kingdom or the Netherlands? How are contacts with Denmark going at the moment? A number of questions were also asked about the feasibility study, which I agree with. Who's gonna do that study? How much will it cost? Finally, there is already a cable between the Netherlands and Denmark, the COBRA cable. It was put into service in 2019. Denmark can thus export electricity to the Netherlands when too much wind energy is produced in Denmark. Is the piste being examined whether Belgium can connect to that COBRA cable? If no, why not? What are the possible positive or negative consequences of this? Will you discuss this with the Netherlands and Denmark? Madam Minister, I am curious to see the next steps that will be taken in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u6	Mr Ben Accour and Mrs Marghem are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u7	Mr President, the subject has already been sufficiently addressed. We certainly welcome this initiative, because the development of an offshore grid in the North Sea is essential for the energy transition and the further development of offshore wind farms. Madam Minister, first of all, what can you tell us about this feasibility study? At what time will Elijah draw up these? What are the next steps after this feasibility study? By whom and when can we decide on the realisation of the project? What period could be allowed for the realisation of this connector? Secondly, how does this feasibility study relate to the North Seas Energy Cooperation? Is there a larger plan within the NSEC for the development of an offshore grid in the North Sea, within which this project falls? Or is it a purely Belgian-Danish initiative? Thirdly, what steps are you taking within the NSEC for the quickest possible realisation of wind farms in the international part of the North Sea and an offshore grid? Fourthly, how will you improve and accelerate international cooperation for the development of offshore wind energy in the international part of the North Sea? Finally, what objectives for offshore wind energy are you pursuing within the NSEC? As you understand, this is a good initiative for us and must be the beginning of much more.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u8	Mr President, Madam Minister, you have recently made statements about the possibility of a connection with Denmark and a submarine cable between Denmark and our country. Minister, I would like to have more details on the proposed capacity, the exchanges you have had on this matter or the preparations for these exchanges, and where this cable would arrive in our territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u9	May I add a question? It's about a topical debate. It goes both ways, of course. At many times the wind farms will run at the same time at full or less full power. Will it then look at the technical and financial possibilities for converting the excess wind energy into hydrogen at certain times? The European Green Deal is also used for such joint projects. That was my brief supplementary question. Madam Minister, if there are no other speakers, either in the Chamber or in the Chamber or in the Chamber, I will give you the answer for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank everyone for the interest and the questions of almost all the groups on this subject. Not so long ago, my policy statement was presented in which we made it clear that we are going to examine offshore wind energy to see if we can achieve additional capacity in the Belgian North Sea, but also outside our territorial waters and in cooperation with other countries located on the North Sea. Mrs Dierick, you questioned me about Denmark in October. At the end of 2020, the Belgian network operator Elia and the Danish network operator Energginet had exploratory talks on the construction of a hybrid connector. So these were conversations between our two countries about a submarine power line that should be connected to a wind farm. This wind farm would be built on the west coast of Denmark. My Danish colleague, Dan Jørgensen, contacted me in the margins of the Energy Council of December 2020 to see how our two countries can politically steer these talks between both grid operators. What if we could... Mrs Dierick, this has been accelerated in the short term by the fact that we have innovative TSOs in both countries and we have a proactive and voluntaristic policy in the field of wind. My Danish colleagues and I have found each other very quickly to support this initiative. Perhaps this is also the time to thank my services as well as the TSO. It may seem odd to also thank the Danish services, but we have worked with them for more than a month in a very intense way. Denmark has already signed declarations with the Netherlands and Germany concerning similar cooperation. Then I come to the specific questions about the project. The project includes, on the Danish side, the construction of a wind farm of 3 gigawatt by 2030, which can be extended to 10 gigawatts in the longer term. The Danish Parliament still has to decide whether to build an artificial energy island in the sea or a sand island with steel platforms and a large concrete container, filled with stone material. That is a lively debate in the Danish Parliament. It's about choosing the most appropriate option. My colleague said to me last week: we are doing this anyway. It is up to the Danish Parliament to decide what is the most appropriate option. Normally, this decision falls this week. There are several engines to enter this project. In addition to the objectives I have already mentioned in my policy statement, we aim to increase social prosperity by improving price convergence between the regions. We are also looking at the potential benefits for security of supply and are continuing to integrate renewable energy production into connected systems. There are, of course, quite a number of challenges for such a large project that we need to resolve. These will be sought in the course of the project. There are technical challenges for the realisation of such a large project. There are challenges for integrating large-scale renewable energy into existing energy markets. There are cost considerations, including the establishment of an agreement on the project structure, governance and cost sharing. There is the regulatory set-up and the treatment. There is a quantitative assessment of the potential benefits of such a project. There is the further detailed scoping of the technical solution, such as the type of offshore infrastructure, technology and capacity of the connections. A realistic project timeline should be set up. The target is 3 gigawatts by 2030 and further expansion thereafter. There is the potential contribution to the renewable energy objectives of the associated countries. Denmark has a surplus, while Belgium has a deficit. There are also legal and administrative issues relating to a geographical route through the seabed linked to third countries. Several of you have asked me questions about our neighbouring countries. We have contacted the Netherlands and France for cooperation and interconnection with them. But it turns out that such cooperation is not possible in the short term because, in the years to come, offshore production will mainly be used for their own domestic consumption. However, after 2030, opportunities for cooperation will exist. In addition, a connection to the Cobra cable is not possible due to the lack of excess capacity. Mr Wollants, I have indeed spoken with my colleague, Mr Wiebes. I also spoke with my English colleague. Those subjects have been addressed there. I would also like to stress that we are developing a hybrid interconnection with the United Kingdom. This is the Nautilus project, which I believe was the subject of this discussion. This is a question of interconnection with a wind farm located on the coast of the United Kingdom. In the light of the Brexit agreement, it is still necessary to check which agreements will have to be concluded between the two countries. I have spoken with my English colleague, Mr Kwarteng. In the meantime, he's been replaced because he's changed jobs. The Brexit conversations made it difficult at some point to see what the exact impact of the Brexit would be on that project. In the meantime, a Brexit agreement has been reached on which Mr Wollants will have questions later in this session. It is therefore now necessary to consider how the United Kingdom will deal with the applicable provisions of the Electricity Regulation. We are asking that they should be implemented in a similar way in order to give that project a chance of success. I will formally sign the agreement at the beginning of next week. We have therefore reached an agreement. My Danish colleague is currently also responsible for industry because his colleague is ill for industry. That's why the agendas are very crowded. The two system operators are also developing a joint high-level analysis. This is the feasibility study which clarifies the technical and economic aspects of a possible interconnector. These include technology, capacity, connection points, land connections, internal grid reinforcements, ownership, financing, socio-economic implications, as well as a first environmental impact assessment. By the end of 2021, both network operators will make a final recommendation to be able to proceed with the project or not. The Belgian and Danish authorities will follow up on the next stages of the investigation. Funding will need to be discussed at a later stage. The costs of the preliminary study are borne by the system operators. The exact location of the wind farms, the route of the submarine cable and the landing point in Belgium will also be studied later. As far as the project of common European interest is concerned, if we go further along the route, we will consider whether we can submit it as a Project of Common Interest, so that it can be eligible for support with European funds, including the Connecting Europe Facility, which supports studies financially. If the project is more mature, it will of course also be discussed in the North Seas Energy Cooperation, because it is part of the development of the North Sea Basin, as proposed in the European Commission's offshore strategy. It will of course be part of the intended 300 gigawatts by 2050. I would also like to make the link with the President's question on hydrogen. In the European Commission's offshore communication as well as in hydrogen communication, the aim is explicitly to make both technologies supplementary. This is a subject that regularly comes back to the Energy Council of the European Union and in our various presidencies, such as the North Seas Energy Coorperation, but also at Benelux level and in the pentalateral forum. All our neighbouring countries are moving forward at the same time, both with offshore and with hydrogen. I believe that we are going to have a debate on hydrogen here in committee, too, and the intention is to look closely at how we can connect both technologies. Our country was a pioneer in offshore wind energy and we must also play that pioneering role for hydrogen. We have suitable strategic locations, for example our ports, where that hydrogen can be carried. All projects, including Nautilus, Kriegers Vlak, COBRA and WindConnector, are discussed with the countries of the NSEC, in order to learn from each other and to develop the projects faster and easier. The route will also be able to show its added value here after the final investment decision. We are talking about a project with a timing that runs until 2030, so we actually have 10 years to build the future. Like the regions, we are in the process of drawing up a relance plan for the period after corona and projects like this are preparing for that future. We have ten years, but for such a big and challenging project we have to start today. We now need to take the first steps in this direction, so that we can create provision for our country, not only for our customers, but also for those who want to participate in development. They need to know the direction we are heading. I am absolutely available to reconnect regularly with regard to the various steps in this project. You understand that I will take it very strongly myself. Important steps will be taken this year. I would be happy to see how we can follow up on this further. However, I certainly invite Parliament to organise an exchange of views with Elijah and others on the 2030 Vision and interconnections between the different countries. As several people have said, the Danish project is not the only project, there are other ways of connecting the countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u11	Mr President, Minister, you outlined the situation. I look forward with interest to the final recommendations of the network operators, that feasibility study. With your promise to reconnect regularly with this committee about, among other things, the feasibility study, you will get me the cheese off the bread. I understand that the financial feasibility will be dealt with later. I would also like to ask about the link with Europe and European funding opportunities, including the study phase. Mr President, we look forward with interest to the further implementation and roll-out of this important project. Interconnectivity is one of the red threads in your policy. I have already said that here. With this project we will come to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u12	Mr President, Minister, this is an early stage project and we need to see which way it is going. There are certainly opportunities, but everything must fall into the right fold. Without investigating that, however, we are never going to know. You say that we have ten years to achieve that. Ten years is short and ten years is over faster than we like. I would like to refer to a previous project. In 2013, ALEGrO was launched as an idea by then State Secretary Wathelet. You plugged in on a stage a few months ago. Its length is 90 kilometres. With the challenges of such a long link, we must look at what direction it is heading. If the connection is similar to other such connections, then there are possibilities. I have always been told that the cable between Norway and Denmark has earned itself back in a few years. It is a bit shorter, but that does not mean that the new connection does not offer any new opportunities. We look forward to the next feedback on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u13	Thank you for your detailed reply, Madam Secretary. For me it is enough for the time being, but it is a topic that remains interesting to follow. Ten years is indeed very short, as Mr Wollants said, but we have of course already learned a lot from previous projects. The sector hasn't been idle either. It is good that we are working on it today, because interconnectivity is indeed one of the things that will soon be essential for the production market to work the way we want it to.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u14	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is clear that the installation of a high-voltage submarine cable to improve the connection between Denmark's electricity production and Belgium is an ambitious project which deserves further analysis. The advantage is that it would make it possible to circulate the surplus of green energy between these two countries as needed. At the same time, we hope that this will result in a fall in the average price for consumers. I will conclude by thanking you for your willingness to provide us with a regular follow-up on the progress of this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u15	Thank you for your comprehensive answer, Madam Secretary. For the time being, indeed, what you have said is sufficient. Interconnectivity is an important theme. I would very much like to comment on your suggestion that we should regularly link back to this committee and perhaps have a more detailed debate on the interconnections that are already there, the impact and options for the future. At least we'll follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u16	Mr. Ben Achour, you're here with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u17	Mr President, I apologize for not having been able to ask my question, but I have had difficulties connecting the Internet. So I had to restart it. Nevertheless, I have largely heard the minister's answer. At this point, I thank her for being so precise. This is indeed a long-term project, on which we will have to return regularly since we are dealing here with a major issue – shared by all – formed by security of supply, price and interconnection. Thank you already for the exciting information. I therefore hope that we will be able to give substance to this project, even if the deadlines are quite distant.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u18	Minister, I thank you for your extensive and thorough responses, which covered all the possibilities in the context of the beginning of your department. As Mr Wollants pointed out, the succession of energy ministers for some time has shown the national will to achieve a very secure interconnection and to allow our citizens to receive the cheapest electricity produced in Europe. This initiative is part of the continuity of the opportunities offered by the MOG, undertaken under the previous legislature, so that we can connect to other wind farms. Of course, Denmark is very well placed in the field of renewable energy, which it even has in surplus – unlike other countries that will use it for their own consumption. In this case, Denmark is a country in a position to resell renewable energy outside of Denmark because it owns more than enough renewable energy for its own use. I come to a few additional questions, since this is a debate. First of all, studies are being prepared, of course, since the situation is extremely complex – both technically and politically. Madam Minister, when you talk about Elias, is this Elias Transmission Belgium? I would therefore like to know who bears responsibility for this matter at Elia – since this body has changed, as you know. Secondly, are the costs of these studies integrated into the regulated cost, which will eventually be passed on to the consumer? Can we consider financing through the Recovery Plan or through the European Investment Bank? In any case, I'm going to take a close look at these studies. Mr President, I would like us to hold an exchange of views with Elia on this subject in the wake of the Minister's proposal to return to us at regular intervals. It is important to see how Elia already imagines this interconnection. It is obvious that a submarine cable is preferable to interconnection via Germany and the Netherlands. This will provide us with direct energy, without loop flows. But knowing exactly where this will happen in Belgium is also very important for future developments. I would like our committee to be able to organise this exchange of views with Elia so that we can get a little deeper.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u19	We will consider your suggestion in the context of the rules of procedure at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u20	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers. It's a feasibility study. So you can't be very concrete yet. We are pleased that you have made frequent contacts with neighbouring countries and that you see the dossier effectively as an international cooperation. We have always looked at it in this way, namely that the transition must be ecological, but must also take place internationally and not just in our little Belgium. I have remained somewhat hungry, but perhaps it is because things are still working out. To highlight the international aspect, you have talked about 300 gigawatts by 2050. I would have liked to have heard a little more about the wind farms in international waters, in particular about the extent to which they are doing so. However, you have indicated that we must start today. I therefore hope that you will do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u21	We have come to the end of the replies in the context of the current debate. Someone also wondered as a suggestion why we would not agree with the Danish colleagues in the Danish Parliament to set up a joint committee. We do not have to go to Denmark, which is not possible at present. Online, however, much is possible. It might be interesting, too. However, this suggestion must also be looked at in the context of the arrangements for the work. For the time being, the topical and urgent debate is exhausted. We shall now proceed to a topical debate on the dormant energy contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u22	Mr President, you are closing after the reply, but it is an exchange of views. I have asked additional questions and I would like answers to these additional questions. If you think we're done, abruptly, now, I will ask the minister to respond to the last written questions I asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u23	On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, it is a topical debate. It is not an exchange of views as such. If the Minister has to reply in a second round, Parliament will have the floor again. So it is not what the Rules of Procedure say. Mrs Marghem, I understand you think it's a rather abrupt end. I was also somewhat surprised that there were so many questions in the reply. Perhaps your suggestion is the best one, so I would ask the Minister to reply in writing to the supplementary questions you have asked. I shall not depart from the Rules of Procedure. Immers, once is not customary. We will then end up in topical debates with a second and a third round. Parliament always has the last word. That's why the replies are actually a...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u24	Mr. Chair, I will then rest my questions later, if I do not receive written answers from the minister. There will be a somewhat unpleasant repetition effect, but it will be so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u25	Yeah, but I made the suggestion. I saw the minister behind her mask, who agreed to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u26	I didn't see him. I didn't wear my glasses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u27	I can see.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u28	Mr President, I had limited myself to a reply, as it is not customary for a reply to include a new set of questions. I can see that other members are doing that now. Is that how we will deal with topical debates? Then I can do the same in the next debate, in order to get a number of written answers from the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u29	That's not the way. That is why I have indicated that I am based on the Rules of Procedure, no more and no less. I'll make that clear to the committee. In the future, it is not the intention to provoke a new debate through the replies. However, I believe in Mrs Marghem's innocence in that regard. If the Minister wishes to answer the questions in writing, he can, but that certainly should not be the rule. The questions are put in the context of the debate. The Minister responds and then replies to the Minister's reply. However, a reply is not a new debate. In this way, with my limited experience, I have always interpreted the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u30	Mr. President, I'm not innocent. I haven't been in my life. Probably in the early years of this one. I always tell the truth. But earlier, in this same committee, and Mr Wollants is a witness to this, even in "universal" exchanges of a simple question put by a parliamentarian to the minister, we often had, because the president saw it like this, outside the rules – as you pointed out – a rather long ping pong exchange. I have always accepted him as a minister. Your case law is different. So I will rest the question or have written answers from the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u31	I said what I said. I didn't say any more. My predecessor's case law belongs to him. I propose that the committee respect the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, we will never conclude a topical debate in a satisfactory manner. If the minister wants to answer, she'll answer. She'll do it this time. For the rest, I can only give advice: ask your questions as part of your question and answer the minister's answer. That is how Parliament gets the last word. Otherwise, there is a second round, a third round. If that is Mr. Van Quickenborne, I'm sorry, but it's not mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u32	It wasn't Mr. Van Quickenborne. It was Mr. Delizée's, your antepenultimate predecessor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u33	Mr President, I fully agree with your view, but I would like us to have an arrangement so that we can organise this contact with Elijah in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u34	This must then be done during the work. We keep regular arrangements for the work. I shall come back to it at the end of the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u35	Madam Minister, after a first meeting on 14 December 2020 between a number of energy suppliers and yourself, your colleague from Economy and Secretary of State De Bleeker, it was stated that a plan of action would be put in place in the short term for the dormant contracts. On 15 January, as announced, you were back together with various energy suppliers. I suppose they were the same as on December 14th. It showed that there was no problem with Lampiris customers. Eneco and EDF Luminus even proposed an action plan to put an end to their dormant contracts. This would be further worked with the government. In the meantime, Eneco would have woken up 30,000 customers proverbibly and actively wrote. In the media there was still some communication with supplier Mega. Mega has no action plan and no commitment, so you communicated. Mega refuted that. That is why you and your colleague Dermagne asked the Economic Inspectorate to investigate misleading practices. Apparently, the Mega file is clear to the government. Can you explain this second conversation? Does this mean that Mr Verduyckt's legislation under discussion in order to enforce a statutory ban on certain dormant contracts is no longer necessary? Is this evaluation already being carried out? Was a review, updating or evaluation of the consumer agreement also discussed during these discussions? Meanwhile, we need the third version, which was last revised in June 2017. You always said yourself that the market responds inventively to changing competitive conditions and new rules. Of course it is not you who should take the initiative, but I suppose you are interested in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u36	Madam Minister, I am delighted to have a topical debate on this subject, even if I want to get the mechanism out of the market as soon as possible. I'm glad there's a lot of questions from colleagues. I am somewhat surprised by Mr Marghem's question, because she is asking if you will take a legal initiative. I wonder if she has been paying attention, or does it say something about how she has worked with Parliament in the past. Madam Minister, we owe this particular attention to the fact that you have not been sitting on your hands, that you have already negotiated heavily with the sector. A number of companies indicated that they wanted to take initiative, and one company today says that it does not intend to do so. I have specific questions for you about this consultation. First of all, what does the deal mean? In the legislative proposal that has already been discussed here, we refer, among other things, to the cheapest equivalent product. Is that also the intention of the companies involved or who announce that they might want to take an initiative? Is it just about contracts with families or also about SMEs in the conversations? I would like to know more about the story about the Economic Inspectorate. What's the setup and the time frame there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u37	Mr President, I would like to reassure Mr Verduyckt that we have also worked on dormant contracts, but this is due in particular to the ongoing work carried out by the CREG. I assume you respect the independence and quality of the services provided to the nation. On 15 December, the CREG published a study on the composition of product portfolios by supplier and the potential savings for individuals in the Belgian electricity and natural gas market. The CREG found that in May 2020 around 470,000 Belgian consumers had a dormant extension contract. By addressing these contracts, a large proportion of consumers could make significant savings. In Wallonia 68 000 of this type of contracts have been signed for electricity and 20,000 for gas. The potential savings are 320 euros and 824 euros per year respectively. I read in the newspaper that you want to compete with these contracts and practices, and I can only welcome that. Most suppliers have indicated that they want to stop these practices and will therefore act more transparently. Unfortunately, there are still suppliers who will persist in anger and do nothing to stop these practices. The good intentions, promises and action plans of various energy suppliers to address the problem of dormant contracts are a good thing. Madam Secretary, I have a few questions. Firstly, what is the concrete content of these action plans and how are you going to check that the suppliers concerned also deliver on these promises? Secondly, how are you going to commit those energy suppliers who do not want to cooperate to stop these practices? Thirdly, you are in favour of a negotiated solution, but will you table a draft law banning these practices in the long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u38	Madam Minister, I could ask my question in French for balance, but I will still put it in Dutch. Madam Minister, at the end of 2020, you announced, together with your colleagues Dermagne and De Bleeker, that you would fight against the so-called dormant contracts or dormant renewal products, as you mentioned them. The CREG defines these products as long-standing and, I quote, 'the contracts of which are always renewed with existing customers'. They would not be included in the results of the price comparison, with the exception of the CREG scan. They would also be among the most expensive in the market. There are only a few suppliers they still use, but it would still be 470,000 of these older contracts. At the beginning of 2021 you received four suppliers. They still offer the products. You asked them to come up with a plan. Two suppliers have shown an effective willingness to deal with the products. One supplier would not have submitted a plan. You and your colleagues then decided to send the Economic Inspectorate to that supplier. I have a few questions about that. After the consultation, can you provide more insight into how many consumers have signed contracts for such products? What is the concrete plan of the two energy suppliers to tackle these products? How will you monitor this? When will there be an evaluation of the intended results? Based on what information did you decide together to send the Economic Inspectorate? When do you expect a result? Why didn't the fourth supplier have any follow-up so far?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u39	Madam Secretary, I will be brief with my introduction. It is indeed about the energy suppliers who implicitly renew the contract for the consumer. As a result, that consumer pays too much for his energy. According to the CREG, 1 million families pay more than 500 euros too much for their energy. Madam Secretary, when you took office, you immediately made a promise to deal with these practices. You have done so by speaking to the companies concerned. You gave them until January 15, 2021 to come up with a plan. Indeed, we have read that a number of companies have addressed this issue. The question is what this means in concrete terms. But Mega, some say the Ryanair of the electricity market, refused to go along with this. You said you were disappointed. I was less surprised. From the outset, we have stated that the government must act in a binding manner. That is why we are also in favour of Mr Verduyckt's proposal to ban sleeping contracts by law. Madam Minister, in view of the answers you have received, are you also in favour of a legal ban, which can also ensure that suppliers who have promised to sign up to their customers and stop the dormant contracts will no longer allow dormant contracts to exist in the future? The law will then be the same for everyone, without distortion of competition. In the press, I read as an argument that you want a solution quickly and that making a law always takes longer. The situation in which we are now, of course, is different. After all, we could adopt Mr Verduyckt's law in a few weeks' time. We are still waiting for the opinion of the Council of State. The longer-term argument is therefore not really valid anymore. Will you support Mr Verduyckt's initiative or will you take a legislative initiative yourself? Finally, you and your colleague from Economy have decided to send the Economic Inspectorate to Mega. What do you expect from this initiative? Will this ensure that there will be no more dormant contracts on the energy market? How is that gonna do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u40	Is anyone else asking to speak in the context of the debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u41	Mr President, there are always points that change here in committee. I know that Mrs Marghem has invested a great deal in the quality of her Dutch in the past, which is now also paying off, as she is now even putting questions in Dutch. I'm happy with that evolution and I'm counting on her to keep going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u42	Mr Wollants, that's because I have a Dutch-speaking employee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u43	Mrs Marghem, that is very good, but that is not the content of my question. Madam Minister, dormant energy contracts are, if I have counted correctly, one of the seven points on which you have amended your policy paper. Can you explain at what point this is an adjustment and why you have made that adjustment? It is also specifically about this. What is your position on Mr Verduyckt's amendments?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u44	Are there any other speakers in the topical and urgent debate? [[No.]] Madam Secretary, we are happy to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the context, as you have done. The CREG has indeed detected several types of dormant contracts on the market. Since 2017, it has been addressing a number of problems, namely that there are two types of contracts that have a high potential for saving without surrendering to other contract terms. It's about two types of contracts. A first group are dormant contracts which are no longer actively offered on the market and which extend the price of the contract by a price higher than that of the active equivalents. A second group of contracts are dormant contracts that have an active brother or sister at the same time with an extension fee. After the end of the first contract period, the customer is thus transferred to a higher rate, namely the passive brother or sister of the active contract. The CREG has drawn our attention to this. It is doing so annually, and that was the reason to invite, before Christmas, the four suppliers mentioned in the CREG's report for a discussion with Eva De Bleeker, responsible for Consumer Protection, Pierre-Yves Dermagne, responsible for Economics, and myself, responsible for Energy. So we are dealing with the dossier with the three of us, each from our own perspective, and that gives us the power to make progress in the dossier. It was then agreed that a second consultation would take place and that prior to that second consultation, the CREG would have an individual consultation with each of the suppliers in order to provide more insight into the CREG study, the methodology used and what was precisely charged to each of the four suppliers. At the beginning of January, we, the three competent government members, saw the suppliers concerned individually. The first time we received them all together, the second time individually, which makes sense, because they came to explain their action plan and it is logical that competitors do not have access to each other's plans. In the meantime, the names of the four suppliers are well known. Lampiris doesn't seem to have any problems. I just want to say that I'm intrigued by that. I have received a study called Lampiris, the company has been invited to us, but after further consultation between the supplier and the CREG it has been found that it would be based on a mistake and that there is therefore no problem with sleeping renewal products at Lampiris. Eneco and Luminus have both proposed an action plan, proposing a phased extinction. The customer is actively informed about the offer and then automatically transferred to the cheapest equivalent product. They actually follow the rules of the consumer agreement applied to the phasing out of their dormant products. Supplier Mega didn't have a concrete action plan and we didn't get a clear answer to our questions either. The CREG has also informed us that cooperation between them and Mega is rather difficult. They didn't always get a clear answer to their questions. Mr Dermagne, Mrs De Bleeker and myself jointly asked the Economic Inspectorate to carry out an investigation. We ask ourselves more specific questions about the fact that, after the initial duration of the contract, they renew the consumer at a different rate whose energy component is on average 30% higher, but with the same product name. So those are the passive and active sisters of the same contract, as I just said. In our view, it would be impossible for consumers to compare their prices with market prices. Mega has a different opinion than we do. That is why we have asked the Economic Inspectorate whether there are unfair commercial practices here. We submitted this to the Economic Inspectorate last week. We don't have a visual on their timing. It is important to further objectify. There is a possibility of this through the Economic Inspectorate. It is the appropriate body to consider whether or not there is a problem here. We await her conclusion. We must always be careful and base our own policies on sound analysis. The result of our conversation is here. Eneco has indicated, also in the newspapers, that they have already switched 30,000 customers. Luminus has started the roll-out of his plan and the first customers have been signed up. It was quicker to move forward in this way. This was the fastest way for consumers. Of course, the next step is also important. We will therefore ask the CREG to regularly update the number of sleeping products during the coming trimester, and at the end of the year. The suppliers are already obliged to deliver that data to the CREG today. In this way, cooperation with the regulator is the best guarantee for the follow-up. The regulator also has all the tools in his hands. As for Mega, we're looking forward to the analysis of the Economic Inspectorate. I now come to the following steps: the legislative framework and the consumer agreement. Mr Verduyckt's bill, which is before us in this Committee on Energy, is certainly on the radar. It guides a number of improvements in the market. The proposal, which I also have a number of comments, consists of two Members. A first paragraph concerns the dissolution of dormant energy contracts between household customers and SMEs at a higher rate than the reference energy component. In addition to the comments made by the CREG, I would like to point out that in the end we are still living in a liberalised market, whether we like it or not, and therefore we must not miss the fact that there is a choice between different products, for which different rates apply. A second paragraph prohibits the tacit renewal of dormant contracts where a product is no longer actively offered on the market. That certainly leads us in the right direction, but it is only one type of contract that we are dealing with today. The extension contracts, as applied today by Mega, are not excluded. The examination of the Economic Inspectorate can undoubtedly provide inspiration or direction in response to the question of whether it is a problem of consumer protection and how we can deal with it. With regard to the consumer agreement, the work on the extension of the consumer agreement has, of course, also been included at the level of the federal ministers and the CREG. The CREG certainly has an important role to play in this. A first consultation took place last week at the initiative of the CREG. My colleagues and I will continue to discuss adjustments to the consumer agreement in the coming weeks. In any case, I am concerned with the fact that, until today, only a limited number of suppliers have signed the consumer agreement, less than half. I think we should ask ourselves what this means for the level playing field among suppliers. The consumer agreement is good and strong and can serve as an example for other sectors in which consumer protection agreements are made between the sector and the public authorities. However, if more than half of the suppliers do not wish to endorse the agreement, we must also discuss how we can deal with it if we are thinking about adjusting the consumer agreement. Mr Wollants asked a question on the amendment of the Policy Paper 2.0. I did indeed explicitly include this in the presentation of my policy paper in this Chamber's Committee and before I received that study from the CREG and before I met the suppliers together with my colleagues. I thought it would be useful to clarify that passage on that point, because it remains a priority during this year anyway, given the follow-up to the suppliers' action plans. This problem has been raised by the CREG for four years. We have now taken the first steps and, together with the regulator, we must ensure adequate transparency and consumer protection. Let us wait and see what further steps we can take. I await the opinion of the Council of State, the conclusion of the Economic Inspectorate and the further refinements of the CREG to see what are now the most appropriate legislative steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u46	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. In fact, you are holding different battles on the issue of legislative work. You'll be careful. You have made a number of comments on the bill and you are talking about the examination of the Economic Inspectorate and, of course, the opinion of the Council of State. In principle, we can still support this proposal, but in the meantime you are not sitting still and there is a quicker way for the consumer. Apparently, your road has opened a number of doors and has accelerated a number of intentions at Eneco and EDF Luminus. We will continue to follow up this dossier and will continue to question you and your colleagues about the consumer agreement in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u47	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. For me, the most important thing is, of course, the result. The result must be that we will no longer be able to talk about those dormant renewal products over a certain period of time; everyone must know what we are talking about. This applies both to citizens and SMEs. We think that's important. The first results are there and we remain in favour of a legal ban. You are talking about the consumer agreement that is not signed by everyone. I think that a consumer agreement is good for certain rules of the game, but this mechanism does not even belong here. We must say that this is not the proper functioning of the market and that we do not want it in our country. I would regret that, after all your efforts, we would find sleeping renewal products again in the CREG figures. I'll wait with you for the results of the Economic Inspectorate around the Mega file. In the information you provide about my bill, I still hear you talking about the legal dissolution and the energy coefficient. I will give you and your cabinet our amendments to this bill, because that is no longer the case. We have amended our legislative proposal on the basis of the CREG's opinions; it would be good if your cabinet looked at our amendments. When you took office as Minister, you said in this committee that you consider cooperation with Parliament to be particularly important. I am counting on us to get the dormant energy contracts out of the market together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u48	Now in French, of course. Je ne suis pas encore à ce stade, Monsieur Wollants! I thank the minister for her response and for her commitment to the fight against the inflation of the electricity bill, which must be carried out on a day-to-day basis and always put back on the job. I'm waiting to see how this case evolves. I will re-examine the minister in a moment's time to see what concrete developments have been achieved, first with the suppliers who are complacent, that is, with the agreement to issue plans and change things. Then we'll see what happens to those who aren't. When one of the suppliers says that it is not mandatory, it may be necessary at that time to move on to a piece of legislation. We will see according to the evolution of things. Above all, keep going! I have no doubt that your work with CREG in this area is the best ally you can have in this complicated case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u49	Madam Secretary, I would like to say that the government has acted quickly. You have effectively asked the questions in a very short period of time. It is now awaiting further implementation. I therefore call for you to follow up closely with your two colleagues, which I do not doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u50	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Mrs van der Straeten, I am nevertheless somewhat disappointed, although, as I indicated in my introduction, I am, of course, satisfied with your promise and that you have taken over the dossier. However, you said that you would ask the CREG for a regular update, namely by trimester and by year. You also said that the issue was denounced four years ago. We therefore need to get rid of this in the short term. You spoke about the existing liberalised market, and you said that there are supporters and opponents. I am sure you know that we are more of the opponents. However, even a liberalised market can take all kinds of forms. We are clearly in favour of a regulated market. As long as there is a market, we want to regulate them as much as possible. You say that Mr Verduyckt's bill is on the radar. You had a number of comments on it. A number of amendments have indeed already been tabled by Mr Verduyckt following the opinion of the CREG. Mr Wollants has already tabled sub-amendments. Of course, it is up to your party or your political group and any political group to table some additional amendments if necessary. However, we certainly want to move forward with the legislative proposal and not put it off, by asking for all kinds of opinions. I shall now return to the liberalised market. You yourself stated that less than 50% of suppliers have signed the consumer agreement, which effectively demonstrates that self-regulation does not work. As you yourself point out, this also disrupts the level playing field. That is why we must not leave such things to the market, suppliers or operators themselves, which cannot, as Mr Verduyckt has also pointed out, just as we cannot do for alcohol consumption or cigarettes, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u51	Madam Minister, I have a brief question, but you promised at the last committee meeting that you had a very good answer. I'm very curious about that. On 3 December, the European Commission decided to formally inform Belgium that the transposition of Directive 2011/92 had not happened correctly. This directive deals with the environmental impact assessment. At federal level, there could be an impact on ionising radiation. In your area of competence, the environmental impact analysis is pending for the restoration of the extension of the plants Objectives 1 and 2. What is the impact of the procedure initiated by the committee on the work on that file? I look forward to your very good answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u52	Mr President, a formal notice has been sent to Belgium concerning the incorrect transposition of Directive 2011/92 into Belgian law on 3 December. My question is: How is this going or could it impact your wind development projects in the North Sea? (Fire alarm triggered)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u53	There... [[Hilarity]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u54	This has nothing to do with you. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u55	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u56	Mr President, there is no cause and effect link. I was talking. And now the alarm has gone off! But you know, I have waves!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u57	That said, you had not completed your intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u58	I don't even know where we were anymore. That's to tell you!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u59	We were talking about the directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u60	Madam Minister, I hope that this time I will not set off the alarm! How will incorrect transposition of Directive 2011/92 affect your wind development projects in the North Sea, as well as your projects for new piloting and nuclear capabilities? How do you intend to remedy this? Have you informed the various operators whose files might suffer from this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I have also read the letter from the European Commission. The Belgian State was informed that, from its point of view, the 2011/92/EU Directive had not been correctly transposed into Belgian law. At federal level, the Commission's complaints relate to the Law of 20 January 1999 on the protection of the marine environment and to the organisation of the development of maritime areas under Belgian jurisdiction and the related legislation. That is the responsibility of the Minister of Climate, Environment, Sustainable Development and Green Deal. In addition, there were complaints about the law of 15 April 1994 on the FANC. That is the responsibility of the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal. Wind development projects in the North Sea, as well as those selected under the new piloting capabilities, are subject to an environmental impact assessment under the Act of 20 January 1999 for evaluation by the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment. Pending the latter's instructions on possible changes to the current procedure, the projects currently under way are being continued. Of course, your questions are not at all without object because of the link with the files of Objective 1 and Objective 2. I refer to what I also said in October: the near-completed environmental impact study and the forthcoming cross-border public consultation are the direct result of the judgment of 5 March 2020, which requires Parliament to take into account the conclusions of such a study in order to allow the postponement of their deactivation. In the absence of a federal transposition of the environmental impact assessment and the Habitats Directives applicable to this case, we have chosen to implement directly the decision of the Constitutional Court. We have therefore opted for a direct application of the directives in question to the formal process of adopting this law before 31 December 2022, which is the time limit that the Court gives us to regularise this. Here there is no impact of the procedure recently initiated in committee to prepare the new recovery law for extending reactor operation Objective 1 and Objective 2. We're just gonna keep going. There's no impact here. There will probably be an impact somewhere else, and the letter from the European Commission must also be followed up, but that competence lies with the two colleagues. As far as the recovery law is concerned, we shall continue with the work. I think there will be another question on this later in the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u62	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Due to the direct application of the Directive, resulting from the judgment of the Constitutional Court, there is no link to the Belgian transposition. That's how I understand it. In this case, at least that is good news, because that means that there is no reason to delay the process. We hope that we will soon be able to admire the result in our committee, after the necessary consultations and procedural steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u63	Madam Minister, I am a little surprised, because you know – or do not know yet – that we, together with DG Energy, have chosen a system that was precisely avoiding the problem of this incorrect transposition. That's how I answer Mr. Wollants. I'm talking about Doel 1 and Doel 2. When we considered how to launch the impact study and the whole process of regularisation following the Constitutional Court's ruling in the Doel 1 and Doel 2 extension case, we had already anticipated this problem and chosen an autonomous system or in any case a base of autonomous reflections. I'm talking about the other projects! Your energy projects. You do not seem to worry about this, saying that there is no problem with wind, with future gas plants, with nuclear projects, etc. I'm still afraid there are problems! We will obviously have to answer, and you have said so, to the European Commission, but in addition we will have to transpose correctly, before the problems arise. Indeed, for all these projects, whose quality and nature I have just mentioned, and which are within your competence, this transposition will have to be correct before the projects are affected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u64	Debates of the European Parliament 55011510C by Mrs Depraetere is on the table, but I do not see her. Mr Warmoes, you had a question about the extension of the social energy tariff, but I cannot link your question to a question the questioner is not there. If Mrs. Depraetere is here, your question will be linked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u65	Madam Minister, earlier I asked the question about the procedure for the appointment of a chairman to the Executive Committee of the CREG and you replied to me that your file was not complete and that you could not take another step in that whole story until you had an impact on the interviews that former Minister Marghem and a third party of the candidates took off. Your predecessor has communicated that the procedure at Selor has been completed and that it is up to you to nominate a candidate. I understand from that communication, but I may have misunderstood that there will be no impact of the interviews and that your file will therefore remain as incomplete as it is today. What has happened in the past does not seem to be getting to you for some reason, which, of course, raises a lot of questions. Madam Secretary, did you ask your predecessor directly to complete that dossier? Did you get a response to that question and what was it like? Does that response confirm the public communication of your predecessor, as I have mentioned? What steps will you take now?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u66	Mr Wollants, I did indeed ask Mrs Marghem to send me the missing documents from the file by letter of 11 December. She was kind enough to deliver it to me last Thursday. We have asked BOSA what ideas we now have at our disposal and, after receiving the answer, I will weigh them against each other and make a decision. I will do so carefully, out of respect for the people who have applied and for the institution itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u67	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Allow me to find it a very strange way of doing things. For some reason, it seems that two parliamentary questions from someone from the opposition are needed in order to transport a file over a distance of 10 metres between two members of the majority. That does not seem to me to be the model of the wonderful cooperation it should be. I wonder what else to do. I am pleased that the procedure can now be continued, but to make it a model of the new political culture with which you have announced your government... I do not see it today and I fear that it will not be the last feat in that circus.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u68	Your name was mentioned, Mrs. Marghem. That's right. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u69	Mr President, thank you. Mr Wollants, I understand the length of the procedure, due to the great period of day-to-day business. You will remember why the previous governments found themselves in this situation. That's because your party decided, at one point, to leave the team. Secondly, it was impossible for the previous government to take a position, when I had brought this matter to maturity. On the sidelines of the duties of the position that I then held, it is true that the hearing of the candidates by the Minister of Energy was included. I complied with it. Since you then asked questions, to which I answered, I added a hearing of a particular type, because I wanted it totally objective. To this end, I assisted myself with the services of a qualified management person. I had to look for this document, which I did not have directly, but which I found. It's been just two or three months. For this reason, the Minister is not responsible. She wrote to me on December 11. I answered him. It will therefore continue the procedure, given that they are people and that it is also necessary to pay the utmost attention and thoroughness to this matter so that everything is carried out properly on the legal level. Of course, the minister will bring her own inflections, with this government, by taking her responsibilities in the direction she wishes. This does not mean that I would have acted in this way, but it is normal, since the initiative belongs to him. You will have the opportunity to ask him more questions later. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u70	Mr President, I suppose I am also entitled to a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u71	You have the last word. Unless the Minister wishes to add something else, I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u72	Madam Minister, I can only conclude that the new government has been in place since the beginning of October and that it apparently took until last Thursday before that piece of information from the previous minister got to you. I think that is a very bizarre course of action. I am quite prepared to conclude the matter, provided that we now move in the right direction. Nevertheless, the question remains whether we should do so in this way. Of course, I don't blame you for not getting the information. You must ask that question to whom has information on this matter. In any case, I think it's a bizarre process on the cheerful team that this purple-green-plus government is anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u73	Minister, the Government Agreement provides for the decision-making of a national medium- and high-level waste management policy B and C. The National Radioactive Waste and Fissile Material Organization (ONDRAF) file has been forwarded to you by your predecessor. You see, Mr. Wollants, there are files that are being transmitted! What actions have you taken so far to further advance this issue? It is of course essential that you know the destination of the highly radioactive waste before you are confronted with the dismantling of the plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u74	Mr President, I am therefore also responding to Mr Cogolati's questions concerning the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) but not to the question concerning Umicore?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u75	It is annoying to have joined these two questions, which have no connection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u76	The decision to attach these issues was taken by the secretariat, for which I have responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u77	I see no problem in the fact that the two questions are dissociated. It is true that they concern rather distinct subjects, even if we speak of radioactive waste. The minister will be able to answer my question about Umicore in a second time, unless she prefers to answer both questions at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u78	Minister, would you rather split the two questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u79	First of all, I will answer the question about ONDRAF read out by Mrs Marghem. By letter dated 25 September 2020, ONDRAF submitted its proposal for a national policy on the long-term management of high-activity and/or long-lived waste to its supervisory ministers. This ONDRAF proposal is based on the principle of geological storage and consists of a process of step-by-step adaptation of national policy. The Budget Proposals Act 1979-1980, which governs all matters relating to ONDRAF, provides that national policy must be determined by a royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers after the advice of AFCN. The full and final report containing the results of the consultation will be prepared in accordance with article 16 of the Act of 13 February 2006, which provides for the obligation to prepare a declaration summarizing how environmental considerations have been incorporated into the plan and how the environmental impact report and consultations have been taken into account. The above-mentioned declaration also summarizes the reasons why the plan as adopted was chosen, taking into account the other reasonable options envisaged, and specifies the main follow-up measures and the significant effects of the implementation of the plan or programme on the environment. In accordance with the law, this declaration will be published in the Belgian Moniteur at the time of the entry into force of the national policy, i.e. when the royal decree is issued. In the government agreement, the executive undertook to meet its European obligations in order to estimate the costs of long-term management of highly radioactive and long-lived waste. Similarly, in order to ensure compliance with the polluter pays principle, it undertook to adopt national policies to manage such waste in the long term. National policies should include modalities for the decision-making reversibility, recovery and monitoring of such waste. In accordance with this principle of decision-making reversibility, any decision must be subject to review. As provided for in the Government Agreement, this will allow, for example, if there is a valid solution, to reconsider the choices that have been made on long-term management, as well as on the modalities for the recovery of waste buried for a certain period of time. ONDRAF must continue to examine all possible options for the management of highly radioactive and long-lived waste throughout the process of adapting the national policy – which is expected to last several decades. In the next step, the participatory process will be defined. As required by the government agreement, this will go beyond citizen consultation. More detailed environmental impact assessments, including in a transboundary environment, will take place when geographical and geological aspects are taken into account in the process of adapting this national policy. In recent months, my collaborators and I have already discussed this with ONDRAF. On that occasion, I stressed the importance of the principles I have just listed and of a good participatory process. On this basis, I will request a revised version of the file which was submitted to the previous minister in September 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u80	Madam President, I have a little point of order. Is the meeting of the nuclear safety subcommittee well maintained at 12.15 p.m. or will the current committee continue? Apart from this point, I would like to thank the minister for her very clear position in favour of citizen participation. Personally, I would not like to repeat the unfortunate experience – the president knows, in particular, what I am talking about – in the province of Luxembourg, of the total incomprehension on the part of citizens and the local population with regard to the citizen consultation that took place in the midst of a health crisis. I commend the Minister's voluntarism to best involve the public and citizens in its decision-making that affects hundreds of generations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u81	Mr Cogolati, thank you. As far as your question is concerned, I think Mr Wollants will give the information and then I will give Mrs Marghem the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u82	Madam Chair, I will first make my reply and then he will ask his question. Madam Minister, thank you for your explanation. I fully agree with you that in these matters we must move forward with precision and prudence and follow very rigorously the legal prescription. I hear you are asking ONDRAF to revise the draft which I had given you and which was already the ONDRAF project after the public consultation which took place online, you will remember it, on the basis, despite the trials of Mr Cogolati, a majority of Parliament who considered this online consultation to be entirely valid. I also mean that you do want to complete this process by adding further consultations so that there is even greater public ownership of the matter. It's not a bad thing in itself. We know that this process will take years. You also add an additional principle of reversibility. You ask the ONDRAF, if I understand correctly - correct me if I'm wrong! - to re-examine this aspect of things to make you a new proposal. Do I understand correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u83	Madam President, I refer to my answer in which I spoke of the decision-making reversibility, the recovery and monitoring of these wastes. These three aspects are in the government agreement on this subject. You will understand that I am here to implement the government agreement on these three aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u84	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I will obviously have the opportunity to ask you more questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u85	To return to the organizational question concerning the meeting of the nuclear safety sub-committee, Mr Cogolati, we had the answer via the secretariat: the meeting will take place at 12.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u86	Mr. Cogolati, regarding your question about Umicore, the three authorized facilities are storage and not storage facilities. Former landfills that were used prior to 1960 do not have AFCN authorization. They are now subject to surveillance and protection measures implemented by the OVAM, the competent authority in Flanders, and not AFCN. The materials and waste concerned are mainly located in former landfills, such as D1 and S1 landfills on Umicore's land in Olen. A small volume of contaminated materials is located under some streets and trails in Olen and Geel. It is the responsibility of AFCN to monitor Belgian territory and, where appropriate, to ascertain the possible radiological contamination of the streets or the possible radiological contamination of underground areas. The AFCN has the authority to take all actions in the area of sanitation that it considers useful to protect the population. The radiation materials and wastes from Umicore to Olen cover a wide range of materials, both chemically and radiologically, ranging from very slightly contaminated materials with radium levels below 1 Bq/g to levels of about 1 100 Bq/g. This highly diversified chemical composition is due to the presence of waste from industrial processes, but also to the demolition of facilities and materials from land remediation operations and the Bankloop stream. Detailed chemical and radiological inventories of all sites containing radioactive materials and waste are available and form the basis of the preparatory studies for the remediation and storage project currently under consideration. The long-term management of radioactive radiation waste still needs to be the subject of a national policy in accordance with the legal requirements. Geological storage, as a national policy for the storage of this type of waste, is not yet fixed. This could lead to volumes of radioactive waste to be taken over by ONDRAF. ONDRAF has estimated the fraction of radioactive waste containing radium for geological storage. It was based on an indicative threshold of 1000 Bq/g proposed by the AFCN based on the knowledge of the inventory of radiiferous materials and waste present at the Umicore site in Olen. The first indicative and conservative estimate is 10,000 m3 of radioactive waste potentially destined for geological storage. ONDRAF stresses that this estimate is indicative and that it will need to be clarified in the future. If geological storage is to be used as a national policy, ONDRAF will develop possible scenarios for removal, separation, treatment and packaging for the storage and/or storage of the radifary material and waste in the UMTRAP facility. With regard to the current baseline geological storage scenario, ONDRAF provides in its reference inventory for high-activity and/or long-lived waste a volume of approximately 11,000 m3 of long-lived waste. The concept of a geological storage facility can be modified to take account of significantly larger volumes of waste than is currently planned. However, the estimation of the amount of radifary waste to be managed in a storage facility will need to be refined in the future in order to determine the consequences. ONDRAF considers that, on the basis of the elements currently available to it, the in-depth storage of this radifary waste does not pose insurmountable problems. As regards the provisions, the amount of EUR 30 million relates only to the maintenance and control of the authorised storage facility of UMTRAP and the protective measures for landfills D1 and S1. Pending a decision on geological storage as a national policy for storage, ONDRAF considers that such waste may continue to be stored in the UMTRAP facility under the control of AFCN. With regard to the polluter-pays principle, a more precise estimate of the costs of managing all the radioactive radiiferous waste from Umicore to Olen must be drawn up by Umicore. The long-term national management policy should be adopted as soon as possible. AFCN and ONDRAF are developing a common vision in consultation with Umicore and OVAM, which has been the subject of a joint vision note between AFCN and ONDRAF concerning Umicore in Olen and which could lead to the construction of a specific storage facility for these wastes. These are my answers, dear colleague and Dr. Samuel Cogolati.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u87	Madam Minister, I thank you in particular for your kind words of conclusion. I think there are other principles that are important. One realizes that one is faced with landfills which are still quite large with an estimated conservative volume of 10 000 m3, which would still double the size and volume of a long-term storage site for the most highly radioactive waste in Belgium. Secondly, where I really join you, it is on the polluter pays principle. It is really important to remember that these 30 million are really very little faced with the immensity of the cost of the long-term management of this waste. It is therefore crucial that the government and the state be able to impose the actual cost on Umicore, who remains the owner of these landfills, some of which are not even certified or authorized by the AFCN. For this reason, since Parliament, we will support this polluter-pays principle in order to prevent people – and therefore the state – from having to drink and pay for the long-term management of this poisonous legacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u88	Madam Secretary, on 14 December you placed an interesting tweet. You do that often, but this time it was extra interesting, because the tweet then disappeared again. You referred to, among other things, energy efficiency and the roll-out of wind energy at sea and hydro-energy. It was interesting to learn that this new "wind" will be used. Now that the tweet has disappeared and with that also the announcement that hydro-energy will be used, the question is what exactly did you mean by that? According to rumors in the corridors, the energy atoll would have been back from never leaving. Was that what you were referring to, and you hadn't knocked off that idea yet? In what way do you want to use the hydro-energy in the coming years? Are you considering reactivating the energy atoll file? How do you see that? If you are considering that, is that something that fits within the capacity mechanism, or is that not the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u89	Mr Wollants, Monday 14 December was a very interesting day for me, because it was the day of the Energy Council. Corona still has to meet online, but that doesn't affect the quality of the meetings or the interesting aspects that were discussed. There has also been very extensive talk about hydrogen or hydrogen and we have sent out a tweet to reflect what was discussed there. However, hydrogen was wrongly shortened to hydro. In order to avoid further confusion, we have effectively removed that tweet, because it could lead to confusion between hydrogen and hydropower. I confirm that it was about hydrogen and not hydropower, which also means that all your other questions are without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u90	Madam Secretary, I do not think my other questions are without object. Apart from the fact that you mean hydrogen, I also referred in my question to the fact that pressure is being exerted, perhaps by digital means, in all Cabinets to argue for the energy atoll. My question still stands whether you're considering reinvigorating that thing. I don't see why you wouldn't answer that. The fact that you have meant something else in your tweet does not alter the fact that the issue is still on the table, as my question raised. You do not answer my question whether or not you are considering the idea of energy atoll. I assume that, as with Mrs Marghem, you will answer my supplementary question in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u91	Madam President, Minister, NSEC and 14 December have already been discussed. On 14 December 2020, on the same day as the Energy Council, the discussion of the EU renewable offshore energy strategy and the follow-up initiatives of the European Commission in 2021 were on the agenda. The EU Strategy has taken on board many elements of the NSEC Joint Declaration of July 2020. We now know Next Generation EU and the European financial instrument Recovery and Resilience Facility, with 37% of the funds going to the green transition. This facility may be used under the Power Up flagship initiative to support reforms and investments in renewable offshore energy. It is crucial that Member States, in close cooperation with companies ready to invest, can present a number of developed projects. Do you remember, Madam Secretary, that in September 2020, when Next Generation EU and the Recovery and Resilience Facility first appeared in the press, the offshore sector immediately hoped that it would be able to submit some projects as part of the Belgian recovery plan? What decisions and commitments were taken within the NSEC of 14 December on the establishment of a framework for cross-border offshore wind projects that will reduce the barriers in this respect? What discussions took place on the European Commission's proposal on the creation of bidding zones? What explanation was given for the revision of the TEN-E Regulation, a planning tool for an integrated energy network? What explanation has been given for the role of European funds and offshore energy financing instruments? Can the Belgian approach to the Power Up flagship area be clarified in the Belgian plan, to be submitted by 30 April at the latest, in the context of the Recovery and Resilience Facility?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u92	Madam President, Mr Ravyts, the meeting was indeed on the same day, at the end of the day, and digitally. The meeting gave an overview of the work carried out in different working groups during 2020 and the progress made within NSEC. New, joint and hybrid projects and barriers were identified in 2020 and criteria were also developed for a fair sharing of costs and benefits and for agreements on the electricity market. Progress has also been made with a blueprint for collaborative models for joint and hybrid projects. The coordination of procurement was also continued, including the launch of an online procurement coordination tool. A working group on the harmonisation of technical standards has been set up. The coordination of network planning at sea and land-use planning has been reviewed. Options for multiple and more efficient use of maritime space have also been launched without dividing the sea into different zones. The first concepts have been developed for combining wind at sea and hydrogen production. Finally, a study was launched on the vision of wind energy at sea until 2050. That's for the past, perhaps the future interests you more. Belgium is NSEC for this year. So I have also explained my concerns and planned activities for the forthcoming Belgian Presidency. The previous Presidency intended to sign the new political declaration for NSEC. This would pave the way for further international cooperation on wind in the North Sea. NSEC was held above the baptismal font in 2009. Belgium was one of the countries that NSEC co-founded. We are now about ten years away, but we are also in a next phase for wind at sea. It is expected that nearshore wind projects will be developed and space built. The next step is farshore, but also the connection of those networks. That is what we discussed at the beginning of the meeting, about the project with Denmark. There must therefore also be a second phase within NSEC. It is my intention to complete the renewed political declaration, which the previous presidency was unable to complete in Germany, in December. Many of the countries within NSEC, including Belgium, have important projects with the United Kingdom. In the topical debate I referred to the Nautilus project, a collaboration with England. We need to look further at the extent to which we can renew cooperation with England, taking into account the Brexit context and the changed relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom. My point of view as President of NSEC is that the North Sea is our partner because of the lack of a good Dutch equivalent.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We all have a North Sea coast. The North Sea can become our largest power plant. This cooperation between the various countries, including the UK, is an important aspect during our presidency. We will see how we can find a common basis for offshore wind and long-term networks. I have, of course, asked my colleagues to put forward the points of interest which they would like to discuss further in the context of NSEC. So far, my fellow Members have particularly expressed their desire to work on these issues. Discussions on the bidding zones should be initiated. That's a hot topic. The European Commission has launched a proposal which should now be discussed in the Energy Working Group. I'm asking my administration to discuss this with all the parties involved. With us, it's with Elijah and the CREG. I will come back to this later. The proposal on the revision of the TEN-E Regulation was published on 15 December. Here, too, discussions are still to begin. I can, however, as an important point, point out that the development of an integrated offshore network in TEN-E is one of the priorities. The Regulation was amended accordingly. That is also an aspect shared by almost all my colleagues in the energy sector. Then I come to your questions regarding the flagship Power Up. In the context of recovery, the Power Up approach reflects the ambitious renewable energy targets at EU level and recent strategies for the integration of energy systems and hydrogen. Through this flagship, the Commission intends to encourage Member States to accelerate reforms and investments for future-proof clean technologies and to accelerate the development and use of renewable energy sources, together with integration through modernised networks and improved interconnectivity. I would like to draw attention to the beginning of the sentence, especially for Mr Wollants: in the context of recovery, we are moving towards system integration, towards the roll-out of offshore infrastructure investments. As part of our federal relance plan, I want to focus on projects that Belgium continues to put on the map for offshore wind. Thanks to the pioneer spirit of our companies, we are now the fourth largest player in offshore winds worldwide. I want to keep that pioneering role. That is why I am speeding up the interconnection between the different countries, as this is the way forward, also for our country, and a way to further valorise our expertise. Projects under the Relance Plan will facilitate this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u93	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. In your review of what you want to see happen in NSEC this year, you have indeed addressed all the points. Of course, that gives food for further oral questions. I am looking forward to the implementation of offshore projects within the framework of the recovery plan. We in this committee must also pay attention to this. I would not want everything to happen with Mr Dermine. The members of our committee also deserve the necessary explanation about Power Up and the flagship area. We must look at how we plan this with the chairman of this committee. There's still a lot of work on the shelf.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u94	Madam Secretary, you mentioned my name. Part of your answer has actually been devoted to the previous question I asked. I conclude from that answer that you are not considering reinvigorating the energy atoll. At least that's worth mentioning. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u95	Madam Minister, in the wake of my motion for a resolution, hearings on hydrogen will soon be held in our committee. EU ministers apparently agreed on 14 December last year on framework policy conclusions to promote a European hydrogen market. They called on the European Commission to develop a path towards at least 6 GW of electrolysis capacity at European level by 2024, to scale up to 40 GW in 2030. Initially, the view was that the focus should be on green hydrogen, but it was stated that there is also room for blue hydrogen, even if it is not CO2 free but low carbon due to unavoidable process emissions, and CCS could play a role for those Member States that would opt for that technology. Madam Minister, I would have liked to have some explanation of those framework policy conclusions to promote a European hydrogen market. Is Belgium at all interested in large-scale cross-border hydrogen projects where the European cluster cooperation platform can be used? I have often said in the past that the key to reducing the cost of green hydrogen is the input costs of electricity. We are looking, among other things, at the offshore infrastructure, which can play an important role with energy islands or hubs. This means that offshore hydrogen production appears on the radar. Do you see possibilities for Belgium to cooperate with the Netherlands for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u96	Madam President, Minister, as part of the recovery plan, a number of projects concern energy production. Among these, there is green hydrogen. A hydrogen industry is a major issue, both for its production and for its transport. As part of its Green Deal, the European Union has put in place a hydrogen strategy to make this gas an important energy source by 2050. In this context, it is expected to account for between 12 and 14 % of the energy mix in Europe. Minister, the recovery plan has been validated by the various federated entities. What does this mean with regard to the hydrogen development project? What objectives have been set for the production of this energy and its storage? Have these objectives been set by Region or overall? Do you intend to commission studies to determine the feasibility of further deployment and applications of hydrogen in Belgium? Finally, several car brands have launched innovative projects with vehicles whose fuel is hydrogen. Have any contacts been made with the automotive sector on the potential of this gas? If so, what does it show?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u97	Madam President, Minister, hydrogen can be produced in a number of ways. One solution is to use electrolysis, with an electric current dividing water into oxygen and hydrogen. If the electricity used in the process comes from a renewable source such as wind, then it is referred to as "green" or "renewable" hydrogen. Denmark, in particular, is currently developing projects to exploit offshore wind energy to produce green hydrogen. This is an example that Belgium could no doubt follow as far as it is – as we all know – the fourth largest producer of offshore wind energy and is in the top 3 in Europe. In this context and in response to one of my previous questions about research and development on decarbonised hydrogen and green hydrogen, you told me that at the federal level, you had "started a journey to clarify, in the context of the energy transition, the future role of gases and molecules in the Belgian energy system, in collaboration with stakeholders. Particular attention will also be paid to hydrogen on this journey, which will take place for several months. This route will provide a general framework for the subsequent development of specific hydrogen regulations, while taking into account the evolution of the European framework in this field. This should allow, among other things, the rapid development of a hydrogen backbone as also indicated in the government agreement. Madam Minister, at a time when the European Union and several Member States have already, as you know, drawn up a "hydrogen strategy", I too would like to know where we are today. You took the initiative of a journey, of a road map. Could you just tell us more about this? Do you also consult the Regions about this, regarding their deployment plan via the DSOs?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you all for your two-tiered questions. On the one hand, they focus on what is happening at European level, and on the other, on what this means for the progress of things in our country. Madam President, I very much welcome the work you are beginning with this committee, particularly on hydrogen. I am convinced that hydrogen is a strategic element of our energy vision. I would be very interested to cooperate with you in moving forward together in this committee. Firstly, the aspects relating to Europe. This is another demand for the Energy Council of December. I'm really glad those questions are coming. I am always prepared to come to the committee specifically on European meetings in order to have a separate exchange of views on the agenda, what was discussed and what the conclusions were. This would be of interest from Parliament. Of course, Europe largely determines the framework in which we subscribe. I am always prepared to have a separate exchange of views on this subject, as desired. More specifically on the Council conclusions on hydrogen. The European Council and the European Commission see the use of hydrogen in sectors that are difficult to decarbonise as a necessary step in the transition to carbon neutrality and consider the development of the hydrogen sector as a strategically important sector for Europe. The same applies to Belgium. Secondly, I am speaking this afternoon at a Fluxys webinar, which is specifically about this: how can hydrogen be used in sectors where decarbonisation is more difficult, what added role can hydrogen play there and how can it support our energy-intensive industry? As far as the conclusions are concerned, given the differences that exist between Member States, the Council has, with these generally balanced conclusions, set out a clear time frame to underline European ambitions. The procedure for the Important Projects of Common European Interest (IPCEI) for hydrogen also fits in with this vision. Belgium has supported the European launch. We signed a manifesto on 17 December. In spring 2020, a pathway was set up within Belgium to identify suitable projects, at which time it was not clear what the financial contribution from the federal government would be. At a later stage, the selected projects will be brought together at European level to form an overarching whole. The IPCEI as well as the recovery plan can be interesting levers to promote hydrogen projects, whether cross-border or otherwise. We discussed the interaction between hydrogen and offshore winds earlier during the first topical debate and in response to the President's question. This is indeed being discussed at EU level within the framework of NSEC, but also bilaterally. Due to the loss of efficiency in the conversion of electricity to hydrogen, it remains advisable to initially integrate this energy into our electricity grid. Opportunities for offshore hydrogen production will only become interesting in a second phase and in the longer term. For the possibilities of cooperation, I refer to our first topical debate of the day at the beginning of the committee on the memorandum of understanding between Belgium and Denmark. During that debate, I also indicated that I had recently spoken with Eric Wiebes, who was just before his resignation, to see how we could explore possibilities for cooperation. I now turn to the questions raised by Messrs. Bombled and Ben Achour. The recovery plan provides for the development of various hydrogen-related projects, including the creation of a hydrogen backbone and background work on the certification of the origin of hydrogen produced from renewable sources. These projects will support the emergence of this future sector in our country. I am currently working with the Regions on a clear division of competences in relation to hydrogen, its production, transport and storage. My administration is currently developing a study on the future of gas, in collaboration with an external consultant. This work is carried out through close contacts with the sector, so as to take into account the advantages and disadvantages of each energy source, as well as the constraints specific to each application. The role of hydrogen is obviously an integral part of this analysis. This is a typical topic of the complementarity of regional and federal jurisdictions, which provides an ideal time for their review. There is no discussion of federal jurisdiction for the transport of hydrogen. We are in the process of finalizing this summary note in the form of a table containing the respective competences. As for green hydrogen, I refer to what I said about the desire to build a dorsal, in which free access is essential, Mr Ben Achour. We are also looking at how to adjust the gas law in this direction. Work is under way on this. I hope to come quickly to you with this project, but I cannot give you a timetable because of the complexity of the task, which also requires a thorough analysis. Anyway, I'm moving in the right direction. Of course, we remain in contact with regional authorities to coordinate policy in this area and to work complementaryly with regional initiatives. In that sense, I had a meeting with Mrs. Crevits last week and Mr. Henry two weeks ago. With the first, I discussed a collaboration around a concrete proposal under federal and regional jurisdiction, with the aim of moving forward together. This policy is strategic for our country. We must be able to move forward together, each with respect for its own powers, in search of complementarities between the federal and the regions. As I have told you on several occasions, for the federal government, the importance lies at the level of this hydrogen backbone. The framework is very important for the market to develop this industry. To close, Madam President, I have been asked by the committee to examine a study which would have been made on the distribution of powers related to hydrogen. Work has indeed begun on this division of competences. But this work was in the form of a study project. It's something that hasn't been finalized and that didn't allow me to move forward. At the same time, as I said – and I hope you heard it – we are working on a synthetic note on skills. I therefore propose that you finalize these conclusions and share them with you as you work on hydrogen. For me, it is very important to find this common foundation between the Federal and the Regions because it will be the foundation and foundation of the industry. I am talking about infrastructure but also about supply and demand. All this can develop if a framework is developed that provides predictability and is safe for the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u99	Thank you, minister, for these very comprehensive answers to our commission. We're going to the replicas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u100	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. You rightly point out that hydrogen will be a strategic element for the future. You indicate that, after a number of European meetings, you would like to give a separate explanation, which I very much welcome, all the more so because it is quite important. In addition to the European initiatives, I think that we should try as much as possible to rely on our own forces, on what we can do ourselves. I am also pleased that a study on the division of powers will soon be completed. The conclusions will undoubtedly be a useful element in the debate we will have on the subject in the coming period. Even though the Member States have different views, Belgium has already agreed to the European ambitions. At the same time, you will recall that there is still a great deal of energy loss in hydrogen technology and that we must first pump the energy into the grid. I believe that technology has a very positive evolution and that it is becoming increasingly less and less energy loss. However, you have put your finger on the wound when you say that the energy should initially be injected into the net. We want to, but we can't: we simply don't have an energy surplus. We can then devote a lot of studies to hydrogen and associated applications, but it will, I fear, remain our Achilles heel for the time being that we have no or insufficient green energy to live up to the hydrogen ambitions in the future. You will therefore have to take a great deal of action in this area. In the coming period, we will certainly discuss this and I will continue to question you about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u101	Minister, thank you for your answers. One of the important issues on which the federal and the Regions agree is that of hydrogen, including green hydrogen. I have read that Flanders wants to support experimental projects in the process of hydrogen production. Wallonia should also be part of this dynamic through green hydrogen production projects. Hydrogen is really a topical issue. As you mentioned, this will be discussed in the Committee on Energy and Climate in the near future. In my opinion, this project has a good future ahead of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u102	Minister, thank you for your very reassuring answers to the government's ambitions. If we had no doubts about this, you have confirmed that hydrogen is one of the major strategic axes on which we must invest. Indeed, we need to raise an important issue, namely to avoid being lagging behind at European level. We're at the cutting edge for offshore wind. We should not be lagging behind in hydrogen, especially green hydrogen. France, the Netherlands, Germany and Portugal presented hydrogen strategies. It is therefore time to accelerate things and create value chains, frameworks, as you said, around this industrial and transition issue. In this respect, I would like to point out that my group is the depositary of a motion for a resolution aimed at promoting technological development linked to clean and decarbonised hydrogen as an energy vector for the future. As you have expressed your wish, we will soon have an opportunity to discuss it in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u103	Madam Minister, the exchange of views following the policy statement in this committee and in the plenary session has not made us much wiser about the energy standard. However, I suspect that work has already taken place in the meantime to explain how we should understand the passage in the coalition agreement on this subject. The definition of the energy standard has changed somewhat compared to the definition used by the previous minister and the previous government agreement. So the question is, on the one hand, what are the reasons for this and, on the other hand, what steps do you intend to take in the context of the preparation of the energy standard? I would have liked to ask you about the following elements, Madam Minister. The energy standard used to aim to ensure that the different components of energy costs were not higher than in the surrounding countries. In the version we are discussing today, we are talking about exceeding a certain threshold which could lead to certain measures. Does the intention remain to ensure that energy costs do not exceed those in the surrounding countries, or is that not the intention? There seems to be no longer any reference to energy intensity, a problem facing a number of sectors. Is it your intention to pay particular attention to the energy intensity component in the context of the energy standard or does it not play a role as a starting point for this exercise? What kind of planning are you planning to further develop the concept of the energy standard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u104	At the request of the various energy ministers at the time in the light of the inter-federal energy pact, PwC carried out a comparative study on electricity and natural gas prices in Belgium and neighbouring countries in 2019 and 2020 in a joint mission of the four energy regulators. The report deals with January 2020 prices. This shows that in Belgium we pay relatively little for natural gas, but also that Belgian families, SMEs and electro-intensive industries pay a high electricity bill. The impact of energy prices on competitiveness was also examined. The joint study would be updated in 2021, 2022 and 2023. It has always been said that the common study of the CREG and the three other regional regulators should serve as a reference for a possible energy standard. The Federal Government Agreement states: "An energy standard is introduced for businesses and consumers." That's all. However, it is striking that the government agreement on the energy standard less explicitly addresses the need for such a standard in the context of the competitive disadvantage of energy-intensive companies. Mr Wollants quoted this in a different way. The government agreement talks about exceeding objectively defined thresholds, but does not refer directly to the comparative study with neighbouring countries. In addition, during the discussion of its policy letter, the Minister was not yet able to give a "precise" response to the implementation of this announced energy standard. Perhaps you can explain a little more and be more precise today. What is the planned time frame? To what extent does the study carried out by PwC still serve as a reference for the intentions of this government with regard to the energy standard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u105	It is well-assessed of you that there might be some progress in the dossier, which is the case. The coalition agreement is central to the content of the energy standard and the reference to electro-intensity. This is about protecting the purchasing power of families, but also about the competitiveness of businesses. How we set a precise benchmark is, of course, part of that exercise. This study by PwC, to which reference is made, carried out on behalf of the four regulators, plays a key role. This study also looks very specifically at the situation of the electro-intensive companies. At the same time, I don't want to be locked up in the PwC study. That is a good basis for me, but I will continue to consult with the regulators and the various stakeholders to see if certain refinements may need to be applied to the research questions of the consultants. When developing the mechanism, we must, of course, strictly comply with the European guidelines on State aid. However, a distinction is needed based on electro-intensity. This still allows a limit to 15% of the contribution due to be determined. The principles of the State aid rules are important, but the aim is to examine, in consultation with stakeholders, how to implement this specifically within Belgium, in line with the guidelines, but of course adapted to our context. As regards the state of play and planning, last week we had a meeting with the CREG to get a complete overview of the already prepared works. The CREG is, of course, our first and most important partner. The next step is that with the input, on the basis of which we can organize our thoughts more, we come together with the stakeholders, because they also have research and input that we want to take with us from the start of the process. That will allow us to get on with the work. Perhaps you will now say that this is still not concrete enough, but the work has started. There is a planning and we are working on it, step by step.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u106	I've learned a little bit, Madam Secretary. So that's a good move. I have also learned that the more questions we ask, the better things progress. You know where that leads. I believe, however, that after so many years we will have to become more and more specific about this. Consultation with stakeholders is important, but you also need to see the stakeholder group wide enough. Consultations should not be confined to the electricity and gas industries. The consumer side, families, SMEs and other companies need to be considered in order to identify the direction in which it could evolve. On the one hand, those who are engaged in energy in the market are on the other hand those who also have to pay. The combination of these two is important. It is not yet clear to me how you want to deal with it on the consumer side, for example for SMEs and families, because they will, in particular, feel the impact if action is not taken under the energy standard. In this respect, I look forward to the steps that will be taken. I am also curious whether the consultation with stakeholders will produce results that can be reported here in our committee, so that we can continue to have a good picture of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u107	Madam President, Minister, I would like to thank you for clarifying the role of the PwC study, even if you do not wish to be included in it. I take note of the further consultation with the regulator and the stakeholders. Of course there will be a balance, there is the European framework on state aid, but there is also the application within the Belgian context. We look forward to further evolution. Oral questions are, for the time being, a suitable tool for further information, in so many dossiers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u108	Madam President, I understand that these combined questions involve several debates. The Minister is asking for these debates to be held in succession. I don't know if this is possible. If not, there will be a long list of very different questions to which no real coherent answer can follow. Of course, I do not know whether the Minister has divided her answer into question-related blocks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u109	Madam President, a number of questions on the state of play of the resolution. I have prepared an answer for this. The other questions focus on aspects and partial aspects of the CRM. I suspect that the questions on this can be separated from those on the resolution. If not, and given the advanced hour, I fear I will not be able to answer all the questions until next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u110	I have a proposal to that effect. Perhaps it is possible that the Members who have tabled questions will put them one after the other, given the time we have left. Like the minister, must leave us at 1:30 p.m., this should allow us to move forward. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that four members have tabled separate questions on the subject. If this is the right way for you, minister, you will answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u111	Madam President, my questions are essentially technical, but they are also important. In any case, I am opposed to the idea of splitting the questions into blocks for the CRM file. But, if I understand correctly, that is not your proposal. As far as I am concerned, I propose that Members who have tabled questions should refer to their written questions. In any case, there is an urgent need for the above-mentioned file. Indeed, this is a crucial issue and I would not like the debate to be postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u112	The goal is not to split anything. Given that we have limited time, that we have 30 minutes to move forward, that there are relatively many questions, and that four Members have tabled separate questions on the MRC, I have proposed that the interested parties ask their questions at one time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u113	Madam President, I would just like to point out that the number of questions will increase over time. The Chair has established his case law in a fairly regulatory manner. In any event, the questions that will not be answered today will be asked at a later stage. It would therefore be desirable to review the schedule of our meetings so that oral questions can be answered sequentially on the basis of a faster pace than once a month. I would point out that the minister has answered questions for the last time in this committee at the beginning of December, but she is not responsible for them. However, we are now, so to speak, arriving at the end of January. As a result, there was considerable time between the two meetings, knowing that there had been the end-of-year leave. The aim is to try to have a continuum of work that effectively avoids, as one speaker has said, that, from one meeting to another, questions that require a substantive debate and are precisely in this continuum are being cut off.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u114	Madam President, I disagree with Mrs Marghem. If I ask questions, it's for answers. I do not understand that Mrs Marghem could consider asking questions without having answers. That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u115	Mr. Warmoes, you don't understand what I mean.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u116	If you don't mind, I'll synthesize, Mrs. Marghem. No one here in the room wanted someone to be cut off in his speech or that the debate should be divided into several meetings, which could pose organizational problems. We can all agree that when dealing with a subject, it is good to be able to deal in depth with it at a single meeting. In this case, I propose that we start asking questions already and we take note of Mrs Marghem's remark to adjust the order of business to have a "cadence" on the CRM subject which is sufficiently regular for the members of this committee. I now give the floor to Mr Wollants for all his questions, if he agrees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u117	Madam Minister, I have four questions for you in four blocks, namely on the resolution, on the indepth investigation, on the Value of Lost Load (VoLL) and on the Borssele plant. The resolution included provisions to encourage the Minister of Energy to inform Parliament, to involve Parliament in the CRM scheme and to steer it in the right direction. To this end, proposals on the reduction of federal extra costs and degressivity had to be submitted by the end of 2020. We also wanted to recalculate the cost of the CRM mechanism. Thirdly, we wanted a proposal to improve the competitive electricity production in the wholesale market following the introduction of the capacity compensation mechanism in 2025. In the past, during the plenary session, you said that the documents would be there, that you wanted to come to Parliament with something good and solid, and that you certainly didn't want to send Parliament out with nothing. In view of the fact that, at the time, we had considered the timing of our question on the submission of documents, I can assume that the process has now been completed for those three elements. Can you give us an update? When can we expect the documents? When can we schedule a moment to discuss this? The second block is about the in-depth investigation. Commissioner Vestager made a decision on the CRM in September 2020 and sent you a letter. You also replied to that letter a month later with a number of elements and with a number of questions to the European Commission. In the meantime, have you received any answers to your letter of 22 October 2020? Can you share those answers with the committee? What steps do you expect in the coming months? What further consultations have you scheduled with the European Commissioner in the context of the State aid investigation? On the third block, namely the Value of Lost Load study (Voll) and the famous letter asking the CREG not to continue its study work on this subject, in which the CREG has resigned, we have also debated a number of times. You promised at that time that you would make the information available to Parliament. However, if I am correct, we have not yet received this information. Can you confirm that you received that information from the CREG? Could you make those documents available to the members of the committee? In the past, you have indicated that you would reserve the power for the single estimate of the value of the lost tax for yourself, as stated in the letter to the CREG, or give it to the AD Energy. When can we expect the draft law on this matter in committee? I have a specific question that follows a discussion that we had in 2019 when discussing the CRM Act. This concerns the question of whether indirect foreign capacity could also take the form of nuclear capacity. According to Elia's report, a certain volume is possible on Dutch soil. We are talking about 599 MW, which means that the Borssele nuclear power station should normally be able to participate. This also means, of course, that the 1973 plant could receive up to EUR 10 million per year through the CRM. There has always been a demand for an energy-neutral mechanism and the possibility of integrating foreign capacity has always been a requirement of Europe. Is there any reason why that nuclear power plant could not or should not participate in the mechanism, or can you not rule it out today?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u118	Mr Wollants, thank you for the synthetic nature of your speech. Mr Ravyts, if you could do the same in order to allow everyone to debate, the members of the committee would appreciate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u119	Madam Minister, during the plenary budget negotiations on 16 December 2020, you and Mr Wollants had a kind of discord about the CRM resolution. You have always said that the resolution will help define the route of CRM design and the affordability of CRM. You said then that the documents relating to cost recalculation, the report on possible improvements in competitive electricity production in a wholesale market, a proposal on degressivity and the way in which the federal share of the invoice would fall would be ready by 31 December. You pointed out that between 1 October and 31 December you had a lot of preparatory sessions on those points with the CREG, Elia and the AD Energy. That's the first part. The second part concerns the preliminary draft Royal Decree establishing the method of calculating the volume of capacity and the parameters necessary for the organisation of the auctions, which you call the funnel for the determination of volume. To this end, opinions from the CREG and the AD Energy were expected in November, December and January. We have Elijah's report on 15 November. The CREG was also required to give an opinion on Elia's proposal on non-volume-related parameters, including the derating factors. By 1 February, which is very soon, the CREG will have to draw up a proposal for a demand curve, on which an opinion from the AD Energy and Elia will have to follow. Can you give an update on all these elements? What progress has been made in preparing the functioning rules for the CRM, as there have been public consultations to this end? What is the state of play with regard to Elijah's capacity contract proposal? Here too, there is the context of the public consultation. I would like to talk about the in-depth investigation of the Competition DG of the European Commission. What's the status of that file? In recent months, from November onwards, have you had any contact with the competent European authorities on the dossier? Have you received any further explanations regarding the investigation? Can you also outline the adverse scenario scenarios for the next few months?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u120	Madam President, I have two specific questions. Minister, you introduced to the government last Friday a proposed amendment-recast of the MRC legal framework. Which law firm did he support you in your task? On the basis of which public procurement? What changes have you developed in your project? What specific points do they relate to? Should you question the Council of State and return to the Council of Ministers? Will it not be necessary to represent your case in Europe, given these changes? If so, do you not fear that all this will further slow down the journey of the CRM? In addition, resolution 1220, of 8 pages, which I have reread to refresh my memory, to which you have contributed highly in harmony with Mr Wollants, provided for a series of government obligations to Parliament with regard to transparency in determining the volume of gas and parameters, already before the end of December 2020. It's 2021. How do you intend to refer in practice to the obligations that you yourself have entered into in this resolution in a short period of time? My second question is much more technical. Minister, does the CRM provide for specific climate, environmental or technical taxation or specific sustainability criteria? This would be the case if one imagined that gas-fired power plants should be able to burn green gas (this is desirable) or hydrogen, or capture a certain percentage of C02, for example. To the extent that they are built for a minimum of 20 years, should they be adaptable? In other words, are you going to predict under public procurement conditions that they will be? In this case, knowing that building a hydrogen network is a technical challenge, what of the development plan of Elia (the cables are not the same) or of Fluxys (the pipes are not the same)? So what is the economic impact on the consumer and the taxpayer that should be expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u121	Mr Warmoes, as I have asked your colleagues, I will invite you to be synthetic, to allow the minister to reply, with a view to the proper functioning of this committee. That would be nice of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u122	My first question concerns the reference scenario. As you know, the reference scenario is very important, because for every model: bullshit in = bullshit out. That's a familiar rule. Elia published a first study in November 2020, which serves as input for the CREG to determine the demand curve of the CRM. In the study, Elia describes the reference scenario and then calibrates it. In the report we find nowhere the result of the calibration. I have a number of questions about that, Madam Secretary. Based on the calibrated scenario, Elia calculates different volumes. On the basis of these figures, the demand curve will be calculated. Can you explain exactly how the CREG can calculate this? My associate has already made an attempt to calculate this, to check whether that calculation is somewhat correct. Another question concerns the credit rating factors of the CRM. In the same Elia study, there is a proposal for the rating factors. These are the factors determining the contributions of the different technologies to security of supply. Elijah's proposal is particularly remarkable. Firstly, I saw that there are derating factors for coal and nuclear energy which are excluded from the CRM for various reasons. Secondly, a devaluation factor of 96% is given for nuclear energy. That is very surprising, because the availability of nuclear power stations is never so high. According to Le Soir, they were 62 % of the time operational in 2020, 78 % in 2019 and only 51 % in 2018. We are not talking about the time that is important in the context of the CRM. Thirdly, the same applies to the derating factors of the gas plants. These are all above 90 %, while in literature we usually only find a load factor of up to 80 to 85 %. Madam Secretary, how do you explain the very high derating factors for the gas plants? Just as remarkable, Elijah's derating factors for demand response and renewable energy are very low. How do you explain this? I'll move on to my next question. In your letter to Elia of 20 October 2020 on intermediate values, you decided to increase correction factor X from 1.1 to 1.5. The correction factor X is very important, because it is multiplied by the Net CENE parameter to determine the price limit of the CRM. In other words, if the correction factor goes from 1.1 to 1.5, you increase the CRM price limit. My question is why you did that. You yourself say that you have done so because other European countries would have a higher correction factor, but I do not think that we can compare Belgium's CRM with that of other countries. Moreover, I find it strange because the CREG had submitted an argumented proposal with a lower correction factor, which you are not proposing. In the past, the CREG put forward another proposal to reduce the cost of the CRM, based on the VOLL and the ANS, but your predecessor, present in this committee, also wiped that proposal off the table. The CREG has repeatedly warned that the costs of the CRM are likely to exceed the benefits. In other words, in addition to the responsibility I ask of you, I would like to know whether you believe that the costs of CRM will be adequately controlled. I come to my next question; it is getting more and more technical. This question concerns the parameter CONE, which I have just spoken about. Elia first set an intermediate price limit of 21 euros per kilowatt per year in her study, and then reached a higher intermediate price limit of 28.3 euros per kilowatt per year, and argues why that higher price limit should be applied. That is annoying, because you, as the author of the well-known CRM resolution of July 2020, have set a maximum value of EUR 20 per kilowatt per year. Again, that factor is important for determining the final price of the CRM, according to the formula I set out in my previous question. Madam Minister, why is the CONE parameter and the intermediate price limit determined on the basis of the technology with the highest missing money? If another type of gas plant, for example an OCGT plant or a turbojet, is cheaper, why do you want to be able to subsidise the CEEC plants, as that is the result? Why is CRM being opened up to the most expensive technology? Will you follow Elia in the price limit of EUR 28.3 per kilowatt per year, or will you stick to a maximum of EUR 20 per kilowatt per year, as requested in the CRM resolution? The next question concerns the CRM resolution itself. I would like to draw your attention to a number of transparency obligations contained therein. You are also the author of that resolution. I've highlighted three of them. "The Minister must consult the Chamber on the scenario to be selected." That's request A.1. This consultation takes place for the first time in 2021, but the scenario has already been selected. That is contrary to the resolution. Do you still intend to organise an exchange of views with us on this scenario? Can we still make our point about that? Secondly, as regards the cost balance, I would like to quote B.2 of the resolution: 'Delivering this calculation to the Chamber of Representatives and to the CREG before the end of 2020'. In an earlier reply, you said that the tender for this study had started. Then what is the state of the study? When can we get the results? Actually, it's a little late. Will you deliver these for the first auction decision? Thirdly, on the way in which the CRM is financed, the resolution asks you "to propose a concrete proposal to the Chamber of Representatives by the end of 2020 at the latest." That's request C.3. The resolution now asks you to do so, but at that time you were still a People's Representative and not a Minister. So that is also about degressivity. When will you come to this committee with a concrete proposal on the financing of the CRM? I will continue with my next question about something that we have talked about on a regular basis, namely about the climate years in question and taking into account the climate study of the VUB in the CRM reference scenario, which I started as the first question, from the principle of bullshit in = bullshit out. To my question about the reference scenario, you replied in a previous round of questions that the most recent European central assessment, the MAF 2019, would be the scenario and that the climate database would be used from the start of the measurements. In this way, of course, the criticism of the CREG and the insights of the VUB climate study show that the predicted problems of security of supply will not occur at all if we take account of the climate, as the risk of severe winters is significantly reduced. In the meantime, of course, there is the new European ERAA methodology which, as you undoubtedly know, leaves three options open. Two of them effectively attempt to take into account the trend of climate change, on the one hand by modelling, on the other hand by weighing over the years. The third option does not do this, but limits the use of climate years to the 30th most recent. As you know, at the request of the CREG, Elijah carried out such a model based on the 30 most recent years. This shows once again that there is no problem with security of supply provided that we continue to apply the system of the strategic reserve, as the supply problems are, as is well known, caused by one of the two severe winters of 1984 and 1986. After all, they take the 30 most recent years and leave 2015. My questions in this connection are as follows. Why don't you take this into account? You know that the number of climate years used is very sensitive to the final results and that the current approach is contrary to the European methodology. Why not just take account of the last 30 years? What is the position of the CREG? Do you agree with her argument and view that the strategic reserve is sufficient? Why is that, or why not? As far as Elia's biennial adequacy study is concerned, it is again about the European methodology with these three options. What is the ratio between the adequacy study 2022-2032, which will be published in June 2021, i.e. after the auction, and the first CRM auction? Will the results of that study still have an impact on the first CRM auction? The reference scenario of the first CRM auction does not take into account climate change, which I mentioned earlier. Madam President, I have done my best to keep it concise and I think I have succeeded.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u123	Madam President, I would like to make a proposal, because I actually have to leave. I can now first answer all the questions relating to the resolution, because they threaten to be dated, which is unfortunate for Members of this House, for myself and for the committee in general. In the meantime, the commission and my cabinet have already arranged for me to come back next Tuesday in the morning and perhaps we will be able to discuss the technical aspects more. As far as the resolution is concerned, I will reply to the questions and at the same time make a number of comments. As regards point B.2 of the resolution, a consultant was selected by my administration to calculate the cost of the CRM. That's the consultant haulogy. We have included in the resolution a new cost calculation that takes into account all the information at that time, because changes to the design and adjustments that follow from the CRM resolution have been made between the first cost calculation at the beginning and a while ago. In order to be able to make a better assessment, it is of course still an assessment as long as we are not at the auction we will update it. The first cost estimates were provided by the end of 2020. This was then discussed within the follow-up committee, which you will be discussing in two weeks' time, and with the CREG, which has been given a role in the resolution in order to comment on its delivery, but which has also asked me to be called upon to do so, in such a way that a number of exchanges can already take place between the consultant and the CREG. Of course, the CREG will not have any comments at all, but it has been possible to discuss a number of aspects in advance. The follow-up committee has been given until 11 January to submit comments to the consultant and we are currently at the stage of finalisation. I therefore expect to be able to submit it to Parliament in the near future. The regulator will then, of course, be invited to comment within two weeks of receipt. I will deliver it myself to the President of Parliament and to the CREG. Of course, Parliament will do so separately. We are thoroughly evaluating the proposals with the aim of protecting the purchasing power of families and the competitiveness of businesses. In order to provide substantiated work, the analysis will be based on the latest cost assessment of haulogy because the design has evolved, also on the basis of our resolution. I expect to be able to clarify this in the spring. I also refer to the questions and answers that have just been given on the energy standard. These aspects also have to do with each other. For those who know the theme well in the details: the federal share of "Who pays what," what is the impact on which customer groups "Who" has to do with this. I would also like to take with me the work on the energy standard in this context. I asked the CREG to provide me with a report by the end of January on suggestions for a competitive electricity production and wholesale market in Belgium. That is point D.1 of the resolution. There were no questions asked about this, but I'll give it to you. It was also discussed earlier when the CREG asked the Minister for guidance. I gave it to him too. In the short term, I will deliver the new cost estimate and the report on competition in the electricity production and wholesale markets. We are also continuing to work on proposals to protect the purchasing power of families and the competitiveness of businesses. I will, of course, remain at your disposal to answer any questions relating to this matter. I certainly also replied to Mrs Marghem's questions concerning the resolution. Mr Warmoes spoke to me about the other transparency obligations, including the calibration report by Elia. I delivered this to Parliament. That was in the margins of a plenary session. I have also said that, of course, I am available to have an exchange of views on this, but it is still up to Parliament itself to organise its work. I didn't get any further questions about that either. You cannot blame me for not answering questions that are not being asked. That report's been delivered. In the margins of the CRM resolution, you also had further questions, but I have only stopped replying to them. I should take that up again next week with the rest of the more specific answers on specific issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u124	Madam Minister, we have now had a state of affairs, but I have the impression that the reports requested are still a little behind. I wonder which direction we are going in. We have specifically raised a number of issues because we want to know which direction it is heading. I am thinking, for example, of measures to protect purchasing power. How will the whole story be financed if one wants to reduce or even keep federal extra costs at the same level? It has always been suggested to take out the offshore, but then the question arises as to what measures it will be financed with. That is what the passus in the resolution is about. We should be able to switch in the very short term so that we know what this is about. I understand that you want to deal with a number of issues properly. I have no objection to that in itself, but it should not be a story that we will continue to roll out in front of us until 2025.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u125	I couldn't agree more. That's not my intention either. It is absolutely my intention to move forward in the short term, but I am sometimes a little on my guard. This is closely monitored. Sometimes I'm a little wary of creating false expectations when our thinking path hasn't landed enough. Expectations can be exploited. In the meantime, we all know what the consequences may be. I want to be able to fix things, too. That we cannot wait until 2025, for which I am your first partner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u126	Okay, we'll see what's coming for us in the next few days. The report on the cost price will be a first touchstone. It is very difficult to propose measures if we do not have a good estimate of cost. I expect you to do your utmost to get it done in the very short term, so that we can take that hurdle, but it must be absolutely clear how the proposals that will be on the table should be financed in the coming months. You or your colleagues will no doubt remember that there was a lot of discussion about the CRM law, because that was then a law that did not include funding. We must ensure that we do not soon organise an auction which we still do not know how it will be financed. Through the tariffs, yes, but if the commitment is there to make sure that everything is under control in a different way, as far as the price is concerned, and that the federal extra costs are falling, then we have to get that on the table before we can take another step, so that we don't ride in thin air.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u127	Madam Minister, as regards Elijah's report, you yourself said that a number of reactions had to come from, among other things, the CREG and the AD Energy. As a Member of Parliament, I thought that this would end up in the global exercise with the Suivi Committee. We urged Mr Dewael to do so before Christmas 2020. I don't have any more separate questions. Mr Warmoes is now bringing this up. That is his right of initiative, but I thought this would continue in the global exercise of the CRM treatment in this committee. So now we're actually going through some sort of prelude of the follow-up committee. However, I am very pleased with your answers on the resolution-related aspects. I'm a realist. I am a West-Flemish pragmatist and I realise that on 1 July 2020, when you made the resolution, together with Mr Wollants, you were both, as it were, in a sort of opposition role. Then it was Mrs. Marghem who observed the egards. I fully understand that it is easy to put the date of 31 December 2020 first. I never believed that that date would be met because you did not take over Mrs Marghem's job until 1 October. In that sense, I can understand that you are going to work very carefully on that share of the federal contribution and on the whole issue of the cost picture of the CRM. I therefore call on all my fellow Members here to show the necessary intellectual honesty. That may sound a bit strange coming from a member of the opposition, but I have always been intellectually honest in that. On the other hand, it must of course be clear before the auction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u128	Minister, I will analyze your answer. In a simple sentence, I would say that this is all that separates the wishes that are expressed as parliamentarians – above all, in the opposition – and the reality of a dossier. We will follow him with great vigilance. Count on me to come very regularly to participate in this exchange between Parliament and the government in the follow-up to this issue, with a view to the greatest transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u129	Mr Warmoes, we will end this meeting with your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u130	Madam President, Madam Minister, I asked three questions, and you answered the second well. That's effective a little later. I understand that we will have the results of that cost calculation for the first auction. I am satisfied with that part of your answer. The third question concerned the financing of the CRM. You haven't said much about that. From this I conclude that this is still being studied by the government. I'll have a little patience for that. Then I had a question about the consultation. You are aware of that yourself, because you have said that there is a difference between delivering a report and consulting the Chamber. It's not the same thing. That is probably a shared responsibility for one piece.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u131	The resolution does, however, include a special arrangement for 2020. The first reports were submitted in writing. This was written down in this way after consultation of the stakeholders concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic346x.u132	It's not customary for a reply to be interrupted, but okay. It said the Chamber would be consulted. I just want to point out that we, and not just us, have been calling for a hearing with the successor committee of the CRM for some time now. You said at the end of November you had to study it yourself. I am not going to make any further points, let us call that a shared responsibility. However, I do not think it is enough simply to shift it to the Chamber. Furthermore, all the understanding for the fact that you didn't take office until October, but that's part of the job.
