ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u1	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u2	Mr Geens, first of all, Paragraph 3 of Article 3.67 of the new Civil Code on the actual acceptance by the owner of an unclosed immovable property is to be applied restrictively as an exception. Unfinished stands next to unbuilt. In French it says non cultive. This means that the provision applies if the plot is not used in any way. Parcels used in any way for agriculture shall not be entered by hikers. Secondly, set-aside land and horticultural land are land in use, as this constitutes a normal allocation of land under a three-stroke or four-stroke system. These are therefore processed grounds to which Article 3.67, § 3 does not apply and whose entry is therefore not permitted. As far as your third question is concerned, the same applies to mowing fields, grasslands or parcels on which grass is grown for the purpose of burrowing animal feed or hay. That is normal use of land for agriculture or livestock farming. Such grounds therefore do not fall within the scope of Article 3.67, § 3. As far as your fourth question is concerned, Article 3.67, § 3, does not apply to agricultural parcels leased. Legally, such plots are mainly used by the tenant in the farm. A use by a third party would be irreconcilable with the rights of the tenant. As far as your fifth question is concerned, according to Article 3.67, § 3, four conditions must be met in order to be allowed to go on a ground. First of all, the soil must be uncultivated and unprocessed. Secondly, the ground must not be closed. Thirdly, the entry of the land must not cause damage or inconvenience to the owner. Fourthly, the owner has not indicated that it is prohibited for third parties to enter the land without his or her consent. As for your last question, Article 3.67, § 3 of the new Civil Code expressly states that the entry of a land is prohibited in any event if the owner has indicated that it is prohibited for third parties to enter the land without his or her consent. Therefore, even if the first three conditions mentioned above are met, it remains possible to prohibit the entry of a land.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u3	I would like to thank the Minister for his clear and clear answer, which I shall be happy to reread.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u4	Madam President, Minister, I have taken an interest in the latest State Security report. I was attracted by interesting information which, to my knowledge, did not give rise to many comments, and which would merit clarification as to its significance in terms of threat. Thus, on page 27 of this report, we can read that, in addition to the categories of persons that may threaten our security contained in the database of the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM), terrorists of the Islamic State of Syrian or Iraqi nationality who have committed crimes in Syria and Iraq would now be on our territory. It also appears that, among the refugees, there are people who did not commit a crime in Syria or Iraq but who allegedly committed a crime in Belgium. These people do not fall into the five categories of people (terrorists or extremists) considered to be a threat to our country. Minister, could you tell me how many people this is about? According to the report, they are "on radar", a rather general expression of which I do not know the exact meaning. What kind of threat do they pose to our people? Have these persons been charged, knowing that they include individuals who have committed crimes? What is the threat and justice situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u5	Madam President, Mr Dallemagne, the information in question, which has been relayed by the press, is correct. A limited number of recognized asylum-seekers or refugees present in our country are actually charged or even convicted of crimes committed in their country of origin in connection with their membership in a terrorist organization such as the Islamic State, Al-Qaeda or other affiliated organizations. As often in this kind of case, I can talk about A, but not B because the investigations are ongoing. However, I can reassure you that in the area of terrorism, the Prosecutor's Office will leave nothing to chance to conduct the necessary investigations and, if necessary, to prosecute the accused. The current danger that these individuals may represent is closely monitored by our services. If we remain alert to this problem, there is no reason to panic either. The difficulty in this type of case is the collection and collection of evidence of acts committed in war zones. One of the challenges of this type of investigation is to obtain objective elements to open or feed a judicial investigation; indeed, it can be a question of acts committed far from our territory. These include membership of a terrorist organization, provision of military training, participation in armed struggles, participation in bomb attacks and executions. It is not possible to give a precise figure. What I can say is that, among the known cases, some have been convicted abroad, others have been charged for certain acts but have not yet been convicted or are still under investigation by the intelligence services or judicial investigation. The threat emanating from such persons must be determined on an individual basis. No general statement could be made in that regard. As I said, this is closely monitored by our services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u6	Minister, I hear your answer. I wish I had an order of magnitude. You tell us that this is a limited number of people and that they fall into two categories. On the one hand, there are those who committed a crime there. Since they are identified, we still need to know how many people are involved. On the other hand, some of the refugees have committed terrorist crimes, according to what I read, after their arrival in our country. Here too, we should know the number. It's not about panicking, it's about how many people we're talking about. Is the inability to answer this question linked to the secrecy or lack of knowledge of this figure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u7	Mr. Dallemagne, I'll check with the prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u8	Thank you. I will then perhaps ask you again about this, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u9	Thank you for your questions, Mr Metsu. Madam President, I am sure you will not blame me for saying that these are all statistical questions. You have already asked written questions from the same nature, Nos. 509 and 819, and I have always replied in good time. According to Article 123 of the Rules of Procedure, statistical questions, all of which are statistical questions, can be asked in writing. Then I will answer them in writing without hesitation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u10	Mr Metsu, you can certainly submit your question in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u11	If that is more convenient for the Minister, I will turn my oral question into a written question, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u12	It is not a question of better outcome; it is simply a question of respect for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u13	Debates of the European Parliament 55022987C is thus converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u14	Minister, I have listened with great pleasure to the colloquium 'Access to justice'. Something's going on in the dark, as far as the middle class is concerned. Several lawyers and other speakers, listed in my question, report that they see a lot of pro-Deo lawyers in family courts. On the other side of the spectrum there are building files or luxury goods like swimming pools and so on. But it is not clear to them whether the middle class will find their way to court. They proposed to organise a survey on this subject. I think that's a very good idea. What do you think of that proposal? Will you take action in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u15	Mrs Bury, I am pleased to hear that the colloquium is also being picked up by you and colleagues. It was organized by the FPS Justice and was enriching in several ways. Access to justice for vulnerable persons was discussed on the basis of legal assistance and the recent increase in access thresholds. The improvement of access to justice for the most vulnerable was also cited. It set out the idea of setting up multidisciplinary law firms dedicated to legal assistance. It is true, however, that access to justice for the middle class is often ignored. Several proposals were made, including the mutualisation of legal assistance. That is an interesting proposal, but of course we must guard against the undesirable side effects and budgetary consequences. I do not think we can say that nothing has happened in recent years to improve access to justice. With the introduction of legal aid insurance by my predecessor, for a premium of EUR 200 to 300, coupled with a tax reduction, most of the disputes that could arise in the course of life can now be covered. The development of mediation and collaborative law are also important measures taken. Furthermore, recent initiatives by certain courts, such as those of the French-speaking business court in Brussels, which introduced conciliation chambers, should be cited in the model of the family court's friendly settlement chambers. That slope should be further developed in order to ensure that the seeker can find a faster and negotiated solution to his dispute in the presence of a judge-reconciliator. As was also mentioned during the colloquium, digitisation of justice will certainly improve access to justice and the court for the middle class. I am absolutely not opposed to the idea of a questioning. It is indeed important to rely on the heads of the users. That is why we will support this inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u16	Madam President, Minister, you want to give your support. That's not exactly concrete. You're suggesting that there should be some dispatching. Who's gonna make the call? Is it you who does the dispatching? You answer that you want to give your support, but I have not really received an answer to the question whether you will organise the survey yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u17	Madam President, Mrs Bury, we will work with the College of Attorneys General and a number of other interested parties to see how this can be organised.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u18	Minister, that is very good. I recommend that you include the issue of VAT, which should now be charged to lawyers. That means a big difference for the middle class. It might be possible to consider whether a reduction to 6% would not be possible in this respect. That seems to me to be a point which must certainly be taken into account in order to improve access to justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u19	Minister, at the end of November, a member of ISIS, Taha Al-Jumailly, was found guilty of genocide against the Jezidian people, one of the most persecuted minorities on earth. The person was sentenced by a court in Frankfurt to life imprisonment for crimes against humanity, war crimes and trafficking in human beings. The Jezidi community has been crying out for help and justice for years. Hundreds of thousands of Jezidis are languishing in camps for internally displaced individuals and over 2,700 Jezidi women and children are still missing. The pronunciation is an important victory in their ongoing struggle for justice. At last, these crimes are recognised with appropriate punishment, but the search must continue unabated. Justice must be done. Some time ago, together with Mr Dallemagne of CDH and other colleagues, I tabled a motion for a resolution, which was approved by Parliament. In doing so, we acknowledged the genocide against the Jezidis and went a step further. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of this conviction? How do you look at that? How far does the federal prosecutor's office stand with the investigations into these crimes? Have our legal bodies already addressed the question of the Jezidi community to speed up investigations? To what extent does the aid provided by our country facilitate the languishing jezidis and the missing women and children? How are the conversations with your foreign colleagues going?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u20	The federal prosecutor is aware of the conviction of this person in Germany. The federal prosecutor informs me that there are 11 cases in Belgium concerning the possible involvement of Belgian FTFs in committing serious crimes against the international law of the Jezidi community. I refer to my replies at the meeting of the Justice Commission of 29 September 2021 to questions from colleagues Platteau and Safai. As I said at the time, the researchers who assess the FTFs' files on the basis of the criterion of qualification participation in terrorist activities also include the elements that can be qualified as a serious violation of the international law of the Jezidi community. Several research actions have already been completed and others are planned. Of course, given the secret of these investigations, we cannot give further details. I was also informed by my Foreign Affairs colleague that our country contributes flexibly to the humanitarian system in the field of external humanitarian aid through the funds for UN OCHA, the CICR and the Central Emergency Response Fund of the OCHA. Although there are no specific projects for the Jezidis, the organisations are active in the region concerned and in the Jezidis. Belgium contributed €4 million to the humanitarian fund for Iraq in 2020. From that fund, US$ 1.6 million was allocated to the UNFP Iraq for a two-year capacity building programme for women's organisations. The OCHA was given the mandate to ensure the necessary follow-up on women and girls' access to psychological support, health care and life-saving resources and to provide integrated services to victims of sexual and gender-related violence in camps for internally displaced persons and refugees and to the most vulnerable population groups. Belgium also supports two initiatives contributing to the possible return of the Jezidis, namely the project of the Norwegian Refugee Council Conflict Prevention and Promotion of Housing, Ground and Property Rights in Iraq and the Sant'Egidio Project Promoting the stabilisation and coexistence of minorities and religious communities in Iraq'. As regards the contribution to reconstruction, Belgium financed a project between 2018 and 2020, mainly aimed at building schools in areas devastated by Daesh, for an amount of EUR 136,790. The project reaches around 65,000 direct and 392 000 indirect beneficiaries. Belgium, together with other EU Member States, encourages the Iraqi Government to implement the Yazidi Survivors Law quickly and effectively. We note many delays in implementation. Belgium therefore continues to plead with the Iraqi authorities within international bodies for the interests of the Jezidis and the application of the law. We also follow up on the question of the return of the Jezidis who wish to do so to their towns and villages of origin from nearby. Our country, together with other EU Member States, is actively advocating the implementation of the Sinjar agreement by the two governments concerned, namely those of Iraq and those of the Kurdish region. We remain convinced that this is the best way to bring stability to the region and allow the return of the Jezidis who wish to return. However, the situation on the ground remains very complex and precarious. We note that little progress has been made so far, despite the fact that both governments continue to reaffirm their commitment. At international level, Belgium was co-sponsor of Security Council Resolution 2379, which formed the basis for the creation of the United Nations Investigative Team for Accountability of Da'esh (UNITAD) in 2017. That team is competent to collect and preserve evidence of acts committed by Daesh in Iraq that can be classified as crimes against humanity, war crimes or genocide. During its mandate in the Security Council, Belgium has regularly expressed its support for UNITAD and stressed the importance of prosecuting the perpetrators of serious crimes regardless of their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u21	I can only thank the Minister for the comprehensive, clear and encouraging answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u22	Madam President, I would like my two other questions on the agenda to be translated into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u23	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Metsu's 55023176C and 55023177C are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u24	Madam President, Minister, there is a great risk that Lebanon will soon face a complete collapse, mainly as a result of the rampant corruption that affects all strata of the state. I have regularly had the opportunity to make this point with your colleagues in charge of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation. In this context, Lebanese, the first victims of the succession of crises in their country, cannot even count on the protection of the judiciary, the functioning of which is also affected by the consequences of such corruption. On 25 November, three judges resigned in order to denounce the political pressure on important investigations such as the double explosion of the port of Beirut. To date, some 15 appeals have been filed against the judge in charge of the case. This approach also appears to be used in the fight against corruption with the aim of delaying certain procedures targeting politically exposed persons. These instructions sometimes update ramifications in a number of States, particularly European ones, including Belgium, and in this regard it is my responsibility that coordination meetings between the judicial authorities of several nations have recently taken place in The Hague. That brings me to the questions I would like to ask you. Has our country received an invitation to participate in this consultation or even in this judicial cooperation? If so, has there been a positive response and the status of this work? If not, do we intend to offer our assistance and support to countries such as France, Switzerland, or other states in which proceedings are initiated, considering that one of the politically exposed persons, a key person in the existence and perpetuation of this corruption system, has also taken financial positions – real estate in this case – in Belgium and Brussels in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u25	Dear colleague, we have received an invitation and two Belgian magistrates have participated in this consultation with colleagues from France, Spain, Italy, Greece, the Netherlands and Portugal. To the extent that they are authorized to do so in accordance with article 873 of the Judicial Code, the Belgian judicial authorities shall execute requests for assistance from the Lebanese authorities. These requests for mutual legal assistance subject to the secrecy of the investigation are carried out within the limits of Belgian legislation and the bilateral convention governing judicial cooperation between Belgium and Lebanon, i.e. the extradition treaty of 24 December 1953 and its additional convention of 8 March 1968. Belgium is an active participant in the EU-funded Euromed Justice Programme, which aims to promote and strengthen cooperation between EU member countries and southern Mediterranean countries, including Lebanon. Under this programme, the Federal Prosecutor's Office, inter alia, invited a Lebanese delegation to participate in a study visit in February on the international exchange of financial information for the detection and recovery of criminal assets. The organisation of this event, in which CETIF and the OCSC are associated, demonstrates the desire of the Belgian judicial authorities to support and encourage cooperation with Lebanon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u26	I understand that the Belgian judicial authorities have received a request for judicial cooperation. A number of European countries - more important than I thought - joined in working on the issue of corruption in Lebanon. That is the way to go. It is very good to organize study days with the Lebanese authorities, but in many cases these Lebanese authorities are the ones who are doing everything to perpetuate this corrupt system. I hear that things seem to be moving forward and that Belgium is involved. I'm glad. If I may, minister, I will come back to you from time to time to take stock of this important issue. Indeed, from a geopolitical point of view, a collapse of Lebanon could have absolutely dramatic consequences that we would not escape. I think it's clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u27	My question No. 55023155C on the general meeting of co-owners' associations and COVID-19 is without object as a result of the draft submitted and expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u28	Mr Minister, the subject that I am addressing, we have already talked about it at our meetings a few weeks ago, in relation to the tolerances applied by the various prosecutors' offices, and this throughout the country. So I will not go back to the example I had mentioned at that time. These different tolerances generate disturbing elements: on the one hand, a sense of impunity on the one hand and on the other hand, there is the democratic element. It is important to know on what basis, in a particular area of the country, it is decided to apply or interpret the rule in a particular way. In both cases, this is not right! Is there a census of all the tolerances present in the repressive judiciary to date? Has such a census been conducted? It is all the more important to do so because we are on the eve of an important appointment in 2022, namely the reform of the Penal Code. On the basis of the tolerances you would have identified, what are the elements behind them? Do you intend to incorporate into the new Penal Code these famous tolerances and the reasons for them and ensure that this Code is based more on the realities encountered in our beautiful country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u29	My colleague, your question refers to tolerance, which is not a legal concept, but rather an attitude or behaviour. It should not be confused with the principle of propriety of prosecution, which, in accordance with article 28 quater of the Code of Criminal Investigation, constitutes a prerogative of the King's prosecutor, allowing him to file cases without further action within the framework of the criminal policy determined by the College of Attorneys General and the Minister of Justice, in accordance with article 151 of the Constitution. These classifications are carried out on a case-by-case basis for reasons unrelated to tolerance. These may be grounds relating either to the nature of the facts, to the exceedance of the reasonable time limit, to a regularised situation or to reasons related to the author's personality (absence of precedents, disproportionate consequences) or to criminal policy, including priority to civil proceedings. As regards the reasons for this tolerance, I refer to the annual report of the Public Prosecutor's Office which I forwarded to Parliament on 21 September, and in particular to the Committee on Justice. This letter contained not only the annual report, but also the prosecution's research and prosecution priorities. It provides an overview of the issues that the prosecution is addressing as a matter of priority. It is therefore important to know that there is a national criminal policy defined by the Minister with the College of Attorneys General. But each prosecutor's office can conduct its own policy within these margins, depending on local needs, specific security issues and agreements with local mayors under the zonal security plan. However, there is a criminal law branch in criminal law where there is a regular reference to the concept of tolerance, i.e. the road traffic police. These are the margins of tolerance on speed violations, i.e. the directives given by the public prosecutor's offices in order only to verbalise speed excesses beyond a certain threshold. I have already had the opportunity to answer many oral questions on this subject. I come to your first question. As has been said, the College of Attorneys General is responsible for national prosecution policy, and each local policy prosecutor. He or she is monitoring this policy. It is true that there was no comprehensive, centralized view of existing quotas and margins of tolerance in taxiing cases. You know that I want to make a difference and that we are doing so in the interests of road safety. With 644 people killed on our roads in 2019, we will not achieve the goals set. A few weeks ago, the College of Attorneys General and the King's Council of Prosecutors reviewed the survey of existing practices in prosecutors' offices and police areas. The College sought the Council's opinion on the existing quotas and margins of tolerance. The College provided me with this statement but specifically asked me not to share it with the general public, in the interest of road safety. It is only in this interest that I am responding to the College's express request, especially since we are currently working on a uniform policy. The existing margins and quotas will be phased out and systematically phased out. Let me turn to your second and third questions. It is of course essential that the prosecution service of that country pursue a certain criminal policy and, in so doing, subscribe to a more broadly supported policy, for example through the Security Framework Note. It is mainly in this context that your question needs to be answered. Margins of tolerance temporarily retain their raison d'être, as long as the links in the criminal chain, i.e. the police, prosecutors and courts, are not strengthened. That is why we have decided to strengthen this chain and that we are taking the initiative, as you know, to create a new road safety prosecutor's office. Once this strengthening has been put in place, we believe it is important to gradually eliminate these margins of tolerance and quotas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answers. I see that we finally share the same concern. I still come back to this notion of legality which is indispensable for the citizens of the same country. So I understand the differences, the autonomys, the appreciations, but - I repeat - I believe that we must also hear the need for this equal treatment whether we are in the north, south, east or west of the country. This seems to me to be a key element of social cohesion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u31	Mrs. Kattrin Jadin is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u32	Madam President, Minister, we learned a few days ago – this notion of "a few days" is important – that the country's second detention home, the first in Wallonia, will be located in Verviers. On this principle, this is good news. Firstly, because this type of infrastructure has already proved its usefulness in other countries, for example on the side of the Scandinavian States or the Netherlands, in order to reduce recidivism. Secondly, because this tool will contribute to the maintenance of Verviers' justice pole function. Your press release announced the old house of rest of the "Châtelet", on the nearby town of Dison, a few hundred meters away, as the first choice for the reception of this structure. However, it seems that there has been confusion and that this is the site of "La Providence", a former nursing home on Foxhalles Street, which is being held. This building is now occupied by the Red Cross, which houses flood victims in July. I do not hide from you that the location has aroused a very important emotion in the neighborhood and, more generally, in the city. Social networks are agitating a lot. Many meetings of residents or citizens have been held. I would point out that the building that is chosen is in the immediate vicinity of a basic school with about 400 students. The proposed building is adjacent to the school. The concerns expressed by the management of the establishment and by the parents are understandable because in addition to being contiguous, this building (with 52 windows) overlooks the playground. Minister, do you confirm the location option? Why was the site of the "Châtelet" first mentioned in your communication? Could you clarify how you envisage the integration of this project into the life of the neighbourhood, particularly in relation to the neighbouring school with, I would remind you, 52 windows and 2 doors that directly overlook the playground? What will be the profile of the inmates? What assurances can you provide parents with regard to accommodation and safety? Is there any agreement with management?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u33	Madam Chair, Minister, my question is with Mr. Ben Achour, who reminded you of the context of the decision taken and announced on December 6. Like my colleague, I must point out from the outset that we are in no way questioning the very principle of a detention facility, given its positive impact on the reintegration of detainees. What raises the question is the site that has been chosen, since it corresponds to the old building of the rest house of "La Providence", whose several windows and doors directly overlook the playground of the nursery and primary school of "La Providence". This location therefore obviously worries the school, but also the reception centre for victims of domestic violence, located on the other side of the street. The mayor of Verviers said that the lack of consideration of this aspect was the result of a lack of attention in the validation of the choice of the building and that it would first be useful to objectify the situation, then to examine the avenues of solution with the school in question and the Régie des Bâtiments. As a result, Minister, what will be the profile of the fifty inmates who will be transferred to this detention facility, by definition, for short sentences (up to three years)? Will a sorting of the categories of infringements be carried out in advance? Do you confirm that 50 windows and 2 doors directly overlook the playground? Will these openings be accessible to inmates? Have you ever developed a plan for the work to be done? I also remember that you met with the authorities of the city of Verviers last Thursday. What came out of it? What is the status of the discussions on the development of this detention home, which implies the disappearance of any visual link between it and the school? What flexibility will be available to residents, parents' and neighbourhood associations, as well as the management of the institutions concerned if the acts are signed on 27 December? What initiatives have you taken to reassure them about their safety? How did you assess the impact of the facility on the neighbourhood and school in question? Finally, I understand that the opening is planned, at best, for next summer, for the following reasons: as Mr Ben Achour has explained: the building is currently available to flood victims, the purchase of the building is not yet concluded or the planning permits for the works have not yet been introduced. Therefore, could you tell us how you intend to articulate these different steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, as a result of the debates we have had in committee, my colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments and I myself are very actively looking for suitable sites to open several detention centres, as also requested by the members of the Justice Committee, with a view to the development of small-scale detention projects. As I said, the choice of a site is not that simple. In this context, an old nursing home in Verviers has been studied and validated. I confirm that the Foxhalles Street site is targeted. If the name of the site of the "Châtelet" was quoted, it was by mistake because of the fact that we did not know the name of the house of rest that was previously located on this place. The file is now in the final phase. It is still a little early to give you a precise opening schedule, on the one hand, because the building is still occupied by a few people affected during the floods this summer and, on the other hand, because work is to be planned within the building. But I am confident that the building will be ready by the summer of 2022. I would like to point out that the geographical location of the building will also allow for the reception of convicted persons from the German-speaking Community, which is excellent news. Some windows of the building in question actually overlook the courtyard of a primary school, but I would like to remind you of some elements. First of all, this type of place of detention will not accommodate prisoners convicted in the context of acts of morality. Secondly, the aim will be to accommodate persons sentenced to short sentences with a clear orientation for reintegration. In fact, convicted persons will be regularly absent from their chambers, either to continue their work or training in progress, or to carry out reintegration procedures. You have to perceive a detention home differently from a prison. From the outside, the detention home will look more like a student-friendly home than a conventional prison. I would add that, unlike student kots, these detention centres will be supervised, as in prisons, by FPS Justice staff and that a 24-hour presence will be provided by these staff. For the residents, there will be no noise nuisances. The building will remain very discreet in relation to the neighbourhood. With regard to the windows overlooking the school, it was clearly pointed out that, during the development work, care would be taken to minimize possible nuisances, in particular through the installation of offices in the rooms overlooking the school, or by putting in place material solutions, e.g. through non-transparent windows. In any event, and although I would like once again to stress that the convicts concerned do not pose any danger to children, I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that I will be attentive to this element in future work. Together with the mayor of the city of Verviers, a meeting was held on Thursday 16 December to present the dossier to the organizing power of the school. Both the FPS Justice and the Régie des Bâtiments officials were present and were able to explain the philosophy of the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u35	Minister, thank you very much for these answers. I must tell you frankly that we have gone wrong on this issue, because, in the absence of agreement, there has not even been any information. The school was warned, or informed, by the press, one fine morning. However, understand what it is that, for the school officials and for the residents, to discover in the newspaper that the building next to yours will accommodate a house of detention, whose operation is finally very little known, since it is a new concept in Belgium. All of this has given rise to a great deal of emotion and concern. I did not say that in my question, but the detention centre is also in the immediate vicinity of a shelter for victims of domestic violence. Imagine a victim crossing his executioner, one going to the house of detention, the other to the home of domestic violence! All this is very problematic. In addition, the entrance to the detention facility is almost contiguous to the entrance to the school itself. I have the impression that this project, if it is good in its principles, has not been properly reflected in its implementation and location. A petition is circulating; it has already collected a thousand signatures. People are very worried. I heard yesterday that the acts were to be signed on 27 December. Is there still room to back down and carry out this consultation that has never taken place? What are the margins available? Minister, I invite you to lift your foot, take a break in this project and put it back on track properly. Today, there is a form of emotion that turns into anger and if we continue to move forward, the feeling of the population may degenerate and it will not be good for the project. I invite you to reconsider as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answers. The purpose of our questions was not to question the plans of detention centres in relation to their objective of limiting recidivism. I fully understand the logic of installing a detention home in a city centre rather than in the periphery, since there is a goal for inmates to be able to maintain contact with their loved ones but also to be able to look for work. What is being asked here is the location that has been chosen and the lack of consultation. In addition, some detainees are said to have an electronic bracelet and could therefore leave the detention centre in the morning and return in the evening. The concern of the principal of the school, who fears for the neighbourhood and the reputation of her school, is legitimate, as is the concern of the parents of students, who today express themselves through a petition. With regard to the profile of the detainees, you are trying to reassure us that they will be sentenced for short sentences and not for acts of morality. I want to say "still happy"! This is in no way a guarantee that there is no danger. These penalties could also concern serious acts of domestic violence, for example against children. For example, persons could be sentenced for possession of child pornography, since the Penal Code provides for a prison term of between one month and one year. Let us imagine a conviction for premeditated beatings resulting in illness or incapacity for work: these acts are punishable by imprisonment from six months to three years. Those sentences could very well concern detainees who would end up in that detention facility. Moreover, regardless of the profile of the detainees, their mere presence in the vicinity of a school is not adequate, as it could frighten the children, even in the presence of any arrangements you have mentioned. Indeed, the concerns of the parents, of the management, will affect the children. We know that these are sponges that absorb the emotions of the adults around them. You're telling us that there will be some adjustments. You have not been able to reassure us with regard to the Centre for the Reception of Victims of Domestic Violence, on the contrary with regard to the Court of Recreation. So, like my colleague, I must insist with you that there be genuine consultation, so that you do not act in haste. You did it for Courtrai's detention home. I think it must be the same for Verviers, especially since you are telling us that there is no precise timetable for doing so today. This shows that there is still room for manoeuvre in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u37	I refer to the text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the temporary ban on housekeeping in certain arrondissements of Limburg and Antwerp is still being used too little in contrast to the parquets of Limburg and Antwerp. That's weird. I was already particularly affected by an interview in De Standaard with the local parquet magistraat responsible for intra-family violence a few weeks ago. The prosecution informs me that for the following reasons it is not applied equally well everywhere. Firstly, the police overlook the possibility of a temporary restraining order, mainly in cases where no criminal offences are detected. In many cases, a temporary ban is no longer appropriate at the time when the public prosecutor becomes aware of the situation. Secondly, certain public prosecutors are more likely to resort to other measures, which are considered more effective, such as pre-trial detention or detention. It is indeed important to raise awareness among all actors, police and public prosecutors, including in the context of their training, of the possibilities offered by a temporary ban on housekeeping, even if there is no crime. The law relating to a temporary house ban was amended in 2019. As a result, at the beginning of 2020, the College approved a circular amending the previous circular and giving a number of instructions to the prosecutors implementing that measure and the new provisions. The message is clear: make more use of the temporary ban. The College therefore asks the prosecutors to apply the temporary ban more systematically and more strictly to perpetrators of intra-family violence. We also want to encourage better risk assessment. The circular on the use of a risk assessment tool adopted by the College entered into force on 1 January 2021 and should be completed by the police. The main objective of the instrument is to highlight the presence of certain particularly alarming risk factors, allowing for a rapid and adequate response from the magistrate, such as the imposition of a temporary house ban. At the end of November, the government adopted a federal action plan to combat gender-related and intra-family violence. The plan also encourages the public prosecutors to take advantage of the temporary ban on housekeeping. The reference magistrates with specific experience in the field already share in practice their experience with the arrondissements requesting them. The IGO judicial training institute organises training courses on sexual intra-family violence, in which the theme is discussed. The training courses were introduced by the Law of 31 July 2020 and are mandatory to be followed by the magistrates. Newly appointed magistrates are also given training to deal with the temporary ban on housekeeping. In cooperation with the Communities, a monitoring of a number of persons who have been banned from home due to intra-family violence will be carried out in order to identify all necessary support resources. As far as your second question is concerned, I will give you my answer in writing, since it concerns statistical questions. Between 2016 and 2020, we note a significant increase in the number of cases of temporary house bans. This certainly has to do with the initiatives that are and are being taken. As far as your fourth question is concerned, the temporary ban on housekeeping is being imposed to defuse an escalating situation. In addition, the link is made to a quick start-up of assistance. For example, a human approach is provided, whereby victims can stay in their familiar environment and be helped. Moreover, in a crisis situation, the direct involvement of aid workers can make it easier for people to motivate to accept aid. More specifically, immediately after the prohibition has been imposed, the King's Attorney will immediately communicate his decision to the courthouse. This will be given a mandate for the drop-outs and the task of using the Victim's Homecare Service to inform and refer the stayers. The appointed judicial assistant will make contact with the removals and with the remaining residents. The judicial assistant will analyse the situation and make recommendations on the progress of the ban in a report. In many cases, the judicial assistant will immediately make proposals to refer the person concerned to appropriate assistance and services or guidance. This could include an OCMW, a team of intra-family violence from the CAW or addiction care. The aim is to provide an integral range of family assistance and follow-up services. The chain approach, such as the Family Justice Centers and similar initiatives in Wallonia, plays a major role in the multidisciplinary approach to the dossiers. The core of the chain approach is to offer victims a better coordinated service, as in the context of temporary home ban, with the aim of stopping violence, preventing further escalation and repetition and strengthening protective factors in the family. This can only be encouraged and is strongly supported by the Justice Department. We are counting on the Communities to do their utmost to pay extra attention and resources to this. In addition, there are many specific measures and projects to assist and monitor victims of partner violence. For example, there is a mobile stalking alarm which is gradually rolled out nationally following a positive pilot project in Ghent. There is the College's circular on criminal policy on partner violence. It was modified twice, with the latest adjustment dating from 12 October 2015. The circular reiterates the importance of a multidisciplinary approach by both the judicial and the medical and psychosocial actors. Finally, the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Women's Rights has taken a number of measures related to the covid pandemic and the common desire to provide a concrete and rapid response to the problems of women who are victims of violence. Particular attention will be paid to the functioning of justice houses and to supporting their domestic violence tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed and very interesting answer. I did indeed ask my question in an interview in De Standaard, in which a magistrate, someone with knowledge, makes some interesting suggestions. That's what I wanted to question you about. Training through the IGA is, of course, essential, but I also believe that good practice should be exchanged. For a starting magistrate the theory may be known, but the practice is something else. The exchange of experiences and networks will therefore certainly be a major added value. I therefore welcome your confirmation that this is already happening in practice. I am aware, however, that it is difficult to collect the figures requested within the time frame of an answer to an oral question; I would like to read that if it is delivered to me in writing. According to your first impression, the figures are certainly rising between 2016 and 2020. It is important to be able to establish from the figures that the instrument of the temporary house ban is increasingly being used in practice. In this way we can also see which arrondissements, in relation to others, are lagging behind. It is an ideal tool to deal specifically with intra-family violence. So I will certainly continue to analyse the figures thoroughly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u40	Madam President, Minister, about 10 days ago I read in the newspaper: "Justice is finally going to measure its backwardness'. When reading that head I did frown the eyebrows anyway. To date this has not been possible, because of a mess of criteria and definitions. The problem of legal delay is not new. We have talked about this several times in this legislature. It is a problem that has existed for decades. In 2008 there was a lot to do about this, the Verhofstadt government was then "alleged" to have given birth to a monster with the law against the delay in justice. Then a newspaper said: "If you are involved in a lawsuit, you must wait even longer at most courts and courts of appeal. In some courts the deadlines have even doubled." Minister, over the years little or nothing has changed. I have pointed this out several times. However, I am surprised that it is now said that measuring is not possible. In the written preparation of this interplay, I refer to the report of the Supreme Court of Justice in the Bakelmans case, which gives a very detailed overview of the duration of the criminal proceedings currently pending before the courts of appeal. It is about an overview for the period 2015-2018. However, according to your statements, there are no reliable figures available. Minister, you have quite rightly declared your desire to clarify the backlog of Lady Justitia. The cooperation protocol with the College of the courts and courts agreed to improve statistics. As from 1 January 2022, you want to start with a zero measurement, as I understand it, of the extent of the delay, based on a uniform definition. From then on, the evolution of the backlog will be monitored. Mr Minister, I would like to return to your first statement of policy, the one of 2020, in which you say that you want to tackle and resolve the problem of the delay in justice. But that approach presupposes that you have reliable figures, if you want to do so on the substance. I think that is a little inconsistent with what you have recently announced. I assume that initiatives have already been taken to deal with the legal backlog. Hence my questions, Minister. With your approval, Madam President, I refer to my written questions. I will not read them all but I assume they will be included in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u41	Mr Minister, I have indeed tabled a question on the same subject. I'm looking at this zero measurement, the method and why they chose to launch it during the corona crisis. I also refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u42	Madam President, Mrs Dillen, I will try to answer your questions so fully and I will come back to specific questions. In the cooperation agreement concluded by the College of Courts and Courts and myself last summer in the context of the refinancing of justice, we expressly agreed on our question that the College would draw up a zero measurement of the extent of the backlog throughout the organisation. It is up to the College to define the parameters and collect the necessary data. With regard to your specific questions, the College answers me as follows. We are currently in the stage of preparation. So it is not yet possible to answer the many detailed questions. Several parameters are currently being examined according to the College. In addition, indicators are targeted such as average lead time, the size of pending cases, whether or not combined with the average outflow. It is also considered whether the delay should not be examined by law rather than by court, because the average lead times within a court may vary considerably by type of case. Finally, a final methodology will soon be submitted to the College for validation. Over the past decades, there have been different definitions or indicators to measure the backlog. For example, in 2001, the legislator still used the fixation period as a standard, which is no longer relevant as a result of an amended procedural rule. In the 2016 report on the courts of appeal, the Supreme Court of Justice looked at the ratio between output and input, the number of pending cases and the rotation time of pending cases. According to the European Court of Human Rights, delay is the treatment of a case which has not taken place within a reasonable period of time, taking into account the complexity of the case, the behaviour of the claimant, the behaviour of the national authorities and the interest of the claimant. The European Court therefore has a global lead time. In the past, the operational reports have also used neither clear definitions nor uniform measurements to determine the legal delay. All this makes it difficult to compare cross-sectionally. The College has therefore been asked to formulate uniform definitions. Of course, this does not exclude several indicators. Indeed, delays can be viewed as a problem of slow lead time, but also as a problem of stock of pending cases. This College is working on that now. After the zero measurement it will be examined which follow-up will be given. Then the priority of the exercise will also be agreed. No frequency has yet been determined, but the aim of measuring the delay is to link monitoring to this. The question of backwardness deserves all the attention. It was therefore decided to identify the delays of the entire organisation, despite the difficult working conditions in this corona crisis. In addition to the uniform definitions, it also concerns the use of uniform counting and recording rules for the maintenance of lead times in pending cases. Different parameters will therefore be examined. With regard to your second and third questions, Mrs Dillen, the backlog that has been built up until 31 December 2021 will not have disappeared from the zero measurement that will be organised in 2022. The delay will therefore be taken into account until 31 December 2021. As I said earlier, I note that in the past different definitions and criteria of backwardness were used and therefore there was no clear understanding. This does not rule out the fact that every ad hoc measurement did give an idea of the possible delay in certain courts. However, it is difficult to compare the different measurements. For example, the number of cases pending has often been mentioned, but it is not because a case is pending that it is lagging behind. The same applies to lead times. When parties ask for a long conclusion period, which means that they themselves extend the lead time, this does not mean that the courts are lagging behind. A good definition is therefore necessary. The figures referred to in the Bakelmans report on the lead times in the courts of appeal. These are reliable figures, but the lead time is the time between bringing a case and the final decision of the court. Figures of lead times cannot be equated with figures of legal disadvantage, but it is true that long lead times are, of course, an indicator of legal disadvantage. Mrs Dillen, I understand that your sixth question is prompted by the concern that Justice still does not have a precise view of the legal backlog in 2021, but you will certainly agree with me that we are not going to sit down in the meantime and that we are taking targeted measures. I do not need to have precise figures to conclude that there is a legal delay, when a date of treatment is only set three years after a file is submitted to the court or court. That's obvious. I have also said in policy papers that I want to deal with this delay, because justice delayed is justice denied. What efforts do we make? We want to use more people and resources for the magistrate. These are 1,400 additional people for Justice this year and next year, the most important part of which is the magistrate and the staff, but the additional recruitment of magistrates and supporting staff alone will not change things enough. Justice needs to get smarter, too. We are going to do that by digitizing and by other work processes. I am looking, for example, at the implementation of the parquet of Limburg and SAMEN in Antwerp. There is also the OMS system, which stands for immediate friendly settlement. A public prosecutor guarding his front door is a crucial fact to avoid later delays in courts and courts. With the extra budget and the additional recruitments, we certainly focus on avoiding and eliminating the biggest backlog, particularly in the Brussels appeal court. I also refer to the rich debates we have had in the context of the policy paper and its discussion. At that time we agreed that additional recruitment alone would not suffice. All actors must assume their responsibilities in this respect. As far as Mr Dillen's seventh question is concerned, the existing measurements are mainly about pending cases and lead times. These measurements still need to be refined. Especially around pending cases are not all registrations uniform yet. The previous measurements of backwardness in the past were often ad hoc measurements. In many cases, these were caused by a specific problem, either in the court concerned or in the case of that particular type of court. With the definition of backwardness and zero measurement, the aim is for the first time to achieve a global and transversal exercise. Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, the College will take into account the corona crisis in the preparation and exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. Of course, I agree with you that the delay deserves a great deal of attention. It is not because a case is pending that this also means that there is a delay. Much depends on different factors, first and foremost on the attitude of the parties themselves. You have already said it, but this may be emphasized. In some cases there are far too many and far too long deadlines for conclusion, which means that the matter is postponed, consciously or unconsciously, I leave that in the middle. What worries me is that zero measurement should start on 1 January 2022. We're now December 20, 2021, so that's in ten days. There are still some holidays in between. The College is still in preparation. Several parameters still need to be investigated. The average lead time depends on the nature of the case. It is quite logical that the complexity should be taken into account. But, if I understand correctly, we still have to lay down the criteria, even though they have been working on them since the summer months. There is now a need for uniform definitions. So I would have liked to have an answer to the question whether the College will be done with this, so that this can actually start on 1 January 2022. I also have a motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u44	There are still many questions about the criteria and the working method. Those discussions on which working method should be used have been conducted in every intention to start a workload measurement. Hopefully we will get out of the stage of discussion on which working method and definition should be used to measure the workload. The zero measurement is set to start on 1 January. Today is December 20th. There are still many gaps to be filled, at a time when we will be working much slower, starting next week. The zero measurement will start on January 1, in full corona time. It is logical that in these times we have a little more time lag than in normal times. Afterwards it can be removed a little faster, when everyone can work on a normal working rhythm again. So there are still some questions about timing. We are following it further and hope that progress will finally be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u45	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Marijke Dillen and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - whereas the problem of the delay in justice has been a problem for many years and has already been announced by the then Prime Minister during the 1999-2003 administration that it would be finally resolved; - whereas since then, however, the problem has only escalated rather than been tackled and resolved; - whereas in principle the content of the Justice Policy Declaration in December 2020 meant that all the problems facing the Justice Department over the last 20 years would be resolved in this legislature, all the more so as a separate reference was made to the (size of the) legal backlog; - having regard to the fact that the causes of the delay in justice are rooted in all kinds of factors, including the lack of clerks, magistrates, professional equipment, digital progress,...; - whereas the Minister of Justice now appears to be suddenly changing methodology and, unlike previous (policy) statements and analyses, a zero measurement would be carried out from 1 January 2022 in order to identify the legal backlog; - whereas a change in methodology should not result in a decades-long problem rather than a solution being put back on track; asks the government an immediate, well-thought-out and functioning overall plan, both in the short, medium and long term, addressing and finally eliminating the causes of the delay in justice, and thus ipso facto the delay in justice itself." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Marijke Dillen and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, - Considering that the problem of the backlog has arisen for years and that its final resolution had already been announced under the 1999-2003 legislature by the then Prime Minister; - Whereas, since then, the problem has only worsened rather than been taken by arm and solved; - Considering that the contents of the political orientation paper presented by the Minister of Justice in December 2020 announced that all the problems that have been faced by Justice over the last 20 years would be resolved under the current legislature, and in this regard referring in particular to the problem of (the extent of) the backlog of cases; - Whereas the causes of the backlog arise from a number of factors, including the shortage of registry staff, the lack of professional equipment and the lack of digital progress; - Considering that the Minister of Justice seems to change the method suddenly and would, contrary to what had been announced in previous analyses and policy statements, zero from 1 January 2022 in order to map the backlog; - Whereas a change in method cannot have the effect of repelling a problem which has arisen for decades rather than solving it; asks the government to draw up an immediate, thoughtful and effective comprehensive plan, both in the short, medium and long term, addressing the causes of the backlog and, consequently, the backlog itself in order to eliminate it definitively." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u46	Mr Minister, the final report of the expert panel on cross-border adoption, published on 2 September, revealed a great deal of malpractice. It also contains 20 recommendations to avoid such malpractices. Recommendations 16, 17, 18 and 19 should be considered at federal level. I read recommendation 16: "The expert panel recommends extending the possibilities for recovery in criminal law and ensuring effective enforcement of law." The possibilities for recovery in criminal law, civil liability law and personal and family law are actually too limited and not sufficiently focused on the needs of the victims. The expert panel is also not aware of any case law applying the penal provisions relating to adoption. Recommendation 17 reads: "The Expert Panel recommends that the revision of adoption and other alternatives be developed more concretely and in a more balanced way as a means of recovery." Recommendation 18 reads: "The Expert Panel recommends that adoptions from the past should at least be subject to an exceptional possibility of regularisation whereby identification data such as the name, place of birth and date can be easily adjusted." The revision of the adoption is intended as a correction mechanism in the event of serious problems in the event of the sale, kidnapping, or trafficking of minors, without which the child would not have been adopted at all. The expert panel has no knowledge of such a review. According to the Panel, the review procedure has also been incompletely developed. Nor are the consequences of a review for the families, the adopted and the adoptive parents determined. Recommendation 19 is in line with the questions I have tabled, in particular, firstly, whether you will consider with the Flemish Government how a recovery law can be drawn up at federal level. I also urge that Belgian actors be held responsible for malpractice. The establishment of a protocol is necessary so that actors can be effectively prosecuted. With an extension of the limitation period, past malpractices can also be prosecuted. Will you also introduce remedial measures through civil liability law and will you extend the limitation period for that purpose? Will you complete the review procedure and provide for a possibility of regularisation, whereby identification data such as the name, place and date of birth can be easily adjusted?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u47	Colleague, I have taken note of the expert panel's report on cross-border adoption. I am, of course, aware of the situation. The federal government is not the only one competent in the field of adoption. In Belgium, adoption is both a federal matter and a community matter. The Federal Central Authority and the Central Authorities of the three Communities have distinguished and defined powers. The cooperation agreement concluded between the various competent authorities established the Commission for Consultation and Follow-up on Adoption. Your questions, which concern each of the competent authorities, will therefore be discussed at the next meeting of the Commission for Consultation and Monitoring on Adoption. The demand for a recovery act and remedial measures is therefore not currently being addressed. Consultations must first be held in the aforementioned committee. As far as criminal law is concerned, I would like to refer to the answer to the written parliamentary question No. 761. As can be seen from COL1/2015 and COL13/2018, the public prosecutor, in particular the magistrate responsible for trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings, paid a great deal of attention to the phenomenon of illegal adoption. Illegal adoption can be a form of trafficking in human beings if the purpose is to exploit the person. The adoption or attempted adoption with a deceptive intent in breach of the legal provisions and acting as an intermediary may be criminally prosecuted as trafficking in human beings or assistance in illegal entry, residence or the illegal transit of foreign nationals. It is true that Articles 391quater and 391quinquies are hardly used. These are not aimed at the authorities legally responsible for adoptions in Belgium, but only at the candidates and non-approved intermediaries. The legislator has not provided for a specific sanction for the official authorities or for the approved adoption services, since it is the legal bodies which are responsible for the adoption arrangements established by the Communities. The legislator did not consider that these persons would wipe the floor with the legal provision, as it is their core business to respect them in principle. Finally, it would seem a priori appropriate to extend the time limit for the provisions of Articles 391quater and 391quinquies. However, since such facts are linked to false identity and false documents still being used at the time of the investigation, it is possible to rely on the ongoing crime of falsehood and use of false documents to prevent limitation periods. The extension of the limitation period therefore makes little sense in practice. The issue will also be discussed further in the Consultation and Follow-up Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u48	Minister, you say that the matter will be discussed by the Commission of Consultations and Follow-up. That is understandable, because there are different actors at the table, and that needs to be looked at together. You also say that the drafting of a protocol or the drafting of a recovery law is not the issue. That's kind of short notice. Of course, there is a need to discuss the content, but you do not want to discuss such texts until they have been discussed, while the report makes clear recommendations on the content. That is why I will table a motion on this subject, asking the federal government to draw up a recovery bill, to draw up a protocol and to extend the limitation periods.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u49	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Katleen Bury and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - whereas on 2 September 2012 the final report on cross-border adoption was published with 20 recommendations to avoid malpractice; - whereas a number of recommendations should be considered at federal level. In particular: Recommendation 16: The Expert Panel recommends extending the possibilities for recovery in criminal law and ensuring effective enforcement of the law. Recommendation 17: The Expert Panel recommends that the review of adoption and other alternatives be more concrete and balanced as a means of recovery. Recommendation 18: The Expert Panel recommends that adoptions from the past should at least be subject to an exceptional possibility of regularisation whereby identification data such as the name, place of birth and date can be easily adjusted. Recommendation 19: The Expert Panel urges the Flemish Government to put the previous recovery measures on the agenda and to submit them to the Consultation and Follow-up Committee, as provided for in the Cooperation Agreement of 12 December 2005, so that a recovery law can be adopted by the federal legislator as soon as possible. - whereas the possibilities for recovery provided for by criminal law, civil liability law and personal and family law - such as the revision of the adoption or the improvement or modification of civil status documents - are too limited and do not adequately address the needs of theadoptists. There is no known case-law applying the penal provisions relating to adoption (Article 391quater and 391quinquies Sw.); - Whereas, for past adoptions, provision should be made for an exceptional possibility of regularisation whereby identification data can be easily adapted; - whereas the possibility of revising adoption - as a correction mechanism where there have been serious problems in the development of adoption - has never occurred in Belgium and has also been incompletely developed; asks the government - to enter into early consultations with the Flemish Government so that a recovery law can be drawn up at federal level (cf. Recommendation 19); - to ensure that Belgian actors can be held responsible for malpractice by actors in the country of origin when the malpractices are attributable to the Belgian actors and to draw up a protocol so that the prosecution of these actors can be effectively applied within the existing criminal law framework; - extend the limitation period so that past malpractice can be prosecuted; - introduce remedial measures through civil liability law and extend the limitation period; - complete the review procedure and provide for a possibility of regularisation whereby identification data such as the name, place of birth and date of birth can be easily adjusted.' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Katleen Bury and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, Whereas the final report on intercountry adoption has been published and contains 20 recommendations aimed at avoiding abusive practices; - Whereas a series of recommendations should be considered at the federal level and in particular: Recommendation 16: The panel of experts recommends that the possibilities for redress in criminal law be expanded and that effective compliance with the law be ensured. Recommendation 17: The panel of experts recommends a more concrete and balanced elaboration of the revision of the adoption as well as the possibilities for redress. Recommendation 18: The panel of experts recommends that adoptions carried out in the past should at least have an exceptional possibility of regularisation providing for a simple procedure for adjusting the name, place and date of birth. Recommendation 19: The panel of experts insists that the Flemish Government should include in its agenda the above-mentioned reparation measures and submit them to the Conciliation and Monitoring Commission, as provided for in the Cooperation Agreement of 12 December 2005, so that a law on reparation can be adopted quickly by the federal legislature. - Whereas the possibilities for redress provided for in criminal law, civil liability law and personal and family law, such as the revision of adoption or the improvement or modification of civil status acts, are too limited and insufficiently adapted to the needs of the adopters. A case law applying the penal provisions on adoption (article 391quater and 391quinquies of the Criminal Code) is not known; - Whereas, for adoptions carried out in the past, provision should be made for an exceptional possibility of regularisation allowing a simple adjustment of the identification data; - Whereas the possibility of revision of adoption – as a mechanism for correction in the event of serious problems arising at the time of adoption – has not yet taken place in Belgium and is moreover insufficiently developed; asks the government - to intervene quickly in consultation with the Flemish Government so that a law on reparation can be drafted quickly at the federal level (cf. Recommendation No. 19); - to ensure that Belgian actors can be held criminally responsible for abusive practices in the countries of origin where such abusive practices are attributable to Belgian actors, and to draw up a protocol for the prosecution of such actors within the existing criminal framework; - extend the limitation periods so that past abusive practices can be prosecuted; - introduce remedial measures through civil liability law and extend the limitation periods here too; - to elaborate in its entirety the revision procedure and to provide for a possibility of regularisation allowing the simple adaptation of identification data such as name, place and date of birth." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u50	Minister, a few days ago you signed an extradition treaty and an agreement on mutual legal assistance with the United Arab Emirates. This treaty will have to help you to get some key figures out of the Sky ECC investigation that appears to be hiding in the United Arab Emirates. Federal Attorney Van Leeuw, who was also present, stated that this is an indispensable asset to combat transnational crime that benefits from the negative aspects of globalisation. These are legitimate objectives, and I wish you every success in doing so. Hopefully, however, we cannot believe the headlines of the following day. A journalist who specializes in tracking all these drug files immediately said that this is going to be a little late and that the big men are no longer in Dubai, but in Turkey. That's a clear warning not to be too quick to crow victory. I hope you're working on that, too. I would also like to refer to the questions I have put to you in writing. However, I have an additional question, namely whether contacts have been established with Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u51	Minister, you recently signed an extradition treaty in the United Arab Emirates, together with the federal prosecutor. That treaty should make it easier for drug criminals to be extradited to our country. That would be a good thing for everyone at first, especially in the context of the Sky dossier. After all, Dubai has been a magnet for a certain category of people who prefer not to get too many questions about how they have built up their capital. The Emirates have not always worked well on extradition in the past either, but they have recently extradited a number of criminals, even without an extradition treaty. That raises a number of questions. Apparently, they began to realize that it wasn't the free port they thought was going to be. As a result, a number of drug criminals have since left Dubai for Turkey, when they found that they were not completely inviolable. This makes the signature a good story in itself, but it could unfortunately be less effective than expected. I fear that the terrain will be shifted. To what extent will the new treaty make things smoother than before? Is it true that in the meantime you have also heard or know that some of the criminals involved, who are on your wish list or on that of the parquet, are no longer staying in Dubai, but have been moved to Turkey in the meantime? Finally, is extradition agreements with other countries being pursued? Apparently, they are now a better and safer port for drug criminals. If so, which countries are concerned? Does this happen on the basis of the information obtained from the Sky investigation or on the basis of other information?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the new Convention on Extradition and Legal Assistance with the United Arab Emirates aims to speed up and improve cooperation in criminal matters between Belgium and that country. Other European states have already preceded us. I refer to Spain, France and the Netherlands. There are several reasons for the negotiations and the signing of the two treaties. In general, crime under the influence of globalisation is becoming more and more transnational. Criminality is becoming less and less at the national borders. In order to combat organised crime effectively, it is therefore necessary to adapt and have comprehensive and well-functioning international cooperation in criminal matters. Moreover, good cooperation with the Emirates appears to be crucial, mainly that criminals actively flee into organised crime to that country in order to escape our justice system. In the case of financial crimes, the proceeds are placed or invested in the Emirates. The EncroChat and Sky ECC operations are two operations in which organised crime has links with persons residing in the Emirates, demonstrating the importance of the Convention on Legal Assistance. The bilateral extradition treaty provides more certainty for cooperation with the Emirates in general. The Convention therefore benefits both the handling of those important files and the handling of other criminal files relating to the Emirates. To your second question, I can answer that because of the secrecy of the current investigation, no specific information can be provided. More generally, however, I can make a few points. Firstly, there are those who we want extradited, either because they have already been convicted in our country, or because there is an ongoing investigation and the investigating judge has sufficient evidence of guilt to issue an arrest warrant. Secondly, it is usually people who have made large sums of money using cocaine scam and who deliberately try to avoid the Belgian justice system. In fact, in some cases we have evidence that they are continuing their criminal activities from the Emirates. Furthermore, we also have credible indications that it concerns people involved in the blind violence in Antwerp. Trying to keep wanted criminals out of the clutches of police and justice is an open door. However, it is our job not to allow them to do so and to try to take them and bring them to justice. That's what we do, wherever they're hiding. I can add that the 1957 European Convention on Extradition applies to Turkey. Mr Dillen, in reply to your third question, the legal aid agreement with the Emirates is necessary, since cooperation between the Emirates and Belgium on mutual legal assistance has been difficult, in that Belgian requests for legal aid have often remained ineffective. In particular, Belgian requests for legal aid were answered regularly with requests for additional information. The same information was regularly requested in those requests. They were mainly related to the completion of formalities. The additional requests were previously considered as a disguised refusal by the Emirates. The Convention on Legal Assistance finally provides us with more guarantees of fruitful cooperation. Under the Convention, both parties undertake to provide each other with the greatest possible legal assistance. It regulates the mutual legal assistance procedure and provides for specific forms of legal assistance aimed inter alia at combating money laundering and organised crime. For example, there are explicit provisions relating to the identification of proceeds and legal and instrumentalities of crime and to the search, freezing and seizure of documents and materials for the purpose of obtaining evidence. The Treaty provides for a number of grounds for refusal. Legal aid may be refused where it is incompatible with fundamental rights in national law, where it relates to political crimes, where the prosecution is motivated by a discriminatory motive, where the application relates to a crime punishable by the death penalty and where the application would affect the sovereignty, security, public policy or the essential interests of one of the parties. Mr De Wit, the new extradition treaty with the Emirates improves the current extradition procedure, as it significantly extends the possibility of extradition between Belgium and the Emirates. The Belgian extradition law does not allow extradition from Belgium without a constitutional basis. That is why we can only offer reciprocity in limited cases. Therefore, in the absence of a bilateral extradition treaty, before the conclusion of the Convention, Belgium could only extradite defendants or convicted persons who were in Belgium to the Emirates for specific crimes, for which there was an international treaty providing for this extradition. For example, these agreements are concluded within the framework of the United Nations to combat corruption, drug trafficking, terrorist financing and organised crime. However, such a treaty basis is not required under Belgian law so that Belgium can request extradition from the Emirates. However, the Emirates have the established practice of demanding a declaration of reciprocity for each extradition. In the absence of a bilateral extradition treaty, Belgium could give this declaration only for the above-mentioned offences which have a constitutional basis. Both actively and passively, only extraditions were provided for in an international treaty. Now that there is a bilateral extradition treaty, both parties have a duty to extradite all crimes that comply with the requirements of the Convention. In addition to extending the possibility of extradition, the extradition procedure for the bilateral convention is regulated in detail. The establishment of an extradition procedure, with the imposition of time limits, will speed up the handling of extradition. For example, provision is made for the possibility of requesting extradition in exceptional cases and exceptional circumstances through any means capable of producing a written document, provided that this is confirmed by a formal request for extradition through diplomatic channels within 60 days. Once the formal request has been sent, the Convention provides for the possibility of direct communication between central authorities. In addition, in exceptional circumstances, the arrest may be requested before an extradition request has been lodged, with the formal request for extradition to be followed within 40 days of the date of arrest. The Convention also includes a simplified extradition procedure if the person concerned agrees to the extradition. In short, the detailed elaboration of extradition procedures, including deadlines, will lead to faster handling. Mrs De Wit, as regards your third question, an extradition treaty is currently under negotiation with India. The modernisation of the existing Convention is also under way with Thailand. This is not done on the basis of information obtained from the Sky ECC study.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. With this treaty, you hope to gain more certainty and a better guarantee of fruitful cooperation with the Emirates. It was not always obvious in the past, as the information shows. When will that treaty come into force? I trust that, like any treaty, it will first have to be ratified by Parliament. When do you wish to come to Parliament with this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is a good thing that this is being developed further. It's just too bad it looks like some of us are going to get away with the dance after all. I think it will be a constant task and mission to act proactively and quickly, including for other countries. I look forward to the approval of this treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u55	Mrs. Wilmès will take over. It will also be dealt with in the Committee on External Relations. I suspect this will happen in the course of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u56	Minister, you say it will happen in the course of next year. As long as that treaty is not ratified, nothing can happen. Perhaps you should urge your colleague to put a rush on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u57	If you have heard the answer correctly, you know that there are other grounds on which we can still proceed to extradition, but they are not so easy to use. It is indeed recommended that urgent action be taken, but the fact that we have already signed this without it being implemented already means a great deal to the authorities in the Emirates. The goodwill generated by the signature was only improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u58	Minister, two weeks ago, in a fast-track journey, it was decided to buy two more large office buildings in the Brussels Noordwijk. The two buildings are intended for the security of the State and the Crisis Centre. The government buys them for 280 million euros and another 90 million euros needs to be invested. What struck me was that Secretary of State Michel apologized to Secretary of State De Bleeker and "has been put under pressure" by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior. That raises a number of questions. How can this huge amount of money be accounted for in times of crisis and shortages? Why was the decision-making period so extremely short? How do you respond to the State Secretary's statements that you put pressure on him" in this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u59	The coalition agreement expressly provides for a strengthening of the State's security. We are fully engaged in this and will almost double the number of employees in the State Security between today and horizon 2024. In this way, this government will also answer the decades-long question of strengthening that service, as was also asked by the parliamentary committee of inquiry. The recruitment of staff also means that better housing needs to be provided. This additional staff cannot possibly be housed in the old building, a housing dating back to the last century and whose rental contract also expires. In any case, therefore, we must decide on new housing for this legislature. Secondly, the Government of the Buildings basically follows the new line to buy rather than rent. In this way one can acquire assets in a well-located location, and as owner one also enjoys the added value that is realized in the long term. So this was a search for a good and large building in the centre of Brussels, located near a railway station. With regard to the exact price calculation of this building, please refer to the Secretary of State. However, I can assure you that both the Government of the Buildings and the Security of the State have been working on this dossier for a long time than a few weeks. Only the said building could be retained from the prospection. In view of the tender period and also the high demand for the building, the purchase could no longer be delayed. The share of the State's security in the purchase of the building is EUR 216.5 million, of which EUR 37,590,000 VAT. This amount therefore flows back to the Treasury, which ultimately means that the purchase amount for the Regie amounts to EUR 179 million. You're also asking me how I respond to the Secretary of State's ruling. Well, my services and myself are working well with the Buildings Regie. It is a common dossier. I do not think there is any question of pressure, because the decision was taken in the nuclear cabinet. This was discussed in several meetings of the nuclear cabinet. The question and the initiative for this and the other dossier have just come at the initiative of the State Secretary responsible for the Government of the Buildings. I was, of course, present at these various meetings, so I also saw the enthusiasm with which the Secretary of State defended the dossiers. I found that all government partners finally agreed to that decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u60	Mr Secretary of State, it is strange that the Secretary of State makes such statements. It is rather naive to think that no pressure can be exerted because it has been discussed in several meetings of the nuclear cabinet. The Secretary of State states that he was pressured and pushed. You say that the lease expires this legislature and that a purchase must be made. I agree that a purchase is better than a rental. Especially when there is an opportunity, the recruitment of real estate should be considered. The purchase amount is EUR 216.5 million, of which EUR 179 million is left without VAT, but still needs to be invested in the establishment. I doubt there's a lot of candidate buyers in line who can put that amount down. It's a huge amount of money. It was now or never, you say, because the decision had to be made in these few weeks. You also say that the lease for the housing of the State's Security expires, but it is not clear to me when that will expire, within a month, or only within a year or two years. What was so urgent? I'm not getting any answers. We only have the Secretary of State's statements and they make us frown the eyebrows. You deny that and say that he was very proud of that project, but something doesn't add up when he said such things. So I'm stuck with those questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u61	Minister, I refer to the written preparation of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u62	It is an important question, which is why I am also giving you a full answer, including the technical elements, in the interests of the victims. The Commission for Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Violence and Occasional Saviors does not ensure full compensation for victims in accordance with the Act of 1 August 1985. The law of 1 August provides for financial assistance based on solidarity between the members of the same nation and not on civil liability. The best proof of this is that financial assistance is limited to EUR 125,000, while compensation is unlimited, because the damage must be repaired in full in accordance with the principles of civil liability. The terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 were recognised as acts of terror by a royal decree passed by the Council of Ministers in implementation of the law of 1 August 1985. That KB was published in the Belgian Official Journal and the deadlines for submitting an application for assistance expired on 18 March 2020, as the publication took place on 17 March 2017. The date of 26 July 2021 shall be the end date of the submission of a request for financial assistance for the victims of the street attack on 29 May 2018 in Liège. The relevant KB was published on 25 July 2018. Since the terrorist attack is a deliberate act of violence, the victims of such an attack can always submit a request for financial assistance in the ordinary system, which provides for up to 3 years from the date on which a final decision has been taken on the criminal proceedings, in accordance with Article 31 of the Act of 1 August 1985. The only difference is that victims who have applied after 18 March 2020 will no longer be able to rely on the preferred regime established by the laws of 15 January and 3 February 2019. Those victims must have been bourgeois. All victims of the attacks on 22 March who had not submitted their applications before 18 March will still be able to rely on financial assistance in accordance with the 1985 Law, provided that they meet the other legal requirements. The Law of 18 July 2017 on the establishment of the Statute of National Solidarity does not set a time limit for the submission of an application for the relevant Staff Regulations. Contrary to this, the claims must be submitted to insurance companies within a specified period of time. The secretariat of the Financial Aid Commission has already responded to several victims. The various victim support services such as CAWs and victim associations are aware of this. I also make funds available for victim coaches, as envisaged by a recognised victim association. Those coaches have been recruited and are currently being trained. We will leave nothing to chance for the course of the process. The victims will be at the heart of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which reassures me somewhat. My question is prompted by the newspaper report that one of the victims came to the conclusion just outside the deadline that the application should already be made. You may have read that article, too. However, you are happy to confirm that under normal rules, i.e. within the three-year period and provided that the legal requirements are met, the rights will be retained. The only difference is that the preference system cannot be used in a manner of speaking. The victims won't stay in the cold anyway. At least that's reassuring. I assume that they will also be able to rely on the support of the victim coaches, because I believe that their deployment is not subject to deadlines. [[Applause from the left]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u64	Madam President, Minister, when presenting the federal road safety plan, you announced, among other things, that there would be an automatic withdrawal of the driving licence for offenders who stubbornly refused to pay their fine. Today there is also the possibility of withdrawal, but it is not automated and there is still a need for judicial intervention. In your view, is a judicial intervention for a far-reaching measure such as the withdrawal of a driving licence not added value? What if someone's license is automatically withdrawn, while there is a valid reason why the fine was not paid? Has there been any agreement within the government on this? If not, what is the state of play of this announced measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u65	Madam President, Mrs De Wit, it is first and foremost important to note that this legislation has been adopted during the previous legislature and has been in force since 1 July 2017. It is not therefore a question of new legislation, but of its implementation. It concerns the issuing of an KB which will include the formalities for filing and withdrawing a driving licence. I assume that the question does not concern the withdrawal or suspension of the right to drive, as provided for in Article 65/1 of the Road Police Act. That Article provides for a sui generis procedure for the suspension of the right to send in the event of non-collection of the amount of the payment order for the tax authorities. The law provides for a judicial intervention instructing the King's Attorney to order the suspension of the right to send. The preparatory work shall distinguish between the lapse and the suspension, the lapse being a penalty imposed by a court, and a suspension shall be ordered by the public prosecutor. This is a logical consequence of the fact that the system of payment orders has to relieve the courts, and that the whole procedure will be handled at the level of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the FPS Finance. The suspension is the last means of pressure. The suspension periods are laid down in the same Article 65 and vary from eight days to one month depending on the seriousness of the infringement. If the offender pays the amount of the payment order for the suspension of the right to send, the suspension shall not be carried out. The practical arrangements for the return of the driving licence have yet to be laid down in the Royal Decree, as mentioned above. The person whose driving licence has been suspended shall not take another driving test. The interpretation of the powers and discretion of the King's Attorney under this provision is included in the text of the circular COL 04/2013. As for your second question, following a decision to suspend, there is no appeal before the court. However, the suspension of the right to send can only be ordered by the King's Attorney if the tax administration has not been able to recover the payment within three years of receipt of the title declared enforceable by the King's Attorney. However, where a payment order is sent, the addressee of the order shall have 30 days to appeal to the police judge in accordance with Article 65 of the Road Police Act. If the offender can prove that he has not been able to take note of the order for payment within that period, he may still bring an action within 15 days of the date on which he became aware of the order for payment or of the first act of recovery of the amount by the FPS Finance. The person concerned will therefore be given the opportunity to challenge the order for payment before the court before the King's Attorney if necessary order a suspension of the right to send.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The only thing I am wondering is whether there may not be a problem if the order for payment has not been received and it has not been possible to oppose it, which means that the suspension will subsequently be dealt with. I will look at it further, but thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u67	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 55023439C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u68	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u69	You will understand that it is not obvious for a Minister of Justice to decide on matters relating to the trial during an ongoing legal procedure. After all, it cannot be the intention for the parties concerned to use elements of the answer from the parliamentary question in their file. Caution should therefore be exercised. I can tell you that an appeal against the judgment was filed, because we do not agree with the judgment legally. It is precisely because of that legal appeal procedure that I confine myself in my policy paper to the functions that are not the subject of it. As a result, I did not make any statements on the management positions of the judicial staff. This does not, of course, detract from the appreciation and appreciation we have for the holders of mandates, but also for all the principal officers, the chief secretaries and the executives, who work every day to ensure that our secretaries and our parquet secretariats function properly. Indeed, they often do so in difficult circumstances. Especially during the pandemic, that's not easy. It is therefore at least so important that we improve the situation on the ground. I can assure you that we will carry out the task in a correct way and in accordance with the spirit of the law of 10 April 2014. As I said at the committee meeting of 15 October 2021, a draft Royal Decree was drawn up for the performance of the task weighting. The draft is still at the stage where several opinions are requested and has therefore not yet been submitted to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u70	Thank you for your answers, Minister. We'll follow up on the file. After all, it is very important for the staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u71	Madam President, Minister, I am referring here to an act of 13 July 2013 in which we tried to shorten the time limits for settling family disputes. This reform came into force in 2014 and has made it possible to simplify the process for litigants. Of course, beyond a theoretical reorganization, implementation has had to meet the needs of the field, i.e. magistrates, registry staff and clerks. In this regard, the situation of the Brussels Court of First Instance, and specifically its Family and Youth Court, remains extremely problematic. Indeed, since its establishment, of the twenty chambers that had been planned, only eighteen were actually effective. In addition, it was recently reported that two of them had been closed and that the files had simply been decomposed and not reassigned. As far as pleadings are concerned, the wait would be one year, which is very long, especially since this is a matter of cases involving children and families. This is what is referred to as the law of persons. But behind this right people often hide tragedies and rather tearing situations. A year can therefore be an eternity for some. At the same time, while the reform was also intended to promote the consensual resolution of situations by creating amicable chambers of settlement for each family court, it seems that these chambers are in fact almost non-existent. Some professionals point out the great difficulty of the work, but also the workload of all the staff and judges, obviously burdened by the shortage, if I may say so, of magistrates. Indeed, in Brussels, the French-speaking court of first instance has a deficit of around 20% of judges compared to the executive. The mechanism for the absence of judges also raises questions. There are problems with the vacancy information process. It would appear, last but not least, that when a judge of the court is delegated to the Court of Appeal, the law does not currently allow for his replacement. The same would apply when a magistrate is unable to work because of illness, even if it is for a long or unlimited period. Indeed, only the replacement by a judge already in office within the same court allows for a replacement, which is rather punctual. Minister, I therefore have a few questions for you. I have questions that you will certainly be able to answer now and others that you will not be able to answer. But I'll make you feel comfortable right away. If so, I will send them to you again in writing. What has been the evolution of the organizational framework of magistrates for the last ten years? What is the evolution of the number of cases to be dealt with annually for the past 10 years, in detail since the reform of the Family Court? How many family and youth courts are in fact composed of one or two amicable chambers of settlement? What is the procedure for publishing vacancies for magistrates? In concrete terms, what department is responsible for this procedure? Are you in favour of amending the legal provisions that would allow for the replacement of judges delegated to the Court of Appeal and the replacement of judges who are unable to work because of illness? Are you willing to put it in place? I now turn to the questions you may not have an immediate answer to. What is the average length of employment and career of the administrative staff of the registries – I am not talking about the clerks here, but about the staff – specifically for the Brussels court, a French-speaking party? What is the organizational framework of the court's registry staff and its evolution over the past decade? What is the organic framework of the clerks? How many amicable claims are submitted each year? How many amicable settlement procedures have been carried out since the installation of the ad hoc chambers, in detail for the French-speaking court in Brussels? Finally, what is the average time between the vacancy of a judge's post and the publication of the offer of that vacancy, as well as between publication and actual occupation by a new magistrate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u72	Madam President, Mr Pivin, I will indeed answer some of your questions. The other questions ask for numerical answers which can be transmitted to you through a written question which I invite you to address. It should be noted that it is the different heads of the courts and tribunals and the public prosecutor's office who transmit to their respective colleges the different staffing needs that their jurisdiction requires. The colleges of the head office and the public prosecutor's office are responsible for allocating the various staff requirements requested by the courts and submit cards to the Minister of Justice, who decides in consultation with the college on the number of places to be published. It is therefore important to emphasize the central role of the colleges of the headquarters and the Public Prosecutor's Office, which have a cross-sectional view of the needs of the different courts in the country and can thus provide a precise assessment of the various personnel requirements of each of the prosecutors'offices in the courts of the country, within the limits of the legal frameworks. With regard to your question about the replacement of the judges who are delegated or unavailable, you are in fact raising the issue of the frameworks currently provided for by law. The law provides that a magistrate of the court of first instance or a magistrate who is unavailability on account of illness shall continue to be part of the court of first instance. It seems complicated that this is not the case in the system we are familiar with, since, on the contrary, it would mean that, upon the return of the judges who are delegated or temporarily unavailable, an imbalance would be created between the different courts. More broadly, therefore, it is the whole issue of managers and their possible removal that we are analysing, particularly with the support of the colleges. The legal framework for the clerks of the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels is set at 125 clerks, 8 clerks-chiefs of service and 1 clerk-in-chief. As regards the period between the publication of a vacant post and the appointment of the new magistrate, the duration is approximately six months. The Supreme Council of Justice must first obtain a series of opinions from the judicial authorities (building companies, heads of bodies and others), then proceed to the hearing of candidates for the vacant posts and, as a result, present the winners. The King signs the decree of appointment within three months of the nomination of the candidate by the Supreme Council of Justice. For advisors, the deadline is about eight months. Additional notice is required from the general meeting of the court where the appointment is to take place. For example, eight places for judges at the Brussels Court of First Instance were published on 17 December. If the places are filled, the new magistrates are expected to take office in the early summer of 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u73	Minister, thank you for the information you provide. It is obviously difficult to make a comment without having an overview, and therefore without having the written text of your answers to my various questions. But the fact is there. We are facing a catastrophic situation. I am not the one who emphasises this, it is the chairman of the Committee on Family Law. He knows the situation on the ground. Here we reach the limits of the rule of law. This situation needs to be addressed quickly, with the necessary resources. I will still check whether legal initiatives can be taken to improve and strengthen the operationality of these justice services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u74	Madam President, Minister, on 8 December last year, for the first time in six years, Fedasil was forced to refuse to accept certain unaccompanied minors because the Fedasil network is in short supply. Also, it is no less than fifteen MENA who were not welcomed by Fedasil that day and who were simply left on the street. The Secretary of State, Sammy Mahdi, recalls, via a communiqué, that "the Tutelle Service must urgently do what is expected of it: to carry out age tests" and calls for an acceleration of age tests. Minister, have the fifteen MENA who have not been received by Fedasil since then been identified by the Tutelle Service? Have they been declared missing? What country do these minors come from? How old are they? What solution is recommended by the Tutelle Service which organizes the urgent accommodation of MENA? In 2020, 3,424 new young people were registered by the Tutelle Service and 2,262 of these young people were between the ages of 16 and 18. What is the current situation in the Tutelle Service? What is the time to process the tests, since you say they need to be speeded up? What are the difficulties encountered in carrying them out quickly? What urgent actions can be taken to speed up the process? Bone tests are particularly contested and questioned, particularly with regard to reliability. What other mechanisms could you consider in order to be more secure about this situation, which, I would remind you, in case of doubt about age, should benefit the minor?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u75	Mr President, Minister, on 14 December, when I tabled this question, the occupancy rate in the second phase of the MENA reception was at a high of 99.72%, which does not allow all MENA in the first phase (the observation phase) to be oriented towards a collective reception structure, as Mr Rigot illustrated. Your colleague at the Asylum and Migration said on Twitter on 8 December that he had asked Fedasil to take care of the reception of all the MENA that could not be welcomed, thus via the adult reception network. Minister, if the reception of asylum seekers does not fall within your competence, this is the case with the Tutelle Service, about which I had asked you at length in the context of your general policy note, since he is responsible for the age tests in the centres of orientation and observation (COO), which make it possible to identify which MENA are actually minors or not. The Secretary of State Mahdi said that if the results of the age tests were delayed, adult asylum seekers would take the place of minors. So these are my questions which are partly related to those of my colleague. What is the average waiting time for the result of an age test? Have you taken steps to speed up the process in order to have these results available more quickly? What methods are used? Is the bone test systematically performed? In your policy note, you mentioned working with the Secretary of State to assess and, if necessary, adjust age determination procedures. By whom will this evaluation be conducted? What are the different options today on the table? Is the objective of this evaluation to abandon bone tests over time? It is known that in the United Kingdom or Australia a holistic assessment has been preferred, which includes oral interviewing, physical evaluation of puberty and growth, but also cognitive, behavioural and emotional evaluations. Can you ensure that all the MENA identified in the referral centres are effectively supervised? Finally, has the current situation been addressed in the framework of the inter-ministerial conference on Migration and Integration? If so, with what results? Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I will answer Mr Rigot's first question. On Wednesday, 8 December, Fedasil informed the Tutelle Service that perhaps some fifteen young people could not finally be welcomed. It turns out that nine young people did not receive a reception in the Fedasil network that day. Caritas reported to the Tutelle Service, which was subsequently informed that eight of them would be taken over by the citizen platform, and one in its own network. At the youth profile, there were seven Afghans, one Cameroonian and one Ivorian between the ages of 15 and 17. Two of them were already known to the Tutelle Service and had already been identified as over 18 by May 2021. On Friday, December 10, 2021, they were registered at Petit-Château and were welcomed. There has been a doubt about the age of five young people and the verification procedure is ongoing. Since the reception falls within the competence of Fedasil and the Communities, the Tutelle Service did not intervene at this level. With regard to your second question, in 2021, the Tutelle Service recorded 4,312 reports and 2,560 reported being between 16 and 18 years of age. With regard to your third question and Ms. Rohonyi's first, the Tutelle Service has taken several steps to increase the number of tests performed and to reduce the time taken to process the files. These measures include the recruitment of new drivers, the increase in the number of places available for age tests at hospitals and collaboration with the UCL-Namur CHU. The average time between the alert and the final decision is approximately 22 working days for 2021. It is known that, in exceptional cases, this may take longer because the minor is in a remote location where it is more difficult to organize a short-term test. Given the large influx of MENA, we continue to seek solutions with all partners to be able to organize even more age tests. However, I would like to point out that in 2021 we already organised more than 50% more age tests than in the previous year. With regard to Mr Rigot's fourth question and Mrs Rohonyi's second, the law states that the Tutelle Service is obliged to carry out a medical test when the authorities competent for asylum, access to the territory, residence and expulsion cast doubt on the minority of a person claiming to be MENA. This method is therefore an integral part of the age determination process led by the Tutelle Service. The purpose of the medical examination is to determine whether a person is over 18 years of age and thus to be able to appoint a guardian. The medical test requested by the Tutelle Service is scientifically substantiated. The medical age test now combines an X-ray of the wrist, clavicle and teeth. That's what we call the triple test. It uses standard deviations of up to two and a half years. It therefore combines several X-rays in order to assess age as accurately as possible. These examinations are carried out simultaneously to increase the accuracy of the diagnosis and to identify possible developmental disorders. The lower limit of error is always used to determine whether a person is over or under the age of 18. This method is internationally recognized as the best method currently available. Psycho-affective tests are not able to make these distinctions because they check a person's maturity. This has also been confirmed by the College of Physicians. The method used by the Tutelle Service is considered at the international level as the best method currently available and allows the Tutelle Service to establish reliably whether or not a guardian should be appointed and, where appropriate, the termination of guardianship. In addition to this medical examination, the Tutelle Service uses all other elements at its disposal, such as documents, observation reports made by the centres and, where appropriate, interviews. The Tutelle Service is always positioned in relation to the state of science and evolution in terms of age determination. A study group led by Prof. Patrick Thiels and Dr Yannick De Tommel, recognized experts in their field, are currently analysing the practice according to the evolution of the current state of scientific knowledge, while taking into account the ethical aspects associated with the determination of age. In addition, greater attention will be paid to the standardization of medical reports and the care of young people. The European Asylum Support Office (EASO) has developed a guide incorporating the practices of the different Member States. According to this guide, the United Kingdom uses only non-medical methods based on the assessment of age based on the observation of physical appearance or behaviour. This is a very subjective interpretation. Anglo-Saxon countries are generally opposed in principle to a medico-scientific approach. They rely only on their own practice, the reliability of which has not been proven. The Tutelle Service chose not to rely on the observation of physical appearance because it is subject to arbitrary and imprecise. It was also confirmed by the European Asylum Support Office. The Tutelle Service also chose not to resort to very intrusive methods. With regard to Mrs Rohonyi's third question, the Tutelle Service did not have a sufficient number of guardians to appoint one for each MENA quickly. The reasons for this shortage are diverse, but reside mainly in the large influx of MENA. We have taken several initiatives to increase the number of guardians. At the end of August, the Tutelle Service launched a new campaign to recruit new guardian candidates. Video clips promoting guardianship were broadcast on various social networks and on the Justice website. Three virtual information sessions for guardians were organized. A total of just under 200 participants attended. Selection interviews are held from mid-October to December this year. Currently, 120 people have applied. At the end of December, the Tutelle Service will organize a basic training course for new authorised guardians. They should be operational in early 2022. With regard to your fourth question, Mrs Rohonyi, the first issue raised at the Interministerial Conference on Migration and Integration was indeed that of MENA. That's right. The Presidency of this Conference is the responsibility of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. Personally, I am pleased that priority attention is given to these very vulnerable young people in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u77	I thank the Minister for his reassuring response. I am relieved that the young people we were talking about at the beginning of our questioning with Mrs Rohonyi were able to be identified, taken care of and that nothing dramatic happened with regard to them. Then your answer is clear and detailed. I am pleased to note that steps have been taken to speed up the management of this essential age test, since it conditions the right to reception for one part, but also the continuation of the procedure and the accompaniment which these young people - or these false-MENA adults - will be able to benefit from. It is important to act as quickly as possible. The 22-day deadline may be acceptable, but it remains long. I hear your wish is to shorten it. I hope that you will take steps to achieve this. As far as the study group is concerned, how soon could we receive the conclusions of the study group? A report will be available and presented to Parliament in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic645x.u78	I thank the minister for his answers. First of all, I will take advantage of my reply time to commend the efforts of the citizen platform for refugees, which allows for the reception of MENA when the authorities are failing and, in particular, when it comes to MENA, which, as you have said, are particularly vulnerable. I would also like to commend the government's efforts to speed up the time frame for achieving results and conducting an evaluation of age estimation procedures. This is fundamental because psychosocial testing is not always reliable – a person's maturity does not necessarily reflect his or her age, but rather the experience gained, particularly in relation to his or her migratory journey – and above all because this age will determine the regulation that will be applied to him or her and the protection that will or will not benefit him or her. I am thinking of the legal assistance and representation of the guardian, of access to mutual care, of the right to education or of the asylum procedure which must be adapted to the minor. It's fundamental. In fact, if this age were to be overestimated, minors deserving protection would be de facto deprived of it and, a contrario, if adults saw their age underestimated, they would end up in centres with minors with all the problems that would arise. I am pleased that consultation and reflection have been undertaken on the tests carried out to this end. In reiterating my remarks made during the general policy discussion, I would like to stress the recommendations made in 2017 by the NGO Coordination for the Rights of the Child, which aim at solutions that are less infringing on the rights of minors. I am thinking in particular of alternatives to bone tests. I therefore invite you to read them because of their real interest. Moreover, this organization could very well take place within the advisory board that has been set up for this purpose. Just as you could consult the General Delegate for the Rights of the Child, the Kinderrechtencommissaris, etc. For the rest, I appreciate your follow-up with the Secretary of State at the Interdepartmental Conference. I can only encourage you to continue your efforts in this direction.
