ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u1	Mr President, if you are wondering why we have tabled the same question, that is because Mr Sneppe unfortunately has to carry one of her family for graves today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u2	Mr President, Mr Creyelman, like you, I am also concerned about the problem of rising and unevenly distributed pay supplements. There is no objective explanation for the large differences between regions or between hospitals. The raising of the fee supplements is a decision of the hospital administrators, in consultation with the doctors. According to them, this is necessary because there is a lack of public funding through the Financial Resources Budget and to prevent them from getting into financial difficulties. The hospital managers refer to the MAHA studies, the annual analysis of the financial situation of the general hospitals carried out by Belfius. Hospitals therefore feel obliged to earn income by other means and therefore count on the contributions of the doctors who charge these pay supplements. However, due to a lack of transparency on these payments, it is not possible to assess at macro level how the revenues through pay supplements influence the relationship between doctors and hospital administrators and the financing of hospitals. We do not know what the destination is for hospitals to provide income on the basis of salary supplements. It's all different from hospital to hospital. The increase in pay supplements and their unequal distribution is a worrying trend which we want to put an end to. That is also explicitly stated in the coalition agreement. As you know, therefore, I intend to carry out a reform of the nomenclature and hospital funding, including the problem of pay supplements. The National Medical Funds Agreement 2021, which was approved by the Council of Ministers last Friday, provides that rapid steps will be taken to distinguish, within the fees of all doctors, the medical fee section intended to cover all costs directly or indirectly incurred in the performance of the medical benefits in kind and not covered by other sources, in a transparent and standardised manner from the fee section intended to cover the provision by the physician. Furthermore, the agreement states that the reform cannot be separated from the reform of hospital funding. A number of other things will be considered, such as the legal guarantees to be provided in the field of medical management in hospitals and the legal framework to be created for the determination of the medical fees paid to the hospital manager, and that specifies the eligible costs. I also support, of course, the request of the national committee to provide a path of control for the supplements to be paid in the hospital sector. That control path should cover both supplements and hospital postures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u3	Mr President, if you look at the differences between the maximum average wage supplements, you can only see that this dossier, like so many other things in this country, has a Community touch. So perhaps it is time to review the funding of the hospitals. You also know that it is not always the doctor-specialist who is responsible for the wage supplement. In some cases, without the doctor's agreement, the hospital adds supplements to the doctor's fees, supplements that end up directly in the hospital's cash register, to say disrespectfully. We must therefore be careful not to always point directly to the doctor, and I am still silent about the consequences for patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u4	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last week there was the message from Vias that one in seven young drivers dare to drive around under the influence of nitrous oxide. In my view, that is problematic. It is also a very dangerous drug, which is sold under a very sympathetic name, but which can have irreversible consequences for health. The Committee on Health must therefore follow that up. Mr Minister, are you prepared to take legal initiatives to ban the sale of small capsules? It is true that we in Parliament have already approved a ban on the sale of nitrous oxide to minors. However, it is just the small capsules that can still be a problem. A motorist is basically an adult. So that's what we're going to miss our target a little bit. Are you prepared to take legal initiatives to this end? Do you have an insight into the problem today? Can you underline what Vias has said? There is also a higher incidence of drug-related problems during the covid pandemic. Did you have a meeting with the emergency doctors regarding the incidence of drug problems in the emergency room?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u5	Mr President, Minister, Mr Depoorter has already explained the problem. I have a very specific question. Some time ago, I asked your predecessor if there were any studies on this issue and this issue. She replied to me that a working group would have started to identify the problem in 2018 or 2019. They have now been able to do one or two years of research. Where are they? What are their findings? Are you also aware of the increasing use? After all, we not only see those figures rising in traffic, we see that it is also present at all those corona parties. Unfortunately, the drug used there is nitrous oxide. I'd like to throw it in the group, I've seen young lives lost up close myself, friends of my brother, in a car accident where nitrous capsules were found. We really need to work on this very quickly, because it could get out of hand even more quickly than it already is today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u6	Mr President, it is true that we are getting requests and signals about nitrous oxide through various channels. Especially from police zones my services are getting more and more signs of nuisance from the use of nitrous oxide. They find left behind patterns. It's used and traded as a party drug. At the moment we have limited figures on the recreational use of nitrous oxide. In Flanders, the research carried out by the VAD shows that 3,4 % of nitrous oxide has been used. These are figures from 2018. This contrasts with the figures published by Vias last week. I can't confirm the numbers. I think it's important that we set up proper monitoring. I'll ask Sciensano to set up a trends potter. That's a short study that charts a trend. I have already heard that the VAD will also include it again in the student survey in secondary education and the student survey in higher education. Then I come to the figures from the covid surveys. At the moment we are not receiving any signals or figures that can confirm that there is an increase. I am not saying that to put the problem into perspective; don't get me wrong, because the drama Mrs Farih mentioned, and I am sure Mrs Depoorter has also inspired, is serious enough to think very carefully about it. I do not want to hide behind statistics, but I do think it is important to monitor them properly. The regulations on nitrous oxide are very fragmented and do not provide an answer to the problem. For example, the capsules are used in food. If I am not mistaken, a text in the Committee on Health was adopted in 2020 on banning the sale of small capsules to minors and introducing a warning. The European Commission has commented on this. That can now go further in the parliamentary direction. This point was also included in the Working Party on Food and Additives, in order to review legislation at European level and to ask other Member States about the recreational use of nitrous oxide. Your question was also whether we could also ban this for adults. I cannot give a clear answer to that now, for which I apologise. I need to think about how we can put this issue on the agenda. I am concerned, because this could be a possible new trend. I will ask the General Cell on Drugs to put this on the agenda so that we can work together with the Communities to see how we can deal with this preventively and repressively. I hope you do not think my answer is too non-binding, because I have not really had time to concentrate on this. However, the questions form a wake-up call. We need to decide what policy we are going to conduct, and for this we need to try to get a better picture of the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u7	Minister, your answer was not very concrete, but the most important thing now is to put this item on the agenda. We must not underestimate this problem. When I look around at the squares in our city, I suspect there is a certain nuance between statistics and reality. The 3.4 % mentioned is very little. As far as monitoring and trends are concerned, therefore, I certainly agree with you. As far as the legal initiatives are concerned, we tabled an amendment to the law in 2020 calling for a ban on minors. However, that was voted down. Who then considered a sunset clause, which allowed the industry some time to find an alternative to the use of that gas for food. That is the counter-argument that is often cited: it cannot be banned, because it is still used in the food industry. In the case of CFCs, however, that ban has proved possible and should therefore be possible in principle for nitrous oxide. It is very good that this issue is on the agenda so that we can work on it further. That is the most important point, because we all want to avoid the loss of even more young lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I can join the colleague, because I am pleased that a trend potter is being set up. I am very young myself and if I were to ask in my surroundings who has already experimented with it, that would certainly be more than a handful of people. It's something that happens under the radar, because it's a legal tool that's available everywhere. It's very cheap, by the way. I hope that we can take steps forward, because it is very important not only to get this product out of traffic but also to get it out of the circuit. People need to be aware that it is a dangerous means that can cause long-term health problems and even lead to death in the worst case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u9	If I may speak before the committee, we will certainly have to follow this up, of course in consultation with the Minister. Mrs Farih, I would like to express my condolences on what you have been through.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u10	Minister, six weeks ago I asked you a first question on rubber granulate in the Committee on Health. My second question on this matter was on the agenda two weeks ago, but it did not come up at the time. I added another question before today's sitting. After all, you also suggested that I ask a follow-up question, whatever I have done. In the meantime, I also received your reply on the explanation of vote of the Belgian REACH Committee (BRC), which was issued by ECHA on 20 November 2020. In that statement we read that Belgium is in favour of reducing the concentration limit for packaging in rubber granules and litter for consumers, but Belgium voted against as one of the few Member States, because the ECHA proposals were not considered ambitious enough. Minister, how is the BRC compiled? Is this happening from the federal and regional authorities, or can that body be regarded as completely politically independent? ECHA's proposal is to reduce the packing concentration to 20 milligrams per kilogram. What's the BRC's ambition? Do I understand that the BRC sees another stumbling block in the proposal of ECHA, in particular that the ECHA only talks about the packaging in that part and prefers to deal with the problem of microplastics separately, which means that there is no overall picture of the problem anymore? Can you confirm that the standard of 20 milligrams per kilogram for a new sports area to be built has been applied in Wallonia since 2018, but not in Flanders? What is the next step in the ECHA proposal? Do the Member States still have separate voices or a possibility for debate? I also read in the voting opinion that there is a discussion on the standards to be applied to playgrounds. Could you point that out a little bit more? My other question is about a research published last week by the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, a PhD study by Ewa Skoczynska. The conclusion of this study leaves little to the imagination in the field of health, because there are many more carcinogenic substances in rubber granulate than was originally thought. So far we have always based ourselves on the 16 packs, the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, but now it appears that there are many other substances in the rubber granulate. The scientist has published shocking figures, as more than 46 new substances have been discovered, some of them carcinogenic and others harmful in a different way. Further research is expected to produce further substances. Mr Minister, the standards applied by the Dutch National Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM) and therefore also advises ECHA are leading, but apparently far from sacrificing. Can a similar institution in our country also issue advice to ECHA? Do you also believe that with these new data in our country, the principle of caution is best applied? Finally, is there any possibility that Belgium, as a Member State, could go beyond the rules that Europe already imposes? In other words, could our country apply stricter standards on artificial turfing materials?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u11	The Belgian REACH Committee is composed of members of the administrations appointed by the ministers responsible for the REACH Regulation on the basis of the cooperation agreement for the implementation of REACH in Belgium. The members of the BRC represent the three regions, in particular the administration responsible for the environment, and for the federal government the administrations responsible for health, environment, employment and economy. You asked about the BRC's own ambition regarding packing concentrations. The BRC did not comment on the threshold it wanted to see in the proposal. The draft text for the REACH restriction was not ambitious enough with regard to the use of playgrounds and did not concern consumer private use. In addition, one aspect of the problem that products would also be covered by the REACH restriction for microplastics is that it is an environmental problem and one would evaluate the dossier of microplastics separately, while Belgium had indicated that it would like to see it treated as a whole. In reply to your third question, therefore, it is true that the BRC wanted to have a broader picture, an overall picture, not only of the problem of microplastics, but also of other chemicals present which could be released into the environment or to which users and workers may be exposed when using such areas. After all, it is not an exclusive public health or environmental debate. In the meantime, the opinion on microplastics is also well known and is in favour of imposing EU-wide restrictions in this area. Two alternatives are given to the Commission to offer the current proposal for a vote to the Member States: either a total ban or mandatory risk management measures. It is a politically very sensitive dossier and the discussion on the Belgian position has not yet been conducted. It is a competence of Mr Khattabi because of the focus on the environment, but we would like to say that we too have concerns on this subject, although in the area of public health. During the preparatory work, Belgium had clearly expressed its preference to carry out the various evaluation work in one dossier rather than to divide it, as has now been done. Indeed, this makes it difficult to carry out socio-economic analyses on the various dossiers, as the benefits of regulatory activities are split into different dossiers, even if they are the same use. Then you had questions about the standard applicable in Wallonia and Flanders. It is true that the use of these substances in sports areas is the competence of the Länder. My services have not received any official information on this from the Länder. Nor have we seen any regulations. This would have been included in Wallonia under a subsidy regulation. In Flanders end-of-waste criteria have been added to VLAREM, which wants to limit the release of these substances into the soil. However, there is no limit to the number of milligrams per kilo. You're asking for the further route. The opinion on the dossier of the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) was submitted to the European Commission in 2019. The Member States have taken their position on the dossier. At this stage, the text will be forwarded to the European Council and the European Parliament for a vote in three months' time, allowing them to oppose it on the basis of three very limited criteria. Firstly, the text goes beyond the competence of the European Union or, secondly, the text is not the purpose of the legal instrument or, thirdly, it does not comply with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. As soon as the text is adopted, it will become applicable in the different Member States. You also referred to the voting advice on the standards for playgrounds. The BRC has indeed indicated that the proposed limit value does not seem appropriate for children's playgrounds. When children are accompanied on a sports field or playground, they are usually free. Their behaviour in those situations could lead to wider exposure. It is not yet clear whether the European Commission is working on these findings. My services will follow this closely, as it is of course important to intervene if these playgrounds represent a danger to children. You also had questions about a doctoral study at the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam. Of course we are very interested in all scientific publications in the field of rubber granulate. We take this into account when, in the framework of the mandate of the European Commission, we make a contribution or advice to the European Chemicals Agency. However, there is no evidence yet that there are plans for the European Chemicals Agency to deliver a technical dossier for substances other than packs and microplastics. My services will request the information and deliver it to the other competent Belgian authorities. You ask whether there is a similar institution here to the Netherlands National Institute for Public Health and the Environment, which can also issue opinions. A similar institute does not exist as such in Belgium, but we do have the REACH Scientific Committee, consisting of members of the scientific institutions and universities. It issues opinions on a number of REACH dossiers in support of the BRC. Furthermore, the Risk Management Service of my administration, the Belgian competent authority for the REACH Regulation at European level, involves scientific experts who assess and contribute to technical dossiers of the European Agency, depending on the priorities. My services will request the study and the standards applied, as the scientific report is not publicly accessible. I cannot therefore give my opinion on this. Overall, I agree that the REACH Regulation for the most harmful substances is the legal basis for a strict precautionary approach. The regulation must therefore aim to prevent the exposure of consumers to these substances, especially as regards carcinogens, mutagens or reprotoxic substances. You are asking whether we can go beyond European rules. No, Belgium should not take further measures for substances that have been harmonised under the REACH Regulation. That regulation has a legal basis for the internal market. Although rubber granulates come from recycling waste, in the absence of effective criteria for the management of end or waste at Member State level, which is not European competence, rubber granulates are not a product. So it's still garbage. The REACH restriction therefore does not apply as it is not products. In Belgium, the Länder may impose end-of-waste criteria for those products and thus for the use of recycled material. I refer to the relevant regional ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for the very comprehensive and yet rather enlightening answer, despite the difficult issue. I do learn a lot from it, but I have reservations about the fact that Belgium is not allowed to take further action on substances harmonised under the REACH Regulation. You'll leave a door open. In Belgium, the Länder may impose end-of-waste criteria for those products and the use of recycled material. In the Flemish Parliament, I have already tabled a proposal for a resolution on the subject in spring 2019, but success has not been achieved. The fact that I am being referred back to the regional authorities is therefore not very encouraging. Last Thursday, the Dutch Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State, together with the Minister for Medical Care and Sport, announced that they want to get rid of the artificial turf fields sprinkled with rubber granulate in 2030. This is mainly done there for environmental reasons. That is a first step in the right direction, which I think we can follow. But even more so than the principle of caution in relation to the environment, as the Land Ministers for the Environment do, I opt for decisions based on the principle of caution in relation to health. In addition to the packs, the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam has found no less than 46 new carcinogenic substances in the rubber granulate. For the packs, the standard of 20 milligrams per kilogram is really insufficient. Toxicologists have been advocating for years the use of less than 10 milligrams per kilogram and, ultimately, the cessation of its use. Their children or grandchildren are not allowed to play on them either. So it seems to me to be a very anxious idea that, even if we follow the Dutch example, we will still have a whole generation of children playing on that material over the next ten years and taking a health risk at a later age. The only motto that should apply here is better safe than sorry. Let us study the matter carefully. I am counting on you to do so, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u13	Mr President, Minister, there appears to be an increasing tendency to hack medical records. We see this not only in our country, but also in the United States, Germany, Spain and the Netherlands. A lot of hospitals have already been hacked. It has already happened in our country, and that was the reason for this question. Two weeks ago, a hospital in Tournai was the victim of hacking. That hospital had to be partially closed because the servers were no longer accessible, internal communication was no longer possible, files could no longer be consulted, operations had to be postponed. No ransom would have been demanded so far and there would be no evidence of data being stolen. Help would also be enabled to regain access to the data. Minister, what technical and organisational measures were taken to prevent hacking and its impact? Was this enough? Was sufficient budget provided for such protection measures? What did they learn from previous hackings abroad? What lessons will be drawn now for the future? What was the overall impact on the care of the hospital in Tournai? How do we plan to make up for delayed care? Couldn't this have been avoided through backups? In the meantime, were you ransomed? What is the nature of the data leak? Did personal data and health data become visible to unauthorized persons? Is it possible that data was copied? What role or attention do you see for IT security in the context of eHealth? Will European funds allocated in the context of relance also be used for the digitisation of hospitals and eHealth and for data protection?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u14	Mr President, the CHwapi hospital has become the victim of an attack using a username and password that the hackers could obtain. Because the hacker has been able to pose as an authorised user, technical security measures have regarded the hacker's activity as a regular activity, thus preventing access to the systems. Although the hospital had taken a number of measures to ensure the safety of the systems, this incident teaches us that we should certainly continue to pay additional attention to all vulnerabilities. However, we will never reach a point where we can guarantee 100% safety. However, in the fight against the consequences of ransomware in the coming years, attention will certainly continue to focus on the awareness of users about the risks of phishing, the importance of good access control that provides better protection than just the username and password and protection of the backups, so that it can be quickly restarted after an incident. There are no relevant benchmarks available to clarify this. In the case of this hospital, 19% of the IT budget, without salary costs, is spent directly or indirectly on information security. Although this is a substantial part, there will always be a risk that an institution will be affected by an information security incident. The hackings show that every institution, including a hospital, is vulnerable to cyber incidents. For this reason, a cooperation has been established with the CCB and warnings for cyber threats are distributed among hospitals. The hospitals also have the possibility to register through the CCB at a service which will look up and make available specific threats to hospitals. The hacking in the Netherlands is not repeatable with us. The employees of the contact centres do not have access to the Sciensano database. In the database of the contact center itself, the employees only see the data of the person they need to call: telephone number, name, first name, gender. They don't have access to the entire contact center database. The central database at Sciensano is strictly protected by measures by design. What's the overall impact on the hospital? The attack mainly had an impact on the administrative systems. However, care provision was also affected by the attack and could only be worked in degraded mode. As a result, certain activities such as operations, consultations and medical examinations had to be postponed. The operating quarter has been restarted from January 20th. It is estimated that after five weeks, care will be able to return to full capacity and to catch up with delayed care. The hospital had a protection system in which backups were made on two different systems, providing protection against encryption. Yet this technology has not been able to protect the hospital from the attack. For the future, therefore, we are looking forward to more offline systems that are naturally less vulnerable to this type of attack. Was there a ransom request? No, so far the hospital hasn't exactly been explicitly asked for ransom. However, a message is widely distributed in infected systems, inviting you to contact us via a darknet message system. So far the analysis of possible data leaks is still ongoing. All analyses carried out so far indicate that technical data has been leaked: the list of administrators' accounts, the inventory of the IT infrastructure. For the time being, there is no evidence that material data, readable outside the systems and usable for external dissemination, have been filtered. The SPD itself is not impacted because it is located in a different environment. It is not excluded that data is copied in such incidents. The hospital therefore further investigates the data flows that have taken place. Following the recent incidents, the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment has taken the initiative to explore the extent to which a central supply of security services can take place. For example, the equipment for raising awareness of Phishing staff could give the hospitals a direct advantage. In the framework of the European Relance Plan, a budget for cybersecurity has been requested. We will contact the relevant Cabinets to see if this can also be used for the hospitals. The European Commission will make a selection of the projects we will submit. This is a submitted project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u15	We are indeed very vulnerable to ransomware during this period. We're in a corona crisis, but care cannot be delayed any further. People are very sick. Of course, that makes it very tempting to attack the systems and in return to copy certain things or ask for ransom. This deserves all the attention. A central range of protective software is very important anyway, but good monitoring and regular monitoring of all systems are also important, not only because they are sensitive data, but also because it can have an effective impact on the functioning of a hospital. Operations and consultations may be postponed. More and more equipment also works via a network. That too is a very sensitive point. EHealth is another yard that can and must be dealt with further. I'm sure you'll keep an eye on the relance budget. Two thirds of Belgian hospitals would even have had to deal with a cyber attack during this corona crisis. Hopefully this will be followed up very well and will be punished as soon as a responsible person can be identified.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u16	Mr President, Minister, in Belgium, one in ten women suffers from endometriosis, a disease still unknown and causing various symptoms such as severe pain during menstruation, digestive and urinary disorders or chronic fatigue. Currently, the average time between the onset of the first symptoms and diagnosis is seven years, an extremely long period of time that can cause significant harm to women. Its management requires several medical appointments to make the diagnosis, then to treat one by one the different symptoms, thanks to drugs that, in addition to being binding, are often expensive for the patient. The symptoms of endometriosis cause a real handicap in the daily lives of many women. The French Minister of Health recently announced that the integration of this pathology into the list of long-term conditions was assessed by the departments of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. Mr Minister, in view of the serious consequences of this disease, both health and financial, would it be possible to recognise this gynaecological disease as a long-term condition? Has any thought been given to this? Can people with endometriosis, for example, benefit from the chronic condition status and/or package?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u17	Mr President, Mrs Thémont, in the context of health insurance, diseases are not recognised as such. However, some chronically ill patients may be granted the status of a person with a chronic condition, which, if the condition is serious, is intended to enable them to meet their medical expenses. In preparing the measure, it was envisaged that it would be granted on the basis of a list of conditions. This was not the case because, among other things, recipients with a serious chronic illness who had not yet been diagnosed were not included. This is why the granting of status is not based on the condition to which one is affected, but on the increase in medical expenses. It is usually granted automatically by mutuality. Private insurance has its own list of what they consider to be heavy pathologies in which diabetes, cancer and renal failure are found with dialysis in which they are more involved, but this falls outside the scope of compulsory health insurance. INAMI uses the E list of heavy pathologies. If a person suffers from any of the pathologies on this list and his or her state of health requires an increased need for physiotherapy, physiotherapy or rehabilitation, the doctor-counsel of mutuality may, in this context, grant an increased reimbursement of the care in physiotherapy. These are therefore mainly diseases of the musculoskeletal system, i.e. joints, muscles, etc. The status of heavy pathology also does not mean that all the costs associated with this pathology are reimbursed. However, this status may sometimes open up access to the care premium. This depends on the amount of medical expenses. The chronic care package is an annual intervention for chronic patients who, because of their illness, are highly dependent on others and have high health expenditures. To benefit from this annual procedure, the patient must meet different conditions, namely high health costs and loss of autonomy. The exact disease suffered by the patient is not an award criterion. Patients in need of much care receive, like all recipients of sickness and disability insurance, reimbursement for consultations and examinations carried out as part of the diagnosis and follow-up of any illness. There are also mechanisms to reduce the expenditure of any person facing a long-term, serious and/or particularly costly illness, i.e. the increased intervention, the maximum to be charged and the system of the paying third party. Some mutualities, through their supplementary insurance, are involved in the direct and indirect costs of the disease by granting, for example, a supplementary intervention in the cost of painkillers. All of these bonuses and statuses depend on the individual's income, health care expenses, degree of autonomy, and are intended to make care more accessible. I hope, Mrs Thémont, that this rather general framework explains how we understand the problem that you outlined. I also hope that this information will be useful to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u18	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. I will, however, continue to try to make you aware of the problem. This disease affects one in ten women. In the province of Liège alone, it is now almost 25,000 women who have to deal with the pain caused by this disease. And we know there's no treatment for endometriosis. This disease has symptoms that completely lurk in the professional activity of some women who suffer from it. It is also often the cause of regular work stoppages, which in them causes a mal-être, but also the incomprehension of their colleagues and their hierarchy. Recognizing endometriosis as a chronic disease would improve women's access to health care and contribute to gender equality in the labour market. Finally, in addition to better management of these patients, it would be important to take action to better screen for this disease since, before getting a diagnosis, these women often have to undergo inadequate treatment as well as inappropriate remarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u19	Mr Minister, I have a question about the product fremanezumab, which was subject to a medical emergency programme in the context of migraine. In the UZ Gent, 46 patients would participate in the medical emergency program, but recently the company stopped the program unilaterally. As a result, it was interrupted for certain patients. Are you aware of that? Have you had any contact with the firm about the problem? Has there been a file filed for reimbursement of this drug? Can you give us an update? Will the product be refunded in other European Member States?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u20	The medical emergency programme with AJOVY was initially approved on 20 March 2020 following the positive advice of the Medicines Committee and the Ethics Committee. On 27 August 2020, the company applied for a substantial change to the current programme. Following a positive opinion from the Pharmaceutical Committee and the Ethics Committee, the FAGG approved that application on 27 October 2020. As a result of the amendment tabled, my services have been in contact with the firm. The amendment requested included the following points. It's complicated, but I'll try to read it right. Initially, the approval included the following indication: "profilaxe of migraine in adults who have at least eight monthly migraine days, who have previously failed in at least two preventive treatment classes and cannot be satisfactorily treated with the other approved and commercially available alternative treatments in accordance with clinical guidelines due to efficacy and/or safety problems." So that was what was initially indicated in the approval. The substantial change adopted on 27 October is indeed stricter, since instead of at least two preventive treatment classes that the patient could not adequately treat, three therapies are now proposed. This will therefore be: "profilaxe of migraine in adults, who have at least eight monthly migraine days, who have previously failed in at least three preventive treatment classes" and so on. That's a first change. In addition, the following conditions were added to the programme. If the migraine does not decrease by 50% or more after a period of three months with AJOVY, the patient should stop the medication and be removed from the program. The 50 % response is defined as a reduction of 50 % of monthly migraine days compared to the number of migraine days during the four weeks before the start of the medical emergency programme. Those who can participate in the programme shall be treated for a maximum of nine months. AJOVY should be discontinued for at least three months. Finally, the end of the programme was also brought forward. This was initially scheduled for 30 June 2021, but it was amended until 31 January 2021. The end of the programme is the moment when no new patients can be admitted to the programme. Patients already included at the time of discontinuation should continue to receive the medicinal product free of charge until the medicinal product is commercialised. Where is the file for approval of the refund? At the request of the Committee on Medicinal Products, a negotiation was launched with a view to concluding an agreement under Article 112. The manufacturer indicated on 29 September 2020 that he would like to enter into these negotiations. This means that I will soon be able to inform you of the outcome of these negotiations on reimbursement. Based on the information available in the EURIPID databases, I can reply that AJOVY is recoverable in the following European Member States: Denmark, Finland, Croatia, Austria, Slovenia, Slovakia, Spain and the Czech Republic. Some European Member States, such as Germany and Malta, do not provide data for this database. As far as Germany is concerned, we know through searches on the website of GKV-Spitzenverband that AJOVY is also refundable there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u21	Thank you, Mr. Lester. Your answer is clear. The only thought I have is that we should be sure that the 46 patients in the UZ Ghent, and perhaps in other hospitals, have effectively fallen out of the program because they do not achieve that reduction of the attacks by 50%. According to my information, there is some doubt about that, but I will take it up with the professor in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u22	You will understand that I cannot say anything about that. This is a matter of medical assessment, internally in the program.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u23	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u24	Mr President, Minister, we have already talked about missing medicines and the law that was passed on them. I saw on the FAGG site last week that 28 immunoglobulins are missing. These are used in Kawasaki disease but also in covid patients. They are indicated as being critical. This means that there is no alternative available and can therefore not be found. How do you estimate this problem with regard to the treatment of covid patients and other patients in need? What steps can you take in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Depoter, you know, of course, that immunoglobulins are produced from human plasma and therefore have a limited supply. Besides, they're very expensive. However, the number of indications for which they can be used has increased sharply for a few years. In many cases, these are very serious or even life-threatening diseases. As in many European countries, immunoglobulins in Belgium come from plasma from voluntary donors. This stock must be supplemented by immunoglobulins from internationally collected plasma to meet demand. There have been acute shortages recently. Due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on international plasma collection, additional deficits are expected. In Belgium, a national procurement procedure has been introduced for the fractionation of domestic plasma and the establishment of a national strategic stock. Since then, Belgian hospitals have been obliged to meet 50% of their intravenous immunoglobulin needs through this national tender. There are no deficits at that level. For the remaining 50% of the intravenous immunoglobulins and for 100 % of the subcutaneous immunoglobulins, the hospitals supply themselves individually through so-called commercial tenders with the companies on the Belgian market. With regard to these commercial procurement medicinal products, prices in the other EU countries have recently been substantially increased, which means that the price of immunoglobulins in Belgium is more than 20% lower than the European average. As a result, the risk of export has increased significantly. This is not sustainable in an environment with increased demand and a shortage of supply. I therefore agreed to the price increase requested by the producer and accepted by the CTG for two immunoglobulin products which already hold a very large market share. This price increase will enter into force shortly, bringing us around the European average. In this way, we will at least avoid a further negative impact on supply for these medicines. The competent administrations FAGG and RIZIV will continue to monitor the problem and develop long- and medium-term solutions. As part of a task force, recommendations are also being drawn up on a permanent basis for hospital pharmacists and specialist doctors in hospitals to deal with the consequences of shortages. Based on a survey of the companies placing intravenous immunoglobulins on the market, it has recently been concluded that the 2019 recommendations should be maintained as the stability of the availability of these products cannot be perfectly guaranteed. On 17 November 2020, a new Task Force meeting confirmed the 2019 recommendations. The use should be rationalised, including for subcutaneous immunoglobulins which cannot now be considered an alternative because they themselves are not sufficiently available. Both CSL Behring and Octapharma have already communicated to hospitals that it is not possible to initiate new treatments with subcutaneous immunoglobulins. As a result, patients who would normally be eligible for subcutaneous treatment in a home setting should still be treated with intravenous immunoglobulins, requiring a daily intake. In addition, this is a burden on hospitals, which must be avoided in the current context. Since then, the FAGG has received reactions from concerned parents whose children cannot be treated with the most appropriate immunoglobulins, or have to start intravenous administration due to insufficient supply of subcutaneous immunoglobulins. Immunoglobulins are not mentioned in the Directive for the treatment of adult covid patients, but it could be used in some exceptional cases. Conversely, covid has an impact on the availability of immunoglobulins, as it has led to a decrease in the collection of international plasma. That is where we have a specific problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is indeed a problem, especially because it is a question of life-saving. It is good that steps have been taken. It is also a good thing that prices are being renegotiated. This again points to the enormous vulnerability we sometimes find ourselves in in terms of access to innovative and other medications and in terms of our positioning within Europe. We've had this discussion before. Above all, we must avoid real shortages and therefore lose lives. A call to donate plasma is definitely in order. A number of covid actions have already taken place. However, it is time to draw attention to this, so that our sick can be helped.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u27	Mr Minister, there are signs of different dentists and doctors stopping work earlier than planned, often when they are approaching retirement age, but sooner than they initially thought. After all, it is not always obvious to move towards more digital practice and to apply the stricter rules on practical hygiene and to make certain investments in this respect. In some cases, the risk of getting infected and getting seriously ill will also occur after covid infection. Can you tell me the figures of the number of doctors and dentists that stopped his or her practice in 2019 and in 2020, so that we can compare the figures? Can you split up the data by age and province? If indeed a tendency towards more discontinuations would be observed, will data be collected on the reasons why dentists or doctors have to stop their practice early? Can you explain it to me?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u28	Mrs Gijbels, unfortunately, no exploitable data are available today with regard to doctors and dentists who cease their practice. There are only data on the number of RIZIV numbers that have been deactivated over the course of a year, but these do not allow for a correct answer to your question today. This deactivation does not occur systematically, but only at the explicit request of a doctor or dentist. The RIZIV also does not record any reason for this when deactivation, so a causal relationship is difficult to establish. Within the framework of the law on quality practice in health care, the Public Health Office, together with the RIZIV, is working on the development of a register of practice, which will enable a better view to be gained in the future of data on practice and its discontinuation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u29	Mr. Secretary, I was afraid of it. It is indeed high time that we had a dynamic register of doctors and dentists, so that we always have a correct view of this. After all, I am now experiencing the question of whether this is a general phenomenon that has effectively stopped many doctors and dentists early, making it more difficult in some regions to find a doctor or dentist, while in cities there is often an oversupply. A dynamic register could redistribute the number of care providers, so I hope that this will finally be done very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u30	This question concerns the high propensity in our country after consultation. These include mainly antibiotics, antidepressants and antiacid medicines. Former ministers have already taken various initiatives. Then Minister Demotte promised the doctors a raise if they managed their prescription behavior properly. Under Minister De Block, doctors were fined if they prescribed too many medicines. These are two contradictory actions that we have already seen from the government. Minister, how do you evaluate these two different actions? Have those actions effectively led to a change in the prescriber's behaviour in that legislature or within that period of time? Do you also intend to take initiatives about prescribing behaviour? Last week we heard Mr van Giel from Domus Medica, who stated that no less than 55% of antibiotics have been prescribed in the current corona time, although we are all equally healthy. That is why I would like to know what your findings are and whether you will take any action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u31	Mrs Farih, my predecessors have indeed taken steps to make prescribing behaviour more effective. I mention some of the projects that were rolled out. The large packs of antacids were abolished. In the KCE project, an app was developed to calculate the cardiovascular risk, including to avoid the unnecessary prescribing of cholesterol lowering agents. RIZIV Consensus Conferences were held on the effective use of antibiotics in children, as well as a conference on opioids and on non-opioid painkillers. Cheap prescription quotas have been increased in recent years in order to free up financial resources for new generations of medicines. Consultations at the psychologist are reimbursed, also with a view to reducing unnecessary use of antidepressants. The work isn't done. As you point out, the use of antibiotics in our country is still too high, despite ongoing awareness campaigns since the 2000s. We also score poorly internationally in the field of polydrugs in the elderly. The EU-SILC survey first collected data on polydrugs at European level in 2015. The prevalence of polydrugs for our country was 34%, which is the fourth highest figure for the 18 European countries in that survey. I can conclude that we are still among the high-prescription countries. We must therefore continue to work towards effective prescribing, not only from the point of view of good and economical use of medicines, but also, and above all, from the point of view of public health. One of the objectives of the coalition agreement is to develop a new set of measures aimed at the volumes and the behaviour of the prescribers. The government wants to counter the phenomena that can lead to excessive consumption of medicines. The effectiveness and quality of pharmacological care at the level of the medicinal product and on the use of medicinal products in daily care should be increased on the basis of scientific facts and patient needs. I therefore firmly intend to take additional initiatives to promote rational prescribing behaviour. I am pleased that effective prescription has also been included in the national medical funds agreement 2021. The National Commission on Doctors-Sickness Funds is thus planning its full cooperation with the Task Force set up within the RIZIV to develop an effective care plan by 30 June 2021, which will include rational prescription. The NCAZ also proposes to contribute to the implementation of the government decision to further increase the share of cheap medicines and biosimilars and to address prescribers. I will also continue and strengthen the fight against excessive and misuse of antibiotics, including an integrated national plan to combat antimicrobial resistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have heard some good things, ranging from the continued sensitization to the effective prescription behaviour. I also heard you formulate fine objectives on biosimilar uptake, so I look forward to being able to take great steps in this area, hopefully. This can be done through Parliament, but also through you. I hope we can be partners in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u33	Question No 55013276C by Cécile Thibaut is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u34	Minister, in a recently published investigation, Test-Achats denounces the growing shortage of medicines in Belgium. According to the official Drug Agency list, more than 500 packs of drugs were unavailable at the end of November, as we read in this article. This list is still growing. Some medicines will not be available for several months. According to this study, based on the opinion of 2,100 Belgians, 28.5% of households have been facing a shortage in the last two years. While for the most part these shortages did not have serious consequences, since in fact, alternatives exist for many of these treatments, for 6% of respondents, this has had a significant impact, sometimes leading to the patient's hospitalization. Indeed, the most worrying aspect of these shortages is undoubtedly the unavailability of a large number of medicines intended to treat serious problems such as heart problems or blood problems. Finally, these shortages represent an additional cost to 32% of respondents, which is due in part to the fact that, when a pharmacist is required to order a drug abroad, the drug cannot be reimbursed. Minister, how do you explain these shortages and the long periods of unavailability of certain drugs in our country? Test-Achats calls for preventive measures to be imposed on pharmaceutical companies in order to avoid such shortages. Think it's possible? Finally, what further steps do you think are needed to address this problem in the long term? Thank you for your answers. I'm sorry I forgot to wear my headphones for the translators.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u35	For once, we forgive you, Mrs. Zanchetta.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u36	The scheduled maintenance with Test Purchase took place last week. There was a wide-ranging exchange of views on the unavailability of medicinal products. I have instructed the FAGG and the RIZIV, each within the framework of its competence, to prepare the implementation of the Law of 20 December 2019, which clarifies the delivery obligation of pharmaceutical companies. The implementation does not involve the rapid writing and signing of a royal decree, as was suggested here and there, but rather the elaboration of a concept on the following points that are included in the law. Firstly, a notification system will be developed which will allow wholesale distributors and pharmacists to send notifications to the marketing authorisation holders in the event of a suspicion of unavailability or a problem with delivery. This will bring the problems to light more quickly in practice and will also objectify. The FAGG is also working on an IT application for the accurate monitoring of stocks at the various levels, at licence holders, wholesalers, wholesalers, hospitals and pharmacies. This approach has proved very useful during the corona pandemic. The aim is to continuously monitor stocks for essential and critical medicinal products and to predict unavailability through calculations. This way we can intervene in the past and there is more time to find solutions. The scheme is the subject of an initial draft Royal Decree, which will be submitted to the Council of State in the short term. That's the first point in the law. Secondly, there is the substitution by pharmacists in the event of unavailability. Thirdly, there is compensation for the additional costs for the patient in the event of unavailability. The law states that it is not intended that the patient, the government or the compulsory insurance will pay for this. I certainly endorse that. Fourthly, the law also provides for the principle of an export ban in the event of unavailability, which could only be used in absolute necessity and with due care. This brings us to the field of application of the European Convention and European legislation. Those concepts must indeed be the subject of a royal decision. Past experience has shown that the regulation to be delivered is complex, in the sense that at the level of implementation the various stakeholders are also involved, in particular the licence holders, wholesalers and pharmacists. In doing so, the division of labour must be very clear and workable, which implies close consultation with the sector. In the light of recent experience, it is clear that the texts must be fully waterproof in the legal field, in order to avoid the risk of destruction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answers. I see that there is a real will to move forward on this delicate subject. The patient who goes to a pharmacy often has very few answers as to the duration of this unavailability. If, in addition, it has to pay an additional cost for another molecule or medicine, it is really problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am pleased that you recognise the problem and that you are planning and even implementing initiatives. I believe that the reporting system and the IT system that keeps the stocks can be very important in this respect. I also hope that you will come to concrete results quickly, when it comes to the right of substitution and the financial consequences for patients. I do not think that patients can be expected to pay for this. I suspect that I do not need to make anyone aware of what it means to a patient to be confronted with the unavailability of a medicine, which is often of vital importance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u39	Mrs Fonck, there are interuniversity courses in alcoology, such as SSMG and partner universities, as indicated. But the offer is wider than that. For example, the INAMI database on approved training and post-training for the accreditation of doctors shows clear attention to the problem of alcohol abuse. Between 2015 and 2020, the number of courses registered is as follows: - and 2015: 109; - and 2016: 104; - and 2017: 131; - and 2018: 102; - and 2019: 103; - and 2020: 96. I can even communicate to you the distinction between Francophones and Dutch speakers. However, there is nothing surprising to find there. These courses are organized by various institutions such as general practitioners' circles, scientific associations, universities and university hospitals. The most active organizers are: Vereniging voor Alcoholen ande Drugproblemen, which organized 192 activities; the Société Scientifique de Médecine Générale (SSMG), which organized 89 activities; and the Drug Aid Network with 33 activities. They include a diversity of approaches to this issue, such as the impact on health in specific areas, therapy and family or other interventions, as well as legal and social aspects. Intensification of continuing training can range from basic in-service training on a specific theme to modules forming part of a fully-fledged training. There are, however, other training courses on alcohol. Professional associations such as SSMG and Domus Medica offer them. In addition, I am funding, in partnership with the Prime Minister's Chancery, the development of training aimed at educating general practitioners on the management of alcohol-using patients in a problematic manner. This offer will be launched this year with, as a first step, an e-learning module; in a second step, multidisciplinary training on a blended learning model. In addition, a pilot project to improve the detection and general hospital care of alcohol problems is currently being funded by my services in several hospital facilities. To achieve this goal, hospitals must commit to investing, among other things, in the training and awareness of caregivers. The project also aims to help formalize an alcohol care circuit - what to do or guide - in each of the hospitals involved. Recognition of the title of alcoholic drug is not on the agenda; accompaniment in the withdrawal of alcohol requires both care and medical follow-up. In addition, I would like to point out that consultations with a psychologist or first-line orthopaedagogue are partly reimbursed when prescribed by a physician. These are some of the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u40	Mr President, I will first allow myself a little teasing to the minister. Seeing you sneezing, minister, I wonder if you should do a covid test.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u41	Me?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u42	Any doubt, any symptoms, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u43	That's right. You never know.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u44	You never know. If the cold persists or there are signs of a cold, I will advise you. For you first and for all the others, of course. I'm teasing you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u45	I get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u46	We're just like everybody else. We're all part of the same mess in this pandemic. Thank you for your answer. It is true that the many training courses you have mentioned, if I am not mistaken, take place mainly within the framework of GLEMs, continuing training etc. This is obviously something very positive because a lot of doctors, generalists or specialists, or paramedics, are directly confronted with many patients who come to see them for the ravages of alcohol or for anything else, but with ravages unfortunately due to alcohol. It is certainly a positive initiative on the part of the government to provide e-learning training. I think we should capitalize much more on e-learning training, but this is another debate. However, the care of people who are unfortunately dependent on alcohol is particularly difficult. These are very long-term care and the number of caregivers, in the general sense of the term, who are now in a position to take care of them is not very high. This clearly raises the question of the recognition of more specific and advanced training, as I mentioned in my question, including with a refund of particular consultation, in alcoology. You know that's the case with tobaccoology, so why not in alcoology? It seems to me that this is a subject that should be able to be addressed, why not in the context of a study with an international comparison, whether it be done by the KCE or the Higher Council of Health? I am, in any case, making suggestions here. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u47	Mrs Fonck, discussions are under way at European level to review the conditions for the use of nitrite and nitrate in processed meat. The Public Health FPS, representing Belgium, remains in contact with Belgian stakeholders, including the food industry, and communicates about its work within the Food Policy Advisory Council. Several documents are already available to support these discussions, such as the opinions of the European Food Authority, a European report on the technological needs of these additives in food, documents of the Codex Alimentarius, Danish legislation, legislation on the use of nitrites in organic production, the respective positions of the Member States of the European Union and the opinions of stakeholders. Some projects aim to reduce exposure by setting not only maximum levels of use during the manufacturing process, but also maximum residual levels at the end of the same process or at the marketing stages – which are below levels of use. The most difficult discussions concern specific products known as 'traditional products', for which exceptions had been requested and granted in the past. Removing or, at least, greatly reducing these exceptions would be a simplification. For several years, we have found that producers replace nitrite, as legally authorized, with extracts containing nitrite. Such a practice has been described on several occasions as illegal by the competent European and national authorities, because these extracts do indeed fulfil an additive function, they have not been the subject of an application for authorisation and therefore no authorisation could be established in accordance with European legislation on food additives. In addition, this practice is also misleading to the consumer. A declaration confirming illegality was again published in 2019 at the European level and is included in the list of frequently asked questions and answers about additive legislation, which is published on the websites of the Public Health FPS and the AFSCA. As far as evaluation is concerned, the AFSCA carries out checks. To obtain data on nitrite levels in foods, you can ask my colleague Clarinval about your question, as AFSCA is under his jurisdiction. ANSES was seized in 2020 and formed a multidisciplinary group to identify the risks associated with the consumption of nitrite and nitrate. It is certain that EFSA will follow this work closely. It may be the subject of collaboration within the framework of institutionalized scientific cooperation between EFSA and the Member States. The results could feed into an update of EFSA's opinion that re-evaluated this additive in 2017, but provided they provide new evidence. However, only an EFSA opinion can serve as a scientific basis for the development or revision of European legislation. In any event, the process of revising the conditions of use is already under way as mentioned above. At this stage, it is therefore not appropriate to refer this issue to the Higher Health Council, especially since this would lead to unnecessary duplication of the scientific work of EFSA and ANSES. Whether I have already worked with the Minister of Agriculture? These issues are discussed at the Food Policy Advisory Council where all stakeholders are represented, including myself and my colleague David Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answer. I take note that there will be no specific study carried out in Belgium via the Higher Council for Health. No problem! But this means that it will be necessary to be able to take into account the findings of studies in other countries and not to wait two years to decide whether to repeat them again. Recall that colorectal cancer is a particularly important public health issue! It is one of the first cancers in Belgium affecting both women and men. New scientific data on hold, okay! I will ask the Minister for Agriculture about the rate changes in Belgium and the number of products containing these nitrites, or even the other types of additives used as an alternative. Would it not be appropriate, with all the stakeholders and first of all with the charcuterie producers, to examine the possibility of a positive dynamic to be set up, with objectives to be set in terms of capacity and number of products, in order to make positive and constructive progress with the sector in order to gradually move towards better consumer protection?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u49	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Minister Clarinval will be present in committee Monday afternoon to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u50	Minister, in the covid crisis, the FAGG played a very important role, with varying degrees of success. We have already discussed this in plenary, where you indicated that, for example, the forgotten signature for the additional order of 2.5 million vaccines in December would be included in the evaluation. I have the following questions, Minister. When was the last FAGG evaluated? Who carried out the evaluation? Was it about the organization or the persons or both? In the meantime, have you commissioned an internal and external evaluation of the FAGG? If not, when are you planning to do that? We are on the eve of a third wave. Was there a debriefing about the first and second wave? How does the flow of communication between the FAGG and your services proceed? Does that all go optimally? Is there a clear job description in the crisis? Are you convinced that the independence and objectivity of the FAGG vis-à-vis the pharmaceutical sector can be guaranteed? Are there any agreements on that? To what extent does the government determine the position of the FAGG during the covid vaccine negotiations? Do directives come directly from the government or does the FAGG itself decide what position it holds?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u51	Ms Depoorter, the FAGG is a public utility institution with legal personality classified in category A according to the law of 16 March 1954 and is bound by the rules applicable within the federal government, in particular with regard to the annual follow-up of both the Agency's strategic and operational plan. The FAGG is under the supervision and responsibility of the Minister of Health. As I have already said, the follow-up to the operational plan is submitted twice a year to the Transparency Committee of the FAGG. My representative will participate in the work of that committee from this year on. The last evaluation of the operational plan carried out by the FAGG concerns us and is being looked at. As regards your third and fourth questions, the appointment, implementation and evaluation of the mandates within the FAGG are subject to the provisions of the Royal Decree of 16 November 2006. I have already referred to the evaluation in an answer given earlier and the evaluation is carried out within the framework of those procedures. The FAGG carried out an internal evaluation on its own initiative after the first wave. As for your seventh question, there are several coordination bodies linked to the management of the covid crisis that should allow for clear and transparent communication. The Agency plays an important role in this and is considered to communicate directly with the policy cell when it comes to information that certainly needs to be communicated to the custody authorities and vice versa. Timely and adequate information flow is crucial, especially for managing an acute health crisis with such an impact on the population. It is important to pay sufficient attention to this at all times. That is what we are doing and we are also considering how, for example, communication in all directions can be as optimal as possible. Where necessary, we shall take measures to strengthen this. As for your eighth question, this information is available on the website of the FAGG. It has already been transferred to the representatives of the people in the framework of the special committee COOVID-19. As far as your ninth question is concerned, all employees of the FAGG are required to declare their interests annually and are bound by the deontological code applicable to officials of the federal government. As far as your supplementary question is concerned, the positions taken by the FAGG, for example in European negotiations, will be taken on behalf of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health in this case. They are politically knocked off and then further implemented by the FAGG in the framework of the negotiating procedures conducted by the European Commission. The European Commission has been given the basic mandate of the Member States for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u52	Mr President, Minister, I welcome the fact that the Transparency Committee will meet twice a year and that someone from your cabinet will participate in it. You'll have to look at the latest evaluation. I do not get many concrete answers or much confirmation of the fact that many steps have already been taken in relation to the functioning of that organisation, which has really been crucial during this pandemic and is still in favour of covid vaccination. I think it is your responsibility to take steps towards an external evaluation so that we can effectively arm ourselves in the future. I therefore find it very special that the draft law currently before the European Commission does not include an evaluation of the FAGG before you give the Agency additional tasks, powers and power. We will certainly take that into account in the discussion of your bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u53	Minister, the strategic stock of syringes and needles was destroyed in 2014 and not supplemented. At present we know a certain penuria of syringes of 1 milliliter and that strategic stock included such syringes as well. Mr Minister, how come that stock wasn't replenished? When were you informed that that stock ever existed but was not replenished? Have your services already issued an opinion on how to replenish the stock?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u54	Mrs Depoorter, you have asked a question about the past and a question about what we are doing now. On 17 August 2015, in a previous legislature, an award decision was indeed signed for the destruction of a expired part of the strategic stock, including needles and syringes. We can now, of course, discuss the decision taken at the time on the basis of current insights and experience. One of the current experiences is, of course, that pandemics can suddenly and unexpectedly threaten us and that we may have to take that into account in the future. With the knowledge that we now have, this matter would certainly have gone a different way. That is all I will say, because I have the habit of looking forward, not backwards. Playin' movies of the past isn't that interesting. It is important that we learn lessons now and be prepared for the future as far as possible. We must learn from the past and, above all, from the recent past, from what this pandemic has meant. You're right to ask what I did myself. Well, when I arrived, there was no strategic stock of syringes and needles. Anyway, through national procedures, the government bought about 29 million syringes and about 25.5 million needles. A weekly overview of this can be found on the website of the FAGG. For the time being, a European joint procurement procedure has not resulted in purchases for our country, primarily because of the uncertain delivery times of the suppliers, who, however, came out of this European procedure as laureates. That's why we've been on other slopes. As regards the fact that we have also updated our purchasing policy in relation to the specific type of syringes we need in relation to the sixth dose from the vials of Pfizer, we spoke last week and I would like to refer to my reply last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will briefly replicate, in the same trend as my reply earlier. The strategic stock of syringes was the responsibility of the FPS Public Health. The FPS Public Health has not completed that stock further and has thus not taken on its task. In your plans for a bill, I read that the Public Health Office will be given even more power and powers. I therefore recommend that you make a very clear assessment before taking any further steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u56	Mrs Gijbels, my collaborator lets me know immediately that we can provide a lot more information, provided that a written procedure is in place. You are asking for a lot of numbers. However, I am also concerned about the subject, so I will give you some figures. According to the most recent figures I could see, from 2018, 75.5 % of Belgians have a global medical file. In Limburg, the percentage is the highest at 87.6 %. In Brussels this is the lowest by 58.6 %. So that's a bit different. Antwerp has a percentage of 81.7 %, which is also high. Hainaut has 76,7 %, Liège 71,0 %, Luxembourg 67,9 %, Namur 71,3 %, East Flanders 81,3 %, Flemish Brabant 76,4 %, Walloon Brabant 63,8 % and West Flanders 85,6 %. The provincial figures aren't exactly surprising. They confirm an existing image that needs to be worked on. In the IMA-Atlas you can find the figures up to the level of the arrondissement, as well as an evolution over the years. Evolution is favorable. In 2009, only 49.9% of Belgians had a GMD. I have not yet received the figures for the number of patients with the status of chronic disease with a GMD. The amount for a GMD has been 55 euros since 1 January 2016 for patients between 45 and 74 years old with the status of chronic disease. The amount for the GMD is, as you know, once increased by 20 euros. In fact, we assumed that the general practitioners had received a lot of administrative burdens from COOVID-19. We'll divide that on the basis of the number of GMDs. The GMD is a very important tool for the continuity and quality of care. It is better for individual patients and for consultation between patients and doctors. However, I am not saying that it can't do any better. A study by the Medical Evaluation and Control Service sees improvement. That is certainly a point of interest to me as well. You ask for a lot of information, but you may need to submit a written question so that we can provide you with a well-documented written answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u57	Minister, I know there are a lot of questions. I am very curious whether the impact of the GMD on public health is measured. Can I also get the explanation in writing? The additional budget allocated to the COVID-19 GMDs was a good incentive to encourage people to use the GMDs in the future. I thought that was a good move. The fact that there is work to be done is confirmed once again. I am glad to hear that you yourself see the great advantages of this. I'll take your employee and see if I can get the data right away, or do I submit a new question?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u58	Not that I want to delay you, but I think it is the best procedure for you to put forward a new question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u59	Mr. Secretary, it's coming up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u60	Minister, the Medical Evaluation and Control Service (DGEC) is the department that controls our healthcare providers. From the field I had heard that the self-employed home nurses felt endorsed. That is why I asked you for written information. 294. The figures you provided show that the vast majority of the checks actually take place with self-employed home nurses, as in the case of neutral home care, rather than with the services linked to insurance institutions. Why is that, Minister? Why are there so many checks at neutral home care, when there are hardly any checks at home nursing services, linked to the insurance institutions? Do you understand the frustration of the field of work and that the self-employed home nurses feel endorsed? Maybe the phenomenon is linked to the percentage of violations. In any case, why is the neutral self-employed home care so endorsed by the control unit?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u61	The Medical Evaluation and Control Service of the RIZIV carries out inspection activities on the basis of notifications and own risk analyses. There is therefore no specific focus on self-employed workers or employees, but on charging behaviour and possible administrative errors, abuse, intentional infringements, etc. For the sake of clarity, I would like to stress that in the data available to DGEC, it is not visible which home nurses are or are not linked to an insurance institution. You're telling me that people feel endorsed. If that is the case, the DGEC hopes that, as I have just said, those feelings will have a proper place in it. Only a very small minority of all self-employed home nurses start an investigation. I really hope that people will assume that there is no bias here. As I have replied to your written question No. 294, the service does not have information that would confirm that home nurses are linked to insurance institutions. The alleged infringements of some health care providers are also not representative of the whole group or extrapolable to the sector. That's not right. I certainly don't expect that to happen either. I wouldn't want anyone to feel that either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u62	Minister, I have added your answer to that question. It states that the vast majority of investigations take place in the self-employed home care sector and are barely linked to the mutualities. Maybe you should take a look at the figures yourself, see if that's true and then do something about it. The answer given to me with the figures seems to me to indicate that this is the case. This must therefore be remediated. Checks in the sector should be the same, regardless of whether they are self-employed home care or home care linked to insurance institutions. The checks must be spread out. We would be pleased if you would look at the figures on this subject and your answer, which you yourself have provided, namely that the checks are carried out mainly in the case of self-employed nursing. We would also be pleased if you could correct that imbalance if it were confirmed and your answer proved to be correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u63	Mr. Chair, Minister, I wanted to talk to you about sleep disorders, and more specifically, sleep obstructive apnea syndrome (SAOS). So far, this syndrome is detected by an examination performed in the hospital, with electrodes placed on the person who sleeps - or does not sleep - for a whole night. According to the statistics I found, in Belgium, nearly 140,000 people were diagnosed with SAOS in 2018, compared to 51,000 in 2011. There was still a sharp increase. Is it because there have been more diagnoses that have been made or not? I don't know. A start-up company, Sunrise, has just won an Innovation Award in the health and well-being category in Las Vegas as part of the Consumer Electronics Show, the world's largest high-tech show. The company presented an intelligent sensor called Sunrise. Sunrise, which is small in size, is placed on the face and can diagnose SAOS in a home environment. It is a kind of pre-diagnosis that would make it possible to decide if it is necessary to make the diagnosis with the electrodes in hospital for a whole night. Minister, have you learned about this new technology? Moreover, I think it is important to stress that it is developed by a Belgian start-up. It is true that the MR group is always sensitive to entrepreneurial spirit and innovation. Are discussions ongoing within the administration and with the medical profession to allow this device to be used for a pre-diagnosis at home of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome? It would also save money, since it costs less than a night in the hospital. This also allows me to address the issue of cost-effectiveness, the impact on expenditure of the use of such technological innovations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u64	Mrs Gilson, Sunrise is a certified medical device for the study of sleep, allowing a rapid home diagnosis of sleep apnea. For all mobile medical applications, there is a validation pyramid. Let me explain it to you. Level 1 is the basic level. To obtain validation at this stage, it is sufficient that the medical technology has CE marking as a medical device, that it may be voluntarily notified as a mobile application to the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products (AFMPS) and that its manufacturer declares that it is in order from the point of view of the GDPR. The validation level 2 concerns interoperability and connectivity with the basic services of the eHealth platform. Level 3 is reserved for applications that meet all the criteria of the first two levels and can demonstrate socio-economic added value. Where appropriate, these applications may be financed by INAMI after a positive opinion on their application for reimbursement. In recent days, the procedure for submitting an application for this purpose has been published on the INAMI website. As the url is very long, Mrs Schelens, my advisor here, can send you my written answer. Currently, the Sunrise medical device is validated at Level 1. Before the company can apply for reimbursement from INAMI, it still has to apply for validation at level 2. The information required for this procedure can be found on the eHealth website. For the time being, obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (SOA) is still most often diagnosed on the basis of a polysomnographic examination, which is conducted in hospital and reimbursed under the health benefits nomenclature. In order to obtain an intervention from health care insurance in the cost of certain treatments of the SAOS, particularly in the case of the CPAP - apparatus that supports breathing during the night - and through the orthotics of mandibular advance, such polysomnography performed in hospital is always required. However, it is clear that the diagnostic system and treatment of OSAS should be reviewed on the basis of the findings and recommendations of the related KCE 330 report, which was published last summer. It is the responsibility of INAMI and its relevant committees to assess the current system and possibly undertake a reform of it. In this context, the method of making the diagnosis must, in any case, be assessed. It is clear that there are several alternatives to the current diagnostic method of a hospital polysomnography. Sunrise mobile medical application is just one of these alternatives. It is also possible to perform a polysomnography, so far always done in the hospital or in the patient's home. There is also a polygraph that records less data than a polysomnography, but records more data than the Sunrise medical device. The advantages and disadvantages of all these diagnostic methods and their place in the future organization of the diagnosis of OSAS should therefore be examined. Your third question is very broad. Since technological innovations in health care are everywhere, a list of all these innovations introduced over the past 10 or 15 years, in any area of health care and for any pathology, does not exist, as I know. I am therefore not aware of the global studies that examine the cost-effectiveness and impact on expenditure of all these technological innovations. In general, existing studies are limited to examining the cost-effectiveness and budgetary impact of a particular technological innovation. It seems to me that it is not possible to provide you with a complete survey of the numerous published scientific studies dealing with this subject. On the other hand, at the level of health care insurance, the cost of these technological innovations is not always easy to estimate, as this cost is, in many cases, part of the overall cost of certain health benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u65	Minister, thank you for the additional information you have provided. I note that the application is already validated for Level 1 and that Levels 2 and 3 still need to be covered. In general, I mean that you are always attentive to the possibilities of integrating new technologies into the diagnosis of pathologies, as this is effective and can lead to savings in favour of the state budget, of course, while respecting privacy data. As you mentioned, a verification of compliance with the GDPR will have to take place as part of validation No. 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u66	Minister, it would appear that since the introduction of the new duty stations, the journeys and movements of general practitioners have been drastically extended during the period of duty they are required to provide. This would logically have a greater impact on professionals working in more rural areas, where population density is lower. As you know, the nomenclature already provides for an additional allowance for general practitioners who work in these regions, but these currently only include trips over three kilometres. For this reason, the Belgian Association of Medical Trade Unions (ABSyM) recently proposed the introduction of an additional kilometric allowance for long-term travel during the period of custody. Minister, what are the general practitioners in these rural areas representing on all the doctors who are currently present? Do all general practitioners in rural areas receive the additional allowance? What is the average estimate of these allowances per year? In this context, have your services already been sought by the associations of general practitioners? If so, what exactly are their solicitations? What answers have you been able to give them? What exactly is your position with regard to the ABSyM's proposal to introduce an additional kilometric allowance? Has it already been submitted to the Medical Technical Council of INAMI? If so, what are the conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u67	Mrs Taquin, we have not received any signals that the new posts would like to extend the journeys. In addition, the vast majority of positions are in contact with specialized transport firms that provide a car with a driver. I have only partial answers and perhaps it would be better to introduce a written question. We do not have direct information from INAMI to answer your first question. For your second question, I don't have this analysis, but we could do a review of what's being paid to physicians on an annual average. But I couldn't do that analysis. In general, I can say the following. The duty station normally provides various means of transportation for physicians to avoid or very little use of their vehicle. Various possibilities are validated by INAMI: - transport via an all-in external firm (car and driver); - transport via an external firm (heater only); - transport via an external firm (car only); - the doctor drives the car belonging to the guard station; - the doctor drives himself (use of a social taxi), - the doctor uses his own vehicle and receives compensation. The last cases mentioned - the use of a social taxi, the doctor himself drives the car belonging to the guard station, the doctor uses his own vehicle and receives compensation - concern a very large minority of guard stations. Indeed, only three guard stations reported significant expenditure on this type of transport in 2019: AGRF Chimay (57 000 euros); national guard post 6 in Tubize (50 000 euros); mixed transport with an all-in Meander transport company (?) (14,000 euros). According to the figures based on the 2019 financial reports, some guard stations pay an allowance to doctors but in exceptional cases this results in minimal costs, between 10 and 250 euros. I have not been contacted by medical organizations in this area. A maximum budget for transport is normally based on the most favourable commercial contract for the 101 hours of transport/doctors via an external transport company for an all-in car with driver. I have very partial answers. As you can see, this answer is not very well organized. May I suggest that you introduce a written question? So we can really do analyses. These are interesting questions but it would really take a little time to do these analyses and provide you with appropriate statistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u68	I thank the minister for trying to answer. I will, of course, come back in writing; this question seems important to me, especially at this time. You mention the figures you have for 2019, but with the covid crisis and the imposed measures, I imagine that doctors probably also preferred the use of their personal vehicle. It is to be analysed and studied, but I shall return to this question in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u69	Minister, obesity is increasingly becoming a public health issue. Unfortunately, it is feared that the pandemic will only exacerbate this problem. You have recently told me, in response to a written question on childhood obesity, that the results of a pilot study in the Netherlands were worrying (net decline in health since the beginning of the health crisis, weight gain among 20% of children, among others). A joint FPS Public Health and Sciensano survey found that in 2018, the prevalence of overweight was 49%, and 16% for the prevalence of obesity. This is why some health professionals are very soon afraid of an explosion of requests for obesity surgery. However, this type of surgery is not without risk. The side effects and complications that such an operation may cause should not be underestimated. In 2020, KCE made a number of recommendations in this area, including: drawing up a national consensus document listing interventions for multidisciplinary pre- and post-operative care; applying a minimum period of three months between first contact and operation; designating a care coordinator in each hospital; ensuring a minimum follow-up of two years after operation; establishing additional conditions for reimbursement; or financing the care of bariatric surgery through a system of agreements, with a package covering all pre- and post-operative care. How many patients do they use bariatric treatment such as bypass or sleeve on our territory? How many of these treatments have resulted in complications? What are the causes? Could you detail these data and their evolution by type of operation and for the last five years? On the basis of the studies carried out, could an estimate of the number of future patients be made by expert specialists? Have you read the recommendations made by the KCE last year? What concrete steps do you intend to take and can you take quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u70	Both questions relate to bariatric interventions. Weight gain during the containment period is a phenomenon that is not only observed in Belgium but is also demonstrated in various international studies. Several causes can be identified in this regard: excessive snack consumption, consumption of larger main meals and lack of physical exercise during periods of containment. As you rightly point out, obesity is a risk factor leading to a more serious evolution of covid-19 infection. Overweight and obesity are among the main challenges of today's and tomorrow's health policy, which is even more emphasized at this time. The classic way to lose weight is to change your eating habits and increase your physical activity. If these changes produce little or no results, an operation to lose weight and called bariatric surgery can be considered. Between 2007 and 2017, more than 105,000 people were subjected to this type of intervention in our country. In Belgium, the most common procedures are gastric bypass (63% of procedures) and sleeve or gastroctomy, which consists of a reduction in the stomach (35% of procedures). The gastric ring is almost no longer used. These so-called bariatric interventions are effective and have a long-term effect, provided that patients then adapt their eating habits and behaviour for the rest of their lives. The chances of success increase further when patients are accompanied medically, nutritionally and psychologically, both before and two years after the intervention. I cannot therefore rely on a single type of treatment, but to address problems such as obesity as part of an integrated policy. The keys to the fight against obesity are prevention, awareness of healthy eating and promotion of physical activity. As you know, prevention and public awareness campaigns fall within the competence of the federated entities. At the federal level, several measures have been taken with regard to healthy eating: the introduction of Nutriscore, the Food Convention balanced with the food sector, and the reimbursement of dietary treatment for children and adolescents suffering from overweight or obesity. The fight against obesity will continue in consultation with my colleagues from the federated entities in the Interministerial Conference. The Federal Centre of Expertise for Health Care (KCE) recommends that intensive preparation be harmonized. My services will continue to examine how this harmonization can be achieved. In addition, patients should be prevented from seeing such interventions as a quick and easy solution. The patient should be encouraged to adapt his/her lifestyle and eating habits initially. It is therefore necessary to take the time before deciding to opt for a bariatric intervention. But patient involvement is not only important in preparation. It is also important in follow-up care. The recommendation to draft a national consensus document will be considered by my services. Finally, as I have already mentioned, psychological support is also important. Mental health care is at the heart of my policy. On medical prescription, these patients will also be reimbursed when they go to a contracted psychologist.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u71	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. We feel how important this issue is to you. You mention the usefulness of the work in the Interministerial Conference. You stress the importance of eating habits and the importance of physical activity. I therefore take this reply to ask you to pay attention to last week's issue of sport by prescription. You mentioned that it was not a federal jurisdiction. I therefore invite you to speak about this at the Interministerial Conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u72	Mr President, Mr Minister, as I have recently told your colleague, the Minister of the Interior, the job of firefighter is a vocation to sometimes difficult working conditions. As we know, stress is an integral part of their daily lives. Unfortunately, their activity is not without risk to their health. In the long term, smoke inhalation seems to have a serious impact on the health of firefighters. Thanks to new equipment specifically designed for this purpose, smoke no longer seems to reach the lungs directly. Nevertheless, it appears that defiled clothing would play a role in the development of cancers when they are removed. In 2016, our universities studied this issue. Blood results indicate a high level of toxic substances in firefighters. While assuring their duty to help others in situations of extreme emergency, one of the concerns of firemen is the legitimate safeguarding of their health. That must also be our case. According to a study by the Inland FPS, the life expectancy of firefighters is 70 years. This figure is 10 years lower than the national average. At the same time, during this period of health crisis, relief workers have been subjected to even greater tensions. Minister, how exactly do we explain that the life expectancy of our firemen is drastically shorter than the national average? Do you have more accurate research results and scientific statistics on this subject? If so, what concrete initiatives are planned to combat this situation? If not, could we launch initiatives to specialize in research in this area? Have there been any correlations between firefighter intervention and the development of certain diseases, such as cancers or the incidence on the heart? Has a causal link already been demonstrated? Do you have any information on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u73	Mr. Chairman, Ms. Taquin, the study you are referring to has not yet been forwarded to us and has not been discussed with the Public Health or Social Security FPS either. We did not find any other study in Belgium that corroborated the discovery of too low a life expectancy for firefighters. In the international literature, several studies have shown that all-cause mortality (general mortality) is lower among firefighters than among the general population, as there may be a selection of healthy people to hire firefighters, either from the employer or from the person choosing the occupation. Rather, this should lead to a relative increase in life expectancy. In response to your second question, I am able to inform you that the Scientific Council of the Federal Occupational Hazards Agency (Fedris) has commissioned by its Medical Commission "Chemical and Toxic Agents" an extensive international survey of scientific literature on the issue of occupational cancers in firefighters. Designed in the second half of 2019, this study was specifically designed to establish the presence of sufficient evidence to recognize a specific type of cancer as an occupational disease in firefighters and to verify whether it was possible to develop recommendations for prevention and, possibly, sustained health surveillance. This study concluded that firefighters are potentially exposed to multiple carcinogens, both in their own firefighting activity and during their training – by inhalation and skin contact – as well as in the barracks – when cleaning the equipment. As far as the recognition of an occupational disease is concerned, the substantial problem lies in the assessment of exposure, which is extremely diversified qualitatively and quantitatively. The types of cancer and potential target organs are also very varied. It should be noted that firefighters may be exposed to other hazards such as night work, cleaning, clean-up, tanker accidents, wasps nests, etc. In general, based on the analysis of the available relevant scientific literature, we can conclude that there is no evidence that firefighters are at increased risk of developing a particular type of cancer. A slightly increased risk of several cancers is reported in most epidemiological studies, but the evidence remains equivocal and the results lack consistency. It is important to note that the latency time of cancer onset varies greatly: 5 to 45 years. For some types of cancer, it can be particularly long. The duration of follow-up by firefighters is too limited to objective a potential increased risk. On the basis of this sharp analysis, the Scientific Council concluded that it was difficult to propose specific recommendations for the early detection of cancer in this working population. One suggestion might be that the Cancer Registry investigates and reports cancers by profession. Long-term health surveillance also requires accurate knowledge of the type of cancer. However, adequate preventive measures to limit exposure, the use of individual means of protection, optimal information and training, as well as general medical surveillance are necessary. It is in fact the combination of a limited – insufficiently precise – characterization of exposure and a lack of reproducibility in determining the incidence of mortality for cancer localization types that prevents drawing precise and definitive conclusions – except for mesothelioma. Firefighters can be considered to be at increased risk of mesothelium, a serious condition characterized by a particularly long latency time. Mesothelium has been on the Belgian list of occupational diseases since December 1982 and the criteria for recognition and reparation were defined in 2004. With regard to possible extended health surveillance measures, the Fedris Scientific Council has already thoroughly examined its validity and relevance for certain cancers, including mesothelium. The answer was negative, except for nasal cancer for former woodworkers. From the analysis carried out specifically for firefighters, there was no new evidence that could alter these conclusions. The recommendations that can be given to firefighters therefore do not differ from those given to the general public.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u74	Minister, thank you for the clarification you have just given me. You may think that this is a case that I will continue to follow closely because there are still some shadows that cause me serious concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u75	Question No 55013424C by Mrs Laurence Zanchetta is postponed at her request. Mr Minister, can we continue with the two questions Nos 55013426C and 55013438C of Mr Patrick Prévot?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u76	Mr President, I apologize, but I would like to leave for family reasons. I'd like to greet an uncle who died. Can these questions be postponed to a future date because they require a fairly long answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u77	Minister, first of all, I would like to express my condolences. Indeed, the circumstances require you to be able to leave us as soon as possible. I therefore defer my questions to the next question-and-answer session.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u78	That's very nice of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u79	That's quite normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic359x.u80	I also offer our condolences, Minister.
