ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I am temporarily replacing our usual chairman, who is retained by tasks just as important as this committee meeting and who will join us at around 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u2	Mr President, Secretary of State: after the COOVID-19 crisis, the Belgian economy will undergo a transformation. To this end, it will be able to use in part some EUR 5.9 billion from the European Recovery Plan, on which an agreement has finally been reached. Your policy cell is currently preparing, in consultation with the federated levels, the services of the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers, a Belgian recovery and investment plan. This plan, which should be submitted to the European Commission, will propose important investment projects and reforms. When will the first draft of that Belgian recovery and investment plan be submitted to the European Commission before the final version is submitted? The distribution key is now known, but which projects is it exactly? Can you give a first look at your list of priorities? I have the greatest confidence in the way in which we will be involved in this dossier. Even now, we are well involved in your plans. Finally, I would like to urge you not to forget the companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u3	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, indeed, the European Union's recovery and resilience plan is one of the major – if not the most important – pillars of relaunching economic redeployment in the coming years, following the current serious crisis linked to the covid-19 pandemic. As a reminder, the Federal State and the federated entities have returned, in the form of fact sheets, projects which they intend to finance thanks to these European means amounting to EUR 5.9 billion, which represents a change from the figures announced at the end of last year. Some three hundred records would have come to your office. I therefore imagine that the work had to be intense in order to select the cards and projects that were to be retained. The distribution of the plan was announced last week, with 21% of the funds for the federal level, 25% for the Walloon level, 38.1% for the Flemish level, 8.4% for the Walloon-Brussels Federation and 6.7% for the Brussels Region. I wanted to ask you three questions mainly, knowing that the final version of the plan is expected by the end of April. Could you first clarify the basis on which the distribution of amounts among the different political entities was made? In the press, we talk about various keys: the one proposed by Europe, based on gross domestic product (GDP), the one based on average incomes, the one based on public investment, the one based on population or the one based on the average of the best options. According to the press, Wallonia defended the European key based on GDP and Flanders defended the one based on population. Could you clarify exactly what was happening? With regard to the projects that will be selected, which is the heart of the actions, on what criteria will you select them? For us, the environmental impact, the social impact and the impact in terms of returning jobs anchored at home are very important. Do you have specific criteria in relation to this? Do you already have some examples of projects that you could give today or that you have decided to take over? What about Parliament's involvement? Do you intend to involve the parliamentarians of this Committee on Economy or another in the reflection on these projects? Finally, as a Brusselsman, I myself am questioned by the amount allocated to our capital, which is the economic lung of our country. In order to alleviate certain fears, I also wanted to ask you whether you could specify the criteria specifically taken into account in the calculation of the distribution for Brussels and, above all, detail the amounts of the other entities. I am thinking above all of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, Flanders and the federal level, which will invest in Brussels territory. As a Brussels political leader, I hope that the other entities of the country can invest in their capitals. Could any clarifications be provided in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, I had initially addressed this question on the employment dimension in the recovery plan to Minister Dermagne. This matter has been referred to you. Perhaps my question is more specific to the 'employment and work' dimension. I will not go back to the $5.9 billion earmarked for projects around the five axes, nor to the fact that you have received 300 sheets that you are busy sorting. The questions that interest me as a parliamentarian concerned with employment matters are as follows: what are the fact sheets you received on employment matters and how much? I would like to know the criteria that guided Minister Dermagne's choice. So I would like to ask you what criteria will guide the final choice of this plan that you will refer back to in April? What is your selection criterion in the productivity axis and in the records that will be selected? What will be the proportion of productivity in our territory for the $1.25 billion allocated to the federal government?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, the covid crisis is hitting our economy enormously. With the recovery and investment plan, the government intends to limit as much as possible the impact of this crisis on the economy in order to contribute to the revival of the economy. An important part of that plan is the Recovery and Resilience Plan (PHV), which is to be submitted to the European Commission by 30 April 2021 at the latest in order to benefit from European funding. In the meantime, we know how much money we can possibly get and, of course, we need to draw up a plan to see which projects can benefit from this money. There are a number of criteria attached. Approximately 37% of expenditure should focus on the ecological transition and 20% on the digital transition. In addition, investment projects should, as far as possible, be linked to structural reforms and the PHR should also be aligned with European priorities. A first draft plan is now under way. Can you explain to us exactly what is already on the table? What projects will there be? How much money is it for the total of all these projects? There will undoubtedly be more projects than we will be able to finance in the end. Then the question is how to make a selection and what criteria the government will use to make choices and decide which projects will be included in the draft plan. Your policy paper also explicitly states that you will enter into consultation with the social partners and a dialogue with consultative bodies such as the Central Business Council and the Federal Council for Sustainable Development. To what extent have they already been contacted or are they involved in the initial composition of the various projects? The first draft must be submitted to the European Commission. Has there been any consultation with the European Commission on the first drafts? What's the first feedback on that? Finally, the Prime Minister also hopes that the plan and European funds will also trigger private investment. To what extent will private investment be attracted? How do you estimate the impact on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u6	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize, but I will be a little longer than you. Indeed, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity of a debate to further sweep the substantive aspects of the recovery and resilience plan, much more than the issues that I will not call peripherals because they will not be without impact but, in any case, more political and related to the key of distribution between entities. I do not believe that I need to do so as an opposition party since the majority is doing so very well itself by criticising its own key to the distribution between entities. Mr Secretary of State, I note that in the plan which you have structured and which essentially fulfils its original intentions, the European criteria – which can only be judged on a piece later – very little is said about the keys to disaggregating the means between different themes. In the few debates that we have had so far, we have focused a little too often on the recovery plan. The debate that struck me most was the one that we had in committee at the time of your general policy note. As I have just said, too often it is forgotten that there are also keys to disaggregating the means between themes. In particular, the digital contribution of which at least 20% of the estimated costs of the plan must contribute to achieving this objective, without omitting the ecological component for which at least 37% of the estimated costs of the plan must contribute to achieving the objective of the ecological transition. I therefore wonder about the method. The former consultant you are and the one I have been able to be, we must pay attention to it. How are you going to reconcile the breakdown keys between the themes with the budgetary and political breakdown keys between entities, to ensure that, by virtue of their principle of autonomy, these same entities will not retain a series of projects which, when combined, would not respect the overall beacon imposed by Europe? I hope I made myself understood correctly. Then you say that an independent evaluation of the costs estimated by the projects and the monitoring of their eligibility will be carried out. All right, but by whom? What's calling me is the adjective "independent." It is already necessary to travel many kilometres in this small country, which is a confetti, in order to find an organ that can avail itself of being genuinely independent, a fortiori during a process that takes place within the self-governments. No public debate has involved the public in any reflections on the future recovery and resilience plan. In short, Minister, how are you going to use this independent evaluation? We must have very strong kidneys to go back – through this independent group – to the political projects that governments would have wanted to promote and propose. We have already experienced this, with fewer envelopes, when it comes to sharing ERDF funds. I know from experience that few independent analyses can resist a ministerial will and, a fortiori, a government will. I would therefore like to thank you for reassuring us on these aspects. Still from the point of view of the method, I would like to know how you intend to articulate this plan with those of the different entities – Brussels recovery plan, "Get up Wallonia!" – also with the European Structural Funds, since they are additional levers. Redundancies, overlaps must be avoided. On the other hand, there is a need to ensure consistency and complementarity with the ERDF funds, the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), as well as with this other instrument, which until now has been referred to as European loans, which we know can represent huge amounts for Belgium. Indeed, as you know, each Member State is free to claim a sum which can be up to the equivalent of 4.7% of its gross national income, although it will then have to repay it. Again, if I am well informed, the Conciliation Committee has decided to postpone the loan it can apply for from the European Union. Why not use it now to amplify the recovery and resilience plan? Does the Belgian line consist of limiting it to European funds or are you going to commit additional resources? I would remind you that you have received almost EUR 24 billion in applications for just under EUR 6 billion available. Even though the previous government under Charles Michel had identified more than 120 billion, if I remember correctly, the necessary means to mobilise within the framework of the national investment plan that everyone had praised for the coherence, but which, by your own admission – and I would like to thank you for being honest when I asked you about it – is currently sleeping in a drawer, does that mean that the six billion correspond to the entire ambition of the federal government and more broadly of the Belgian house? That's for the form questions. That is what I am talking about in terms of substance. When you go through the document, read the intentions, you ask yourself additional questions, including opportune ones. First of all, I would like to make sure that companies with a social purpose are also within the scope and that they will therefore also be able to benefit, through the projects to be selected, from European funds and that there will therefore be equal treatment, regardless of the public or private legal status within the same sector which sometimes renders services equivalent to the population. Will the non-market be considered? This aspect is extremely important, especially since, in order to be effective at the level of the social strand axis, one must also be able to draw on the expertise, the network and the effectiveness of this sector. Beyond the bricks, it is in the human that we will have to invest! We have seen well, in the context of the crisis, that no economy in the world can function without strong social protection. However, this element is barely mentioned. Moreover, in order to benefit from these means from the European Union, States must also demonstrate their ability to contain public debt. Does this mean that we are already saying that we are going to go and that the recovery will take place through public investment while corseting so quickly and asking to show at the same time the plan by which budgetary control will be guaranteed, otherwise it will have the effect of Canada Dry of the Juncker plan? It is therefore important to see how, together with your colleagues, you envisage articulating the imperative of recovery with that of controlling budgetary trajectories. Here too, you will have to report to the European Union. How will the Belgian house avoid slipping? When we know the debt figures of the different entities of the country, a great warning is certainly part of the coin. Let's just talk about health care, to stay on this more social axis! I welcome the positive elements. You have placed e-health among the priority axes. It is important to give this dimension a boost. There is a need to broaden the scope of all the issues of digitalization in the field of health. There is an important issue in terms of incapacity for work and disability. There is also a citizen-patient e-box project, which should be further promoted. You also wanted to identify, in macro projects, research and development in medical practices and technologies. That's a good thing. But be careful not to limit the scope of action too much. It seems to me that we must be able to broaden the scope, to support innovation in the medico-social dimensions, in particular on the issues of loss of autonomy, the problem of citizens' dependence, and home care in the context of the ageing of the population. This is an issue that is not sufficiently highlighted. On the other hand, one element surprises us, which leads us to be, a priori, rather unfavourable. This is the creation of new hospital infrastructure. If this is a modest way of saying that investment plans will be able to continue to be implemented at the pace of investment plans decided by these regions, it is very good! I would point out that the powers of these plans, under the Sixth State Reform, now lie with the Regions. But the added value of the word, in this case, is quite relative. In a Belgian landscape which already has a density of hospital infrastructure at a square kilometre, in my opinion, which is unmatched in the world, I am not sure that one of the priorities is necessarily to create new hospital infrastructure and therefore, I would be interested to know the intention that was yours when you wrote this, at a time when the networks, which Mrs De Block has taken the initiative and which will continue with Mr Vandenbroucke, and which are in themselves a good thing, are on the table precisely to rationalise or optimize - choose the word you prefer! - the hospital landscape. You also mention the development of less expensive care solutions outside the traditional hospital. Three times yes! It is really an opportunity, at the same time, to recognize intermediate care centres, especially the convalescence centres. This is something I would also like to clearly draw your attention to, but what I think is missing is the issue of automating the rights of citizens and patients. I am sure that, as a socialist, you are sensitive to it. Many miss opportunities due to acquired rights, lack of knowledge of processes, lack of approaches. It is also the intelligent use of administrative databases in their online computer interconnectivity. In short, it is the fight against all this phenomenon of non-take-up of social rights that I think it is important to keep in mind. Still at the level of the social cohesion axis, I think we should talk, if you allow me, about teaching 4.0 rather than 2.0. The fact of speaking of teaching 2.0 already shows how much the delay to catch up with is enormous because 2.0 is already a bit has been, but it must be recognized that, in a part of the country at least, the digital state of education is quite catastrophic. It is true that the covid crisis has given, by force of things, an acceleration but a little under the aegis of the reign of the scramble, without really having a structured plan, in any case in the south of the country. It is also a lesson that must be learned, and we must not forget the elders who are little present in the plan. As far as the public health dimension is concerned, what you have indicated in axes 1 and 3, which have a more environmental transition-oriented connotation, is in the right direction. As for the public health issue around agri-food, from farm to plate, the development of short circuits, even if it is barely touched, there is a form of entrepreneurship to support that creates employment that is non-relocable and of high added value. And we can do three strikes between the social, health and environmental aspects with one stone, which will help strengthen our resilience. Let us not forget that this is the second term of the plan that must be proposed! With regard to axis 5, which refers to productivity, this element is probably not sufficiently developed so far. It would be interesting to combine this issue of productivity with the support of workers in their careers and job changes in order to have an offer of life-long qualifying training. It is now known that one of the major difficulties for the retraining and employment of the long-term unemployed is their skills profile. One cannot help but make the link between incapacity for work and incapacity, a statute for which the figures panic. As far as these axes are concerned, I shall return to the climate one which is relatively in line with the lines defended by the CDH. It should be noted for the anecdote (however, I am not sure that it is really one) that nothing is said about the future of nuclear power. However, this seems essential to me, regardless of the debate on whether or not to extend the reactors or some of them. Put your head in the sand on the fact that, even by choosing the most radical option of shutting down all the reactors, there is still an issue of expertise to be preserved, of know-how to be maintained in the country, because there is still the challenge of dismantling the plants! Don't think you just press the on/off button to set everything. Mr. President-in-Office is certainly also very sensitive to this issue in his capacity as a local elected representative, whose locality is close to a power station. I am also surprised that in the plan, only the energy renovation of social housing is put forward without specific measures related to the construction of new social and sustainable housing. Renovation is essential, however, there is still a quantitative need to meet. The digital axis is also relatively weak in terms of the necessary digitisation of industries. Nothing is said about industry 4.0, whereas all Member States are now trying to implement this German concept. Industry 4.0 aims to combine three technological innovations: automation without taxation, Mr. Lacroix; the Internet of Things; and artificial intelligence. All this in order to create new industrial and economic models of break-up. This ambition to once again equip our country with a true industrial strategy 4.0, like those major trends that are currently developing in the rest of Europe, is totally absent. It doesn't appear. It is regrettable, for if it is not an opportunity for a leverage effect of several billions, such as this recovery and resilience plan, that we can recreate a real industrial policy (it is not the result of chance that there has been no minister carrying this burden in our country for decades), the opportunity is wasted. I note, moreover, to the great pleasure of Mr Vanden Burre, who has just joined us, that the recovery plan explicitly resumes the development of 5G. The Colloquium Committee has, incidentally – and this is no doubt more the result of a will expressed by the MR and the PS (for the wink of the eye) – foreseen the introduction of smart kilometric pricing in urban areas. Sometimes, as a political formation, we can validate texts that set the stage for a policy, and immediately practice amnesia to denounce them on social networks. But I think you will have to reconcile yourself on these debates. Another element is the mobility axis. We're not talking about airport policy. If there is one sector that suffers heavily from the impact of the covid crisis, it is certainly this one, notwithstanding all the recent debates with Fedex and company. Airport policy is simply absent, as if it did not exist among the players in mobility policy. Worse: The first priority of mobility under this recovery plan is bicycle paths. I have no doubt that this is a structural element of soft and alternative mobility. I am the first to recognize that it needs to be developed. But are you really credible considering that at the national level, in terms of mobility, the first issues on which to put the means to straighten the head and improve public transport is the creation of bike paths? I have the feeling that it's getting shot in the foot in terms of credibility. I'm not saying you don't have to. Of course, these must be developed. But why not place more emphasis on the development of the railway? This seems much more strategic. Or on the airport, which we don't say a word about. Or on strengthening public transport. This is probably one of the elements of the plan in which I feel dogmatism, an ideological approach that has supplanted the economic realism of which you are obliged to be the guarantor. I therefore hope that in fact we will be denied. Last, Mr Secretary of State: let us not lose sight of the essentials and the importance of a macro vision in this recovery plan. It is true that the day when there will be no more scaffolding at the Palais de Justice in Brussels or our fridge will be interconnected with our car, we will certainly be very happy, but I am not sure that this is what will allow the Belgians to regain confidence in life, the taste to undertake, and the pleasure to consume otherwise. Let's not go back into the microphone! The objective of these funds and this approach of a country-wide stimulus plan is to avoid powdering but to have a real leverage effect. Please be the guarantor of the temptations that could be those of your colleagues and – I dare not imagine – of yourself to remain on a scale of structural effects in the redeployment of our economy. Considering the mobility aspect by speaking only of the bike paths while refraining from referring to the airport or the rail, is somewhat surprising. You need to make sure that this stimulus plan is something other than a Marshall plan, that it is a success of the employment-environment alliances, and that it is really a plan with an ambition that has been unsurpassed for many years at the federal level. We do not discuss this type of means every year, this type of strategy. In any case, you will find us at your side whenever there is an opportunity to change things. I may have been a sting or a rock in your shoe in this afternoon's debate on all these aspects. I did not do so for the pleasure of criticizing, but for the pleasure of drawing attention to elements that seem essential to us in order to have a strategy of credible recovery and resilience, which aims to be fair and which is not merely a reflection of arbitrations or weightings between political formations that are known to be numerous within Vivaldi. We must be able to do much more than the sum of everyone's interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, if I refer to our agenda, I should normally take the floor to ask my question, but by deference to the other members who must speak, I suggest that you hear them before me. In the meantime, the actual chairman of the committee may have joined us. I will then be able to intervene more easily as a member of this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u8	Secretary of State, I have a series of questions about this fundamental plan for our future, which is central to this government's policy. I would like to know the ambition of this government with regard to the amounts at stake; 5.9 billion are granted to us by Europe, which is a little more than expected. We know how it is distributed, so I am not going to get into this debate. Nevertheless, $1.25 billion is planned for the federal government out of $5.9 billion. Is this the only amount the government wants to spend on increasing investments in the legislature? [[...]] I hope you're holding your head to tell me that you've understood my question and not to say that, yes, that's all the federal government will do. But I'm waiting for your answer. In comparison with the EUR 5.9 billion, I would like you to be able to reconcile them with the objective of the 3.5% public investment that you are aiming for by the end of the legislature, I think. Indeed, the $5.9 billion is worth by the end of 2026 and the 3.5% target is worth by 2024, if I am not mistaken. How do you reconcile this? Indeed, if we make a quick calculation, we are very far from the count with the $5.9 billion. This corresponds to an annual increase of 0.2% in GDP. We can't reach $3.5 billion. In your policy note, you announced some guidelines, including transparency. I would like to remind you of this and see if you could do any transparency with regard to the documents you have produced. In particular, we are talking about the 300 project sheets, with a total of 24 billion, which have reached you. The press also echoed a 49-page document detailing the strategic directions of the recovery plan. We contacted your firm to get this 49-page document, and we didn't feel a real willingness to pass it on to us. In any case, we did not receive it. Obviously, it depends rather on you, which is normal because you manage things. My question is simple: could you send us this document? Could you also provide us with the criteria and methodology that will be used to select the projects? Will the Advisory Committee, composed of the Central Economic Council, the Federal Council for Sustainable Development and regional socio-economic advisory bodies, be involved in the selection of projects? If so, how? In general, what will its role be in the process as a whole? To be eligible for EU subsidies, investments must be coupled with structural reforms. What is the nature of these structural reforms? Are they already set out in the document detailing the strategic directions? To be concrete, I will take a particular sector: the railway. This is an important area in terms of investment and concerns the federal government. Can you already give any perspective on the railway? We have done a small exercise of looking at the level of investment in the railway in recent years and comparing it, for example, in the early 2000s. It wasn't the panacea already. We know that the multi-year investment plans had already been revised downwards from the original ones. But in any case, in the period 2001-2012, there were 2.3 billion euros per year of investments for the railway. Over the period 2016-2020, it was 1.5 billion euros. This means that investments in the railways should be increased by EUR 800 million per year just to reach the level of the early 2000s. Mr Secretary of State, do you already have any prospects in the field of railways? This, in my opinion, is an important subject. Moreover, the Minister of Mobility has a lot of ambition in the development of the railway. But he doesn't always know where the means will come from. It is good to have great ambitions, but it is important to have the means to do so. I wanted to ask you about that. In these investments in the railway, what will be the share of the "old stuff" recycled, and of the real new policies? Are we going to bring out the old dossiers, probably, like the Brussels-Luxembourg axis? We also know that in order to maintain capacity alone, 10% of investment is already needed. What will be the share of "old" and new policies? Still in the rail sector, the aim is to double the volume of freight by 2030. In itself, this is an ambitious objective, but there is a small problem: rail freight is privatized. Who's at the controllers? It's private. How can the government, the state, decide to double the volume from the moment when the actor who has the keys in hand is a private actor? With regard to productive Belgium, the fifth priority "Strengthening measures to improve the business climate and investment in Belgium", I would like you to explain to us what is being discussed. Is it a question of granting additional subsidies to businesses, of granting them new tax or social relief? In which case, this has a budgetary cost that conflicts with public investment. Is that what is aimed at improving the business and investment climate in Belgium? If it's just to set up small Belgian flags that don't cost too much, it's okay, but if it's a real, consistent fiscal policy, it's going to be in opposition to public investment. How do you cut this off? As regards the conditions for granting European subsidies, the recovery plan must respond to European priorities and country-specific recommendations, within the framework of the European Semester, the recommendations for 2019-2020. How should this be interpreted? Does that mean that we are going to end up with a policy that is generally a policy of austerity? It must be acknowledged that the European budgetary officer is imposing measures on the labour market, among other things, as well as the limitation of debt with a paradoxical injunction, which I have already pointed out to the representatives of the European Commission in the Committee on Finance and the Budget. On the one hand, they urge us to invest; on the other hand, they urge us to reduce the debt while generally, individuals, businesses and, in my opinion, also States finance investment through borrowing. Even in the European logic, this is how it happens. In the framework of the European Semester, the Commission tells us not only to reduce the debt but also to invest. It's a paradoxical injunction. How do you solve this paradox? Finally, you're talking about public investment. What do you mean by that? You are referring to the fact that 40% of investment should come from private investment. Do these 40% add to the 3.5% target or are they included in the 3.5% target? When we say 3.5% of public investment, I mean "public", i.e. strictly public. If this includes private investment, it obviously changes the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u9	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I will not repeat the introduction, but it is now clear to everyone. I start with the questions, some of which overlap, but others have not yet been addressed. Can you tell us a little bit more about the first design of the relance plan? How is the consultation on this design going? What are the next steps? Will you share them again with the Chamber, in particular with the Economics Committee? Will you involve us in this too, especially in the selection of federal projects? Can you give us an overview of the concrete projects that have already been selected for European support? Now that the money is divided, each body itself decides on the distribution of the money or is the choice of projects by the different governments still being discussed together? Is it true that the federal money will mainly be used for public projects? What is the distribution of public/private in these projects? What role do private companies have in the design of the plan? The plan should also encourage more private investment. How do you intend to achieve this in concrete terms in an economic situation which is still very weak? Do you also have a scenario in place in case certain projects would not be approved by the EU, which would ultimately give Belgium less money than promised?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u10	Secretary of State, there is no need to repeat the vital importance of the recovery plan – called "Plan for Recovery and Resilience" – which is one of the major projects of this legislature. In recent weeks, significant progress has been made in implementing the recovery and resilience plan. Firstly, the European Commission's budget for Belgium has moved up to 15% and now stands at EUR 5.9 billion (instead of the EUR 5.15 billion previously planned and announced). Next, the "project sheets" are now introduced. There are about 300 project sheets for a total budget of EUR 24 billion. As some colleagues have mentioned this amount, I would have liked you to confirm this information. Finally, I am surprised to see a lot of people find it normal that you reached an agreement so quickly, when politicians usually have the short memory and, for cases of such magnitude, without your personal resilience and that of the members of this government, we could have waited many more weeks before reaching an agreement. In this connection, I would not like to recall what is happening in Italy, where a government has even nearly fallen because its members are unable to agree. Our tradition is that we are in deep disagreement for weeks or months, even when there is a political emergency. You and your colleague have succeeded in reaching an agreement on a distribution key between the different entities in the country. In my view, this is a truly positive signal for the State, for the concept of governance and for our people, a signal that allows us today to focus on the substance, on what is really important and structuring, on the content, with the challenge of selecting the best projects and seeking overall coherence while aiming for a maximum leverage effect for recovery. Mr. Secretary of State, what was the methodology used for the call for projects? How has the current allocation key been achieved? What information can you give us about the projects submitted, particularly at the federal level? Without wishing to influence your answer, Secretary of State, I would like to have qualitative information on the quality of the projects submitted to your sagacity. How will the selection of projects be organised and what criteria will be defined? Finally, there is still a lot of work to be done and we will have to work quickly. Indeed, if my information is correct, you must give Europe a first draft before the end of January and you must also respect the deadline of April 2021. Secondly, we will have to continue to move forward, on the understanding that the recovery and resilience plan is only an important and major point in the recovery plan to commit Belgium on the path of structural investment of 4% of GDP. What are the next steps in the process? Can you assure us that this timing can be kept?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u11	Does anyone want to join the questions? It is of course either with the questions, or with the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u12	Mr President, I will make good use of my time and not intervene during the replies, as the Rules of Procedure state. Mr Secretary of State, a while ago, when we had the first debate here on investment, you promised that you would come back quickly to deal with a number of issues in more detail. It is good that you do, because my group considers it very important to discuss this. We see investment as the way out of this crisis. This will also be a very important political debate. Now all the attention is still focused on the health crisis, but soon it will continue to be about the re-launch plan, the investments that need to be taken out of the economic crisis. I have a few specific questions. Of course, there are always more projects than there are resources, which makes sense to me. How will it be dealt with when projects are refused at European level? What will happen if more projects are refused than the federal key allows? Will new projects be submitted? Is there some sort of list of priorities for this? How exactly does that work? I suppose there will be an evaluation of the economic, legal and social impact of the various projects and investments. Can this ex-post evaluation make a number of changes? How do you see that right? Mr Prévot said that the plan was particularly important, but that it should be part of an overall strategy for the coming years to help our economy get back on track. The framework is therefore wider than the plan itself. Over the past period, OECD and IMF economists have called on Member States not to save but to invest a lot. It was also necessary to use zero interest rates to invest in infrastructure. I would have liked to have heard your personal opinion on this. What is your analysis of the necessary fiscal stimulus for our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your constructive questions. I'm really glad to be back here. Transparency is indeed very important and I will do my best to try to answer your questions. This commitment also applies in the coming weeks and months. That is why I would like to come here regularly to report on our most important achievements. The development of the recovery plan was mentioned in the introduction of your presentations. This plan is indeed crucial for our country, for the "Belgium house" as our cdH colleague, Maxime Prévot, likes to say. We are still in the midst of the health crisis, a crisis that has a major impact on all those infected with the disease and which has mainly socio-economic consequences. We see it every day when we open the papers. It shows the profound consequences of the crisis for workers, businesses and the self-employed. In the short term, the urgency is always related to temporary support measures to avoid and minimize the damage caused by the crisis. However, and this aspect is relatively hopeful, I hope that we will remember it later as a time when we have been able to unlock some reflexes about public investment. The importance of what binds us as a society, the value of health care, our social security, and all of these public mechanisms to absorb systemic shocks have been recognized. That is why - and I think we underestimate it - the current crisis will have a real impact on how public policies are designed and the RRF is the best example. That is to say that the same European Commission, which, two years ago, blocked us in a fiscal straitjacket on public investment - Charles Michel's plan had been partly blocked by these constraints of the fiscal straitjacket on public investment - tells us that, not only does it give us the means (the 5.15 billion revised at 5.9) but it locks us in an extremely ambitious timing not only to carry out the plan but also to carry out the projects contained in the plan. I was with the European Commission this noon to discuss the same draft plans. There is a real complete paradigm shift that is the result of this crisis and I hope that we will learn from it. The message is a source of hope. As MP Lacroix said, this is a pivotal moment in the work process. You have seen in the press, in recent days, that we have achieved some progress in revalorizing the amount due to the adjustment of technical parameters. We have also done a work on the key that occupied part of the media space last week, but that actually hides a real substantive work, notably in the 49-page document you mentioned, Mr Van Hees. The broad guidelines of this plan will ultimately force different governments to choose their projects. On this basis, the European Commission, which was discussed with the representatives of the Commission at noon, was given an initial outline. I am pleased to comment on these aspects and answer your questions, which I will do cross-cuttingly, in seven parts. Part one: methodology. Several questions were asked by various colleagues about the methodology, the steps we have taken and the steps ahead. Part two: the famous question of the distribution key which is always interesting, although I admit that I am grateful to some colleagues for avoiding it. This is indeed a question that has not taken much time but which brings with it a lot of comments. Part three: the next steps in the process. Part four: projects and investment guidelines. In this regard, I am sorry to lift some of the suspense already, but it is too early at the moment to go into the individual details of the projects. Not because we don't have the projects, which are contained in the 300 sheets, but because the autonomy of competences is part of the institutional functioning of our beautiful country. We will explain this in the methodology, but for the time being the work is being done within the various governments that make the prioritisation exercise. It would be neither elegant nor respectful of our institutional functioning to talk about projects whose selection has not yet been finalized by governments. Part five: the macroeconomic impact, and in particular employment, Mrs Cornet. I think we should have that concern. This recovery plan is not here by chance. We don't have an opportunity like this every five years or even every ten years. It is therefore important to keep this macroeconomic impact in mind, both in the short term, for the shock effect of recovery, offsetting the negative output gap in the current economic situation, and in relation to what we want, that is, to increase the potential of our country in the long term, by structural issues in which the environmental transition is at the forefront. Part VI: Reforms; several questions have been asked in this regard. There is a lot of talk about investment projects, but in the RRF and in the recovery, recovery and resilience plan, there is also a reform aspect. Part seven: the debate centred on the six billion of the European Recovery Plan, although there is a broader concern about the trajectory of public investment and recovery policy. Several questions were asked on this subject, including those of Mr. Van Hees. We'll be busy. I will try to be as brief as possible to allow time for the debate. As regards the methodology and the state of play of the RRF process under way, it should be noted that the RRF process is an extremely complex partition because our country and its institutional beauty mean that there are a lot of actors to coordinate while each level of power (the Communities, the Regions) has a form of autonomy for the selection of projects. The process is also complex because, as I said, the European Commission is imposing extremely tight drafting timings. The final test is due to be completed by the end of April, which is just over three months from now, for projects that are to be completed 100% by the end of 2026 and 70% by the end of 2023. So we've set up a process, it's really complex, but it involves everyone. And here I would like to congratulate the work of all the teams at all levels of power, not only in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels, but also at the federal level. We work together on a common level. Indeed, the European Commission is very clear and it repeated it again at our meeting at noon: the most important thing for it is to have a form of coherence and a single plan for Belgium. There is therefore no question of having a juxtaposition of different chapters that would correspond to each of the levels of power. We started work in October, the day after the formation of the government, setting out relatively broad common directions. In other words, we defined what we were going to do and what we were not going to do in that plan. The main aim was to define the five dimensions (sustainable development, mobility, digital, productivity, inclusion). On the basis of these five dimensions and the characterization of the latter, we informed the Regions that they could enter projects. These projects don't come out of nowhere. They emanate from foresight exercises that had been carried out by the various governments. At Walloon level, these are essentially "Get up Wallonia!" projects. who came out. At Flemish level, these are projects taken from the "Veerkracht voor Vlaanderen" plan on which the Flemish government had worked this summer. At the Brussels level, these are projects of the Brussels foresight exercise. At the federal level, it was projects that were primarily considered and documented in the federal government agreement that had the advantage of being completely cost-effective. After the call for projects, there are about 300 projects with an initial amount of about $24 billion, but which is downgraded in real time. You are confident that there are ongoing adjustments to budget estimates of projects that are revised downwards rather than upwards because there is a continuing tendency to challenge budget estimates. You know the game. Some projects fall on the list, sometimes because they do not fall within the Commission's eligibility criteria. Constant round-trips are made in the working groups and with the Commission. At the beginning of the pipe, if I may say, because it is actually a great process with an imposing pipework, we had about 300 projects for 24 billion euros. These projects are the result of exercises carried out by governments. Some exercises have been conducted in a spirit of broad consultation and consultation. In Flanders and Wallonia, relatively large calls for projects involving companies, associations and social partners have been made. The call for projects took place throughout the process at VV' speed and lasted for about 15 days. On this basis, starting in mid-November, we started a thematic work within the five dimensions. We have held more than fifty major meetings. These were held by videoconference and involved representatives of all Governments on a thematic basis. It was pretty exciting. My colleague Anton here is piloting the mobility axis, for example. I attended a few meetings and found it rather fabulous to see the Flemish, Brussels and Walloon colleagues in charge of Mobility in the regional executives discuss with the federal colleagues to, on the basis of the projects submitted in the call for projects, refine projects and define a coherent set of projects. Some issues need to be addressed in a coherent manner beyond institutional entities. Mobility in Brussels is a good example. This must be done in a cross-sectional manner between the different regions, the federal government, etc., so as to avoid duplication. If we finance the same project a few kilometres across a regional border, it doesn't make sense. On the contrary, there is a need to strengthen complementarities between projects. This was indeed an iterative work on the substance of the projects, gradually starting from those 300 projects and 24 billion, which were already slightly revised downwards, towards a subset of more coherent, less redundant and complementary projects. In this sense, Mr. Prévot and Mr. Van Hees, you can be reassured. If I'm a UFO who shows up early last week and opens the newspaper, I feel like we're just discussing the distribution key. However, in fact, a work of productive background, quality and listening between levels of power has been carried out at the inter-federal level. If I allow myself to think a little more philosophically, the process of opening up reflection on related topics is also really interesting from an institutional point of view. This is a good example of a form of federalism of cooperation to which we could aspire in the institutional construction of this country for the future. At the same time, discussions were held on the distribution keys. This was included from the beginning in the methodological note we had passed in OCC (?) end of November: work mainly on content, because content must take precedence. But in parallel, we must not fall into a naively blissful reflection, where we would say that this does not matter. In the end, each of the governments has returned, and that makes sense, a larger envelope than the fair share to which they would be entitled in the Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF). To finalize the process, what each executive needed was to know on which envelope to prioritize projects. As has been pointed out - I do not have the political experience of most of you - the subject was settled relatively quickly. Twice two hours of meeting, a Thursday and a Monday, and it was folded. Why? Because the work was prepared upstream. We knew that there were different archetypes of distribution, according to keys. You mentioned the key to GDP, the key to population. In the end, the arbitrations were made on a balance between these different keys, making sure, and I will use the Prime Minister's word, "no one is happy". We had a good deal if no one was happy, that is, no one felt that he had, somewhere, won in the process and if everyone thought that he could or would have had more. On the basis of this agreement on the distribution key and on the guidelines which are the result of all the work in the working groups, which were validated by each of the governments last week, we submitted to the European Commission a first draft, as it is said in the Commission's jargon that I am getting to know, therefore a first draft. This afternoon we had a first exchange with the European Commission, which basically tells us that "it is a good job, it is good guidelines", but which gives us an injunction to continue the forced labour, because the deadlines are tight. At the same time, and at each stage, we are working to give priority to consultation with the Consultative Council of the Drafting Process, composed of the Central Economic Council (CCE) - mainly representatives of social consultation, employers and trade unions - and representatives of the Federal Council for Sustainable Development (CFDD), which brings together environmental associations or youth associations. We engage with these actors in exciting exchanges at all stages of the process. At the beginning of the chain, they provided us with opinions on initiatives which we have included in the drafting of the axes and in the first preliminary draft submitted to the Commission. Whenever we are in the presence of an intermediate document - such as the document submitted to the Commission - we submit the document to them. For example, we have recently conducted five three-hour thematic hearings with the members of the EAC and CFSD on each of the components of the plan, in order to ensure that the debate on these guidelines is discussed and extended. I now turn to the next steps. Now that the key has been determined, each entity is expected to prioritize projects within the envelope allocated to each entity. The Länder may propose projects of between 120 and 130 % of the envelope. We are assuming between 120 and 130 % because the European Commission may still give negative feedback for certain projects. Another possibility is that we will review the amount ourselves. So we will now prioritise projects according to different criteria. These criteria are extremely important to ensure that we select the best projects. A first criterion is whether the project complies with the European Commission's guidelines on transition and digital policy. A second criterion is the macroeconomic impact of the project: does the project provide an effective stimulus for our economy? Does it lead people to the labour market? A third criterion is the so-called'maturity', although I'm not sure if that's what they say in Dutch. Is it a mature, a full-bodied project? Can it be worked out in concrete form between now and 2023? This project of maturity is very important because the Commission is imposing guidelines on its implementation. We must therefore ensure that the projects submitted by the various governments are projects for which we are already advanced in conceptualization and even in implementation. So we must already have land control, etc. For infrastructure projects, 2026 is a fairly short time frame. We cannot afford to exceed these deadlines. In fact, the Commission made it very clear at noon that the financing would be based on the implementation of milestones - a name of the Commission's jargon - and if these are out of date, funding might not be granted. So far, we've talked a lot about the method. I would like to thank my colleague Maxime Prévot for having already gone through the axes in detail and for giving a cross-sectional view of the projects. A first question from Maxime Prévot concerns the percentages of allocations to know how, respecting the economy of each government, we are certain to reach these 37% of projects tagged "green" (linked to the environmental transition) and 20% of projects related to digital. We had a discussion in the Consultation Committee on whether we were going to impose this constraint on all governments. Would 37% of the federal envelope be allocated to green and 20% to digital within each government envelope? It would have been easier, but from the point of view of the coherence and impact of the plan on these issues (environmental transition, digital), it would have been stupid. For example, some environmental transition investment issues belong to the federal government. Energy policy, mobility policy and rail are elements that belong to the federal government. It is not stupid for the federal government to do more than 37% or for other entities to do less. That is why we are delighted to have put this process of consultation in place. This assures us that, on the basis of the test which the various governments will give 120 or 130 per cent, we will have to agree on the minimums of 37 and 20 per cent, i.e. that we must make a minimum of 37 per cent and a minimum of 20 per cent. From our intermediate point of view on how this happens in different governments and within the federal government, normally achieving these minima should not be a heavy constraint on the process. If I now go over axis by axis, we first have a first focus on climate and the sustainability of innovation with the objective of giving an impetus to a low-carbon society and finally defining a precise trajectory to achieve our 2030 targets in relation to the Paris Agreement. Today, we know where we're sailing, but the challenge now is to really define a trajectory year by year with carbon reductions and related projects. I regret not being able to enter into individual projects, but I undertake to come to this House to talk about it once the various governments have returned their trials. Moving forward now on individual projects would simply not be consistent with our work process. We will find energy renovation projects of buildings that represent a significant part. It is important in relation to our ambitious 2030 targets to work seriously on the energy efficiency of Belgian emissions. We're going to find projects on emerging technologies. Many projects are related to both the infrastructure needed for CO2 capture and hydrogen. Projects led by the Regions are looking at industrial applications of hydrogen. There will also be projects in the area of circular economy. The second focuses on the digital transition of our country. We're essentially going to work on four dimensions. Some projects focus on the digitization of administrative processes. It is known that some departments, including Justice, are lagging considerably behind in digitization. These are projects that have been returned. Then there are digital infrastructure projects, including some large projects. Reference was made to fibre optics and the connection of all companies to fibre optics in partnership with telecom operators as well as pilot projects for the deployment of 5G. I would like to return here to Maxime Prévot's quite justified remark on Industry 4.0. I do not think that the role of policy, certainly not in the RRF, is to finance private investment projects of upgrading industry 4.0, high-process production chains of private companies. On the other hand, ensuring that the enablers, i.e. the infrastructure necessary for the deployment of investments 4.0 by companies, are effective, is important. Fiber optics and 5G ultimately contribute to these industrial developments that could be the subject of other investment plans. We're also going to work on digital skills. We see all the profound changes that digital technology will bring about in the labour market and the necessary training of young people and workers in transition in order to obtain jobs linked - in any case, in part - to the digital economy. This is a key issue that needs to be addressed, primarily at the regional and community levels. A final digital focus is cybersecurity, with projects involving the federal government: Defence, Justice, and, in particular, information on computer security. Increasingly, we see that this is a field in which the State must invest if it is to maintain a form of sovereignty. I'm going to mobility. We will have seen that the bike paths are receiving attention – perhaps because the roads often go up to Namur... These projects exist, but for the time being remain marginal with regard to the full envelope. "Marginals" is not the exact term. Rather, they occupy a small part of the envelope, the majority of which will be allocated mainly to the rail sector. Mr Van Hees, I agree with you that when we look at historical investment programming, our delay in this area is important. To tell you that the Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF), this short-term investment complement, is enough to fill it would not be consistent. In any case, this will help to give impetus. When I look at Infrabel's plans, and I plan to the extreme without going into detail, I distinguish three types. The first concerns freight and requires an infrastructure capable of realizing our ambition contained in the government agreement, aimed at doubling the share of freight. If I were to "dodelin", to use your words, Mr Van Hees, it is because some of the operators concerned are, of course, private, but the necessary infrastructure remains public – such as Infrabel. As such, some of our plans are aimed at the port of Antwerp, which represents a central gateway to flows. In Brussels, the challenge is its access by commuters. To this end, Infrabel is thinking about a multiplication of frequencies and better serving small stations, which constitute a real Brussels wealth, but under-used. Therefore, could they not be used by changing lines and frequencies to reduce Brussels congestion? My colleague Georges Gilkinet is thinking about it. In Wallonia, we have real stakes in the maintenance of the network. You know that one of the difficulties of maintaining the network in Wallonia is that, in the current key, some maintenance work is forced. Wallonia because of its relief has much more works of art than Flanders. Maintenance costs are therefore proportionally higher per kilometre of track. So there are stakes of this kind in Wallonia. Regarding axis 4, indeed, there are health care projects. This point was mentioned by Maxime Prévot. In terms of increasing capacity, it is not so much a question of increasing hospital density which is, you are right to point out, already relatively high in Belgium. On the other hand, there are plans, particularly with Defence, to increase the resilience of our health care system, i.e. to provide a reserve of intensive care beds to deal with extreme situations, the coronavirus pandemic being by definition the most immediate example of an extreme health phenomenon. There are a series of projects to combat the digital divide, to combat inclusion, to combat poverty and to combat recidivism for the prison public. In terms of productivity, I will reassure my dear colleague, Marco Van Hees. There is no question at this stage of working on social or tax relief mechanisms. Most of the projects are, again, training and inclusion projects. It is a fact that we all share: the level of well-being in Belgium has been supported by high productivity. This productivity differential compared to our neighbouring countries tends to shrink and a collective investment effort is needed to increase productivity in Belgium, a term that I prefer a hundred times over the term competitiveness. This productivity differential is made as much by public investment in training and infrastructure as by investment in human capital by private entities and enterprises in training. There are a number of arrangements in the Vivaldi government agreement, particularly in the areas of training and investment in training, which are in this direction and essential for ensuring future well-being in Belgium. The fifth point concerns the macroeconomic impact and is part of the employment question put by Mrs Cornet. As part of a recovery plan, two macroeconomic impacts should be distinguished. The first is the short-term impact, in which several sectors will have to deal with depression in the aftermath of the crisis. The recovery plan therefore aims to reinject liquidity in order to enable these sectors to resume their activities. Thus, when an energy-efficient building is renovated, money is reinjected into the economy and work is done again for construction companies, for example, to change the chassis or boilers. The macroeconomic impact is therefore a stimulating effect. To use the appropriate terminology, we observe negative sectoral output-gaps in a few sectors, such as construction, and reinject liquidity in these sectors in order to reduce the above-mentioned gaps and ensure that the economy can again meet the sectoral target. This is a short-term issue. The medium-term challenge, on the other hand, is to increase the potential of the economy and to face structural challenges that have nothing to do with the health crisis, such as environmental or digital transition, mobility or inclusion, productivity, which predate the health crisis. In the end, the health crisis provides us with an environment conducive to public investment and the mobilization of large-scale projects to provide structural responses. Therefore, investing in energy renovation of buildings has a short-term impact in that it gives sectors jobs, but also a wider impact on one of the country's structural challenges of reducing CO2 emissions. In fact, the isolation of buildings has a positive impact on the pursuit of the objectives within the framework of the Paris trajectory. That said, the challenge of selection and execution is to maximize the multiplier effect. In this regard, I repeat the example of the renovation of a school. When renovating a school by installing an Asian-made boiler and employing posted workers, the multiplier effect will not be the same as if the renovation involves partly developed technologies at home and local labour, in regions that face the challenge of including under-qualified young people and profiles. That is why it is essential to get the sectors to work in order to anticipate the shock that will occur, particularly in the construction sector (which I met with representatives this morning). Finally, it is a question of anticipating the training and the mechanisms that enable our economy to benefit fully from this recovery shock and the multiplier effect. I come to the monitoring and evaluation on which questions have been asked, notably by Maxime Prévot. Reference was made to an independent evaluation body. The evaluation takes place in several stages. It is carried out in a collegial manner by the various governments that already filter the projects. It is also made by the European Union. The consultation with the European Commission shows that it will examine each of the projects and the impact of each of them. Indeed, for each project, we need to define the estimated impact in terms of CO2 reduction, the impact on the macro multiplier in the short and medium term. In addition, the Finance Inspectorate will conduct an evaluation of all final projects. As a stateist, I have the naivety to believe in his independence. But I note that Maxime Prévot has doubts about this. Subsequently, all successful projects will be the subject of an iteration with the Central Economic Council and the Federal Council for Sustainable Development, which have a consultative role at each stage of the process. This brings me to the question of the reforms that we are actually talking about little compared to investment projects. I see that this is a little less exciting, but, as the Commission has reminded us again today, the recovery plan has two components: an investment project component (which we have talked about so far) and a reform component. These reforms, as mentioned by Mr. Van Hees, must be part of the Commission's country specific recommendations to each Member State in the framework of the European Semester. The country specific recommendations of 2020 are very light. It's basically: get out of this crisis and do everything you need to get out of it, including all temporary support devices, without looking at anything else. The 2019 recommendations are a little more substantial. The good news and I am well placed to know that, having participated in the negotiations for the federal government, is that these recommendations were known at a time when most government agreements, both federal and federal, were drafted. There are, therefore, elements in the Vivaldi Government Agreement, in the Walloon and Flemish governments (we have put it this noon to the Commission) which meet at least some of these specific recommendations at European level. What we have said to the Commission is that we will have a dialogue with them about how detailed we will be in the framework of the plan we will be submitting to them. We will submit to them a kind of roadmap for our reforms and see if it endorses it. The discussion with the European Commission at noon was relatively productive. To reply to Mr. Van Hees, I have the weakness to believe that she has also learned from her mistakes, in particular from the austere response to the 2008-2009 crisis; that she will not afflict Member States with the same amount of austerity she had imposed on some Member States in the wake of the 2008-2009 financial crisis. The reaction is radically different. Moreover, the way in which the RRF is designed and how Europe has removed its own resources to allow Member States to invest tends to support this. Last subject: what is beyond the European Recovery Plan? The recovery strategy, in any case for the federal state, must be broader than the European recovery plan, both on the investment side and on the reform side. On the investment side - and you are quite right, Mr Van Hees, you have to be precise about the figures - the government's objective is to achieve 3.5% public investment (according to the common definition accepted by the National Bank) by 2024. Typically, Belgium is around 2.5% if one observes the last 20 years; 3.5% is the European average for the same period. To reach this 3.5% - I could send you the technical calculation - if we apply a linear growth of the investment rate, the investment increment must be around 13 billion euros over the period 2021-2024. This means that with the RRF's 6 billion public investments, about 50% of this amount is recovered. It is a work we are doing with the federated entities: it is essential to ensure that this delta between the 13 billion needed to reach this 3.5% and the already acquired envelope of the 6 billion Europeans is filled. This gap will be bridged by investments on the basis of own budgets, in particular by federated entities and the federal entity. It will be filled by certain arrangements already in the 2021 budget of the federal state - for example, the 500 million granted to SFPI to take direct shares as sovereign funds in companies with transition requirements. It will also be filled by companies that are consolidated in the public debt. For example, a series of projects on the deployment of networks, be they electricity or telecommunications networks, will be co-financed by public undertakings. Part of their investments can be taken, as long as this corresponds to the definition of the National Bank in public investment. As far as reforms are concerned, part of them will be submitted as part of the European Recovery Plan. Other reforms that contribute to the recovery will be integrated. When my colleague Karine Lalieux raises the level of low pensions or low allowances, she contributes to reinjecting purchasing power and increasing domestic demand from a macroeconomic point of view, particularly in favour of categories of households with a higher propensity to spend. In other words, it contributes to recovery. It is not by chance that this government has fought for the increased ceilings to take effect as early as 2021, because these increases, along with investments and other projects, contribute to the recovery through domestic demand. The third strand will be devoted to certain sectoral measures – as the government mentioned last week in its reopening plan – which will be taken to accompany certain sectors during the transition from non-differentiated support measures such as bridge law to temporary unemployment and reopening. On reforms, there will be a combination of several aspects. Finally, I will answer Melissa Depraetere's question, which joins Maxime Prévot's question. Our job is to manage 300 projects with a budget of €24 billion. In the course of all our iterations with the Concertation Committee, the Central Economic Council (CEC) or the European Commission, some projects are abandoned, despite their qualities. This is where it is interesting to have a consolidated approach, along with other means of debt or own financing of public entities. Flanders has a plan of EUR 4 billion, of which EUR 2 billion is financed by RRF and EUR 2 billion is financed otherwise. Wallonia is doing the same exercise as part of its "Get up Wallonia!" initiative. and, here, the whole is much wider: one part is financed by the RRF, another by structural funds such as the ERDF and one last from its own budget. The reason why loans from the European Union are not considered, moreover, unsolicited, is that the current financing conditions are such that Member States borrow at rates that are almost equivalent – sometimes negative – to those of the European Commission. It is therefore of little interest to borrow from the RRF, which involves several reporting constraints, in particular. If additional loans are to be contracted by the federal state or the federated entities, they will be contracted in their own right, without the compulsion and reporting obligations of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u14	Please excuse the length of my answer, but this subject is exciting, as evidenced by the rich content of your questions. I am obviously available at every stage of the process. We've just been through one in the last few weeks. We will soon come back with a plan that will contain the projects as such and the first directions for reform. If I receive the white-seing of the federated entities, I will obviously be happy to come and discuss the projects that will be retained in the next cleanup. This looks like a good series on Netflix: you need a hook at every end of the episode. We're finishing a first, and I'll be happy to meet you next time!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u15	Luckily, we don't have to pay to listen to you. On Netflix, you have to pay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u16	Mr. President, I'm very attached to the public service, so I'm Auvio.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u17	It's free then! Mr Secretary of State, thank you, the answer was very comprehensive and detailed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u18	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. It was indeed very thorough and interesting to listen to. I have some points I want to take with me. With regard to the investment for digitalisation, it was good that Justice will clearly become a focus, because it brings efficiency and savings. The government must take the lead to become more efficient. It is not just about investment, it is also about reform. It is very important that you point out that the formation needs to evolve. I have also heard that investing in government buildings is certainly important and that people and techniques from here will be used. I myself work in the construction sector and can only say that the key to mobilising people for the construction sector is to increase the pay gap between working and non-working. For example, we ourselves launched a project in which 12 people would have job security if they were to receive training. Only two people wanted to move, because they could only earn 50 euros more than by not working. This indicates that the key to working or not working and to mobilising people to train and get started lies in that pay gap. In retrospect, they may realize that it was an interesting choice, but mobilising them is very difficult. I am certainly satisfied with the points I do not mention. I take the train to Brussels every day to come to the Chamber. I don't have much to complain about as a passenger. The little stations you mentioned are not necessary for me because there is a very good metro network underneath. I am not expert enough on the subject, but I have read and heard in the press that it is not a problem with public investment, but that its return is not good. I therefore hope that we will not reinvest in things without return. After all, we all know that we must move towards a multiplier effect and not invest in things that contribute to nothing and that do not need to be done. We must not restore the economy but renovate and preserve what is good. Maybe the project was shut down because it wasn't very useful. So we must not go back to the previous situation. I was just talking about labor. If the social dialogue on pensions is discussed, for example, a pension bonus should be added to the pension bonus. After all, it is impossible to give a bonus but to place more burden on the working group. The government must take a very courageous stance in this area and initiate a new social dialogue. For example, I am talking about flexibility, which gives joy to everyone, both to employers and to employees. So brave decisions are needed. For the rest, I support a great deal of what I have heard. So I look forward to it and ask when the next consultation is scheduled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your long answer on this fundamental subject and for your willingness to come to Parliament at every stage, which is important for the transparency of the process, the selection criteria, the projects and the substance. I would like to react to a few specific points. First of all, you used an expression dear to ecologists, that of federalism of cooperation. Good if the budget and entity-to-entity discussions went well. Belgium is not a simple country at the institutional level. The partnership between federal and federated entities is important to us and I wanted to highlight it. This does not prevent us from having questions about distributions or wanting to value the role of our capital, Brussels, also in social and socio-economic terms. We would also like to know whether other investment projects from other entities had an impact on Brussels territory. You have given concrete examples, and I will come back to that later. A second point to which we wish to react, which will not surprise you, concerns the amounts dedicated to the ecological transition. You recalled the figures: according to European rules, 37% of the investment must be directed towards this ecological transition. For us environmentalists, this is obviously a minimum because we want to be as ambitious as possible and hope to do more. I can only encourage you and the government to go further than that 37%. We will of course come back to the cards in the weeks and months to come. However, I would like to point out that the investment envelope should also avoid having projects that are counterproductive in relation to this objective of ecological transition. Particular attention must be paid to this. The third point concerns the implementation of projects in the coming months and years, and the place of SMEs and businesses based in our regions. It is well known that in public procurement, particularly for infrastructure or other large-scale projects, it is not always easy for our established SMEs to participate in these activities and budgets. It is important to pay particular attention to this, whether at the level of award mechanisms or the public procurement mechanism – which should perhaps be reviewed. I would like to take the opportunity to bounce back from what our colleague Maxime Prévot said – and I agree with his speech – by mentioning that this also applies to other companies, which have a special status: for social or cooperative purposes, for example. I think it is necessary to take advantage of this to show that we can also develop another type of economic model. For us environmentalists, it is really an extremely important objective that in all these projects, these companies are also taken into account. My fourth point concerns mobility. Almost all colleagues spoke of mobility and made it a priority. That obviously delights me. I am particularly pleased with that. We've been a little caricatural on bike paths. This, of course, remains important, but it is above all the rail that is at the heart of the project. This has been said by many groups: we have never invested so much in rail in the last ten years in this country, in projects with SNCB, with Infrabel. I really want to stress that again. I also like the example you have taken, Mr. Secretary of State, at intra-Brussels stations. I am particularly concerned as a resident of Brussels. It's a real project that's been on the stage for a long time. On the day when we can have a real intra-Bruxellian network of stations that allows us to move from one place to another in the capital, it will really be a real step forward for fluidity and mobility in Brussels. The last thing I wanted to put forward, you mentioned it too, but it's kind of cross-cutting on all the projects. This is about training. It is both a federal and a regional jurisdiction. Without training, we will not be able to move towards ecological transition. The learning of new jobs, the transition in the types of jobs today, towards the digital transition too, towards the creation of local jobs. Training is at the heart of all these issues. And this must be our first investment priority in people, in young people, in the training of men and women throughout the career. In any case, these are objectives that we share and to which we will be particularly attentive. But again, thank you for your detailed answer. We will follow with great interest the evolution of the fact sheets, the projects and the background; for for us, this recovery plan, as I said, is at the heart of the redeployment of the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for having made such a long answer, even if you have seen it, and I apologize for that, so that it brings back and forth with other committees to be able to vote at the same time. I beg you to excuse my comings and goings. Thank you for this extremely comprehensive answer. What I remember is that you say that we are at a time when this recovery plan can have a major impact on our country. I'll be right with you. This is particularly important because it is an opportunity that we have today. We are facing a crisis, and, as we keep saying, a crisis can also be a time when we are reorienting things. We're in a moment where we have an opportunity. You said we won't have capital to invest, so big public investments, every five or ten years. I think we may not even have one in 20 years. We're really in a momentum. It's important to take the time to talk about the content and talk about how you will proceed to select the projects. Thank you for doing it. It is therefore an opportunity to change our economy, to reorient it and, in my view, to make it much more resilient, in order to improve the ability of our economy to bring income to everyone, to improve the resilience of the economy so that shocks do not weaken it too much. A resilient economy is also an economy that protects and includes, which is one of the cardinal points of the questions I have put to you. It is not only an opportunity to make the economy more resilient, but also to produce less CO2 and meet the ambitions of the Paris Accords. I would like to join you very much in your desire to have a shock not only in the short term, but also in the medium term, since we are in a time when we are reorienting the economy. I also hear your attention to the fact that the commission has learned from its mistakes and does not have an "austere reaction", to use your words. I thank you, anyway, for having this attention. With regard to the employment aspects, I would like to draw attention to three elements. First of all, I would like to talk about job creation. Making the economy more resilient is, of course, creating more jobs. This is in your government agreement. These public investments must accompany and strengthen private investment in order to increase the number of jobs. Secondly, attention must be paid to a number of elements. You talked about training. I fully agree with you that training is a fundamental element of productivity in a country. Investing heavily in training means allowing as many people as possible to return to the labour market. You have talked a lot about balance in terms of territorial balance. I will have the opportunity to tell Minister Dermagne again on the subject of jobs, but I would like to draw your strong and strong attention, yours and that of all ministers, to the balance in gender distribution. Men and women must be able to benefit equally from public investment, particularly in training, in plans to return to employment. It is very important to have this reading of genres because we know from experience that it is not obvious. I would like to draw your attention to this subject very much. There is also a balance between the different audiences: in the projects that will be developed, if we want a resilient economy, we must focus on the disadvantaged people who are remote or out of employment. As you have mentioned, raising the lowest pensions is obviously a stimulus, since it allows direct consumption to be reinjected into the economy. Thirdly, I would like specific attention to be paid to the quality of employment. It's not all about creating jobs. It is important that these are quality jobs. You talked about the detachment. I would also like to draw your attention to the status of the jobs that will be created. These are the few things I wanted to highlight, in addition to my thanks. I would like to return to this idea that this is an opportunity that we will not have for a long time; I am delighted to see the next episode. I guess it'll be aired on Auvio since that's what you're planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, I appreciate that you have taken a great deal of time to give us all the information you can. We could discuss the distribution of the money for a long time, but it has now happened and we must, above all, look ahead and move forward, because time is ticking. There are a lot of projects - EUR 24 billion - 300 chips, so difficult choices will still have to be made. However, there are clear criteria that we fully support. I am also pleased that the choices will be made in consultation with the different levels and that the projects must be complementary and coherent. You will also consult the social partners and the private sector. That is important, because the projects selected must also be supported. I look forward to the feedback on the first draft discussed with the European Commission. I hope that we will receive regular feedback on this in committee. It's a very important theme. We have five ministers on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, but relay is a very important subject for our committee. I hope that we will be able to reconnect at regular intervals and that no plan will be presented to us without having experienced the various intermediate steps, because then it will be a very difficult discussion. So I hope to see you regularly on our committee. I have two more questions, Mr Secretary of State. Firstly, in the final plan everything will be well calculated and the deadlines imposed by the European Commission will undoubtedly be respected. However, when carrying out a project, unforeseen circumstances may always arise, e.g. refusal of an environmental permit or initiated procedures against a project. It would be a shame to see a project die. In that case, can reserve projects be put forward? Every euro we can get from Europe to invest in our economy must be seized. So is there some sort of B list of projects and how will that actually work? Secondly, the macroeconomic impact is obviously important. We fully endorse the impact on digitisation and ecology, but we also need to know how many jobs a project generates or preserves. Is that clear on each sheet already? Do you have a visual on the total sum? It's about many billions, but what's the impact on the economy if we realized all the projects in an optimal situation? You yourself said that some projects will not be included in the plan, but will still be fished up to realise it. So these are useful figures, but perhaps it is too early to be sure. In that case, I'd certainly like to have them at a later date. I wish you every success. They will still be difficult choices, but we need the support. We don't have time to waste anymore, so just keep going. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u22	Thank you to the Secretary of State for his response. I think very sincerely – although it is entirely legitimate that most of the government's energy should focus on crisis management – that the recovery plan file will certainly count on the three largest strategic issues of this legislature. Moreover, it is not the result of chance that your President has had the end of demanding a State Secretariat dedicated specifically to this matter. The Secretariats of State often cover a cross-cutting competence or subject matter, but rarely a dossier. Now, in this case, the specific objective that has been set for you is to succeed in this task of reviving and resiliency. I also hear the explanations you gave on the ventilation keys, but, as I said earlier, this is not the element that moves me the most because it involves many papers on the left and on the right, small tweets, but it is not the fundamental element of the success of the project, because there is an obligation of result. If, at a time when one of the most serious health, economic and social crises of the post-war period will end, we are not able to unite in order to succeed in this recovery, it would be hopeless for this country. Therefore, your file represents a rendezvous of the possibilities and will reveal what we will still be able to embody in the context of an inter-federal approach – as you have pointed out – which is probably more proactive than the simple federal approach and probably less reductive than the confederal ones. However, we must not lose ourselves in common places either. Far from me the idea of being derogatory to one or the other and, of course, repeating the importance of human capital and the need for a skilled workforce is essential. We know that this will sometimes serve as a conviction, or as an alibi, as the case may be, to justify a chosen project. What is essential for me, and the Secretary of State has stressed, is to ensure the macroeconomic impact of the projects. You're right! The ability to meet the 20-37% criteria for digital and environmental climate issues must be calculated on a global scale. I dare hope to do the same naivety as yours in thinking that the governments of our regions and the federal government can easily give up any of their projects for the benefit of those of the neighbour. This is also a real rendezvous of the resilience of women and politicians. I am looking forward to the coming months and years, because, in my opinion, to obtain this type of arbitration, you will probably need more than two two-hour meetings. If it were simple, it would be less fun. I am well aware of the reasons why you have explained - I can find the well-founded argument - not using, at least at this stage, the instrument of borrowing, additional loans that have been offered by the European Commission, of which act! I still have a small regret: I have heard that you are counting on the amplifying effect of the six billion recovery plan by relying on the related regional initiatives. It seems essential to me that the federal government itself should allocate additional resources to amplify these European funds. Perhaps one would have liked to hear you put yourself in a pari passu logic: a European euro, a federal euro. If we seek to have a real boom effect for economic recovery, with challenges of structural reforms, I believe it is important not to limit ourselves to taking the six billion of Europe and that the Regions do with their complement and that's it! That will really be the minimalist version. I know you have more ambition than that and a stronger ability to convince. You have appealed to the Prime Minister for these two two hours. Do not hesitate to ask again if necessary! You have not expressly confirmed, except for my distraction, that the non-trader could benefit... I will be satisfied with the fact that you have not excluded him. I will therefore deduct from the fact that you did not exclude the non-marketer, that he can then claim to be a beneficiary. But I'd be more reassured if you said it was verbic. On the question of mobility, of course, I leave Mr Vanden Burre his freedom of speech, in a dihyrambic way, boasting the future investments in the rail industry. All Mr. Gilkinet's predecessors had to stand well. If at least it convinces him, it is already important. He must believe in what he stands for. Then imagine that on this aspect, we can sketch a smile! And yet, the stakes are real. I agree with you on the fact, and I am pleased to have heard it, that the issue of cycle paths was not going to appear as the first priority. But when we read the documents, it may be a form of self-satisfaction, we sometimes feel that this is becoming too predominant. Rail is essential. Cargo is, too. I'll give you an example. I'm not a suspect of sub-localism. It's not my area, it's not my constituency. It could even be yours: Charleroi! Such a strategic rail link between the Charleroi airport and the main stations on the Brussels-Namur axis would be a strategic structural challenge to link the Brussels-South airport, as it is presented, to the federal capital! I hope that it is with this kind of large-scale project that we will be able to come. And I'm saying, it's not my region, it's not my constituency. On the other hand, my conviction is that we need to make choices that are structural, structural in scope. On the other hand, I regret that, even in the answer you made, even though I had drawn your attention to this matter, not a word about the airport – including in what might be your constituency. There's this airport. But there's Zaventem too! There's Liège! I could talk about Ostend or Antwerp to a lesser extent. Today, the airport sector is dying. For post-coronavirus alone, it is necessary to be able to be at his bedside. But more broadly, everything about aeronautics is a sector in which we really have the ability to distinguish ourselves globally. They're real poles of excellence. I explain myself objectively and intellectually, and it is difficult for this airport dimension to be so absent from the reflections. Please. I have no direct gain, but sincerely, it is in my opinion a strong axis that should re-enter, if not in the first resort, the future analysis grids. This seems to me to be a strategic issue. As far as the evaluation of the files is concerned, you told me that the first filter would be the governments themselves, confessing yourself their relative difficulty of being independent. Second filter: the European Union. Then the services of the Finance Inspectorate, the Federal Council for Sustainable Development and the Central Economic Council. I confess to having hoped to hear from the Federal Office of the Plan. Either, it is by distraction that he was not appointed or, it is an actor who is voluntarily put on the bench. In the latter case, it is much more serious because I believe that it has an expertise and credibility which has not been taken in default and which must also be able to be sought in this evaluation process. I therefore hope that the Federal Planning Office will also be able to provide analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u23	Normally, you are only allowed five minutes for your reply!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u24	I mustn't be far from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u25	If we have no more light, it will become difficult! Mr Secretary of State, I hope that you still have some budget space for this building...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u26	I'll stick to it, to please you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u27	Mr Lacroix has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u28	Mr. President, have you forgotten me?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u29	No, Mr. Van Hees. Mr Lacroix was the last to speak in his capacity as President. Now I keep the order of passage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u30	Mr. Van Hees, don't worry! A famous person who died on the cross said that "the first would be the last and the last, the first". I am not used to quoting it, on the other hand, but it is still true that here you will allow me this joke. From jokes, ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State, to enthusiasm. A long time ago, I had not heard a politician with responsibilities like yours have such enthusiasm and a force that is not naivety, but stubbornness in one direction. You recalled that, through the health crisis we are experiencing, the world and Belgium in particular were in danger, but that this health crisis, which is a tragedy for many Belgians and many sectors, can be transformed into a real opportunity. Indeed, this is the moment when we never become aware of the important responsibilities of the women and politicians of this country, without shambles and with the principle of coherence that you have recalled. He has chaired the work of the various governments since October and, thanks to the anticipation capabilities of the federated entities as well as the federal government, has made it possible to present project sheets that are on the way. They stand the way because they are part of a comprehensive restructuring of the economy to make it work, and so that these fruits are used for a fair and just redistribution. I would like to draw your attention to this notion of enthusiasm. Indeed, in addition to the measures to be taken by the various governments and the European Commission, we need to find a perspective of confidence not only with civil society but also with our people. The fact is that people must feel concerned about this resilience and recovery plan. This will be a key factor in the success of this plan. Next to recovery and resilience, we need confidence. Mr. Prévot, I'm not used to teasing you, even if it may have happened. But I don't think that human capital is a common place. On the contrary, I think that, especially in the digital and digital transition, there will be a lot of people left on the road because jobs will be transformed, crushed. During a period of transition that can be estimated at ten - twenty years, whole families will be in trouble. Therefore, investing in human capital is not only economically intelligent but also about this opportunity to recreate conditions of prosperity for all, without forgetting anyone. So I don't think it's a common place. But maybe you didn't say it like that and I wouldn't want to make you a bad trial.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u31	No, as a humanist party, that's not what I wanted to talk about at all. Human capital is not a common place. What I want to avoid is the use of alibi arguments that are commonplace to try to justify that some projects that are less relevant than others would have been selected, while they do not have a macro impact on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u32	I therefore share your analysis, Mr. Prévot, since you are betting on the lack of bad faith of politicians. So we will agree on this. You've talked a lot about the lever effect. It's obviously capital. This lever effect cannot be a boon effect. Therefore, it is important for the Socialist Party that, through the impact-levier, the economy and businesses should be stimulated, without any help they could otherwise have received or because they had in their cards certain provisions which now can be easily financed, only for the benefit of the company. I'm going to talk about anticipation, about this world in transition. I will stress the concept of sustainable employment. Yesterday I was struck by the announcement of FedEx in Liège, which will eliminate more than 600 jobs, when it was said that it was necessary to invest in the logistics sector and that a large part of the life forces of Liège invests and supports all the logistical capital. Therefore, these jobs must be sustainable and not delocalized so easily. For my group, this is obviously essential. Finally, and I will finish with that, Mr. President. I hope I have not exceeded my speaking time. Mr Secretary of State, you have referred to the debt capacity of states and regions and you have indicated that even the European Commission is looking at economic policy in another way and that it no longer wants to repeat its deadly mistakes, in particular the imposition of austerity on hue and dia, especially in the most fragile economies such as Greece; a reflection must now be made on debt capacities. There I do, Mr Secretary of State, think you're right. Together with other colleagues, elected regional, federal or local, I published a white card in the press, where we were considering, perhaps in a spirit of reconciliation, just as after the Second World War, this ability to create a kind of perpetual rent set up by the states, in this case the Regions, where the banks would have a role to play. Here we have talked a lot about public authorities, the Commission, companies. We didn't talk much about banks. However, I believe that banks are an important factor in the recovery and resilience plan. Indeed, they could with the 20 billion savings collected in 2020, if they spent 5% of these savings deposits to help improve the debt capacity of states and leverage, such as public budgets. I think this could be an interesting collaboration. In conclusion, Mr Secretary of State, you made me think, mutatis mutandis, of Antonio Gramsci, a great socialist figure, not only communist, there is a famous difference! He said it was necessary to go from the pessimism of intelligence to the optimism of the will. I believe that we must have this way of working in mind because it is only by seizing ourselves from the real world as it is, but by wanting to transform it gradually, that we will be able to build a shared world that works for all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u33	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. It is clear that at this stage, you do not yet have all the answers. Obviously because we are not at the end of the process. As far as transparency is concerned, I understand that it might seem unfair to deliver the 300 or so sheets, since there is still a need for a filter of federated entities. On the other hand, I believe that the argument does not apply to the 49-page document. With regard to the direction of investments, particularly those on mobility, Mr Vanden Burre is no longer there, but I saw you punctuating when he said that we had never invested as much in rail as we have now. I understand that you nicked, since it was totally contrary to what you had told me a few minutes earlier. You told me that we would not reach the level of rail investment in the early 2000s, if I am not mistaken. I think you were referring to that period. This raises questions not in the face of Mr Vanden Burre's announcements, but rather in the face of the many statements in the press by the Minister for Mobility which show a great deal of ambition in terms of rail investment (train frequency, number of stations, etc.). I therefore have the impression that the minister comes with announcement effects but that the necessary billions will not necessarily follow. Mr. Secretary of State, you have given some interesting leads in the field of rail transport, but the Minister of Transport has communicated many more to the press. But you didn't mention them. I understand that a minister can have great ambitions and cannot achieve them all, but I wanted to know to what extent this was part of your possible discussions with him. As far as rail freight is concerned, you say that it is not only private because there is Infrabel. That is indeed a correct answer. On the other hand, this does not reassure me, and it adds to my first concern about Lineas' plans. I was wondering what take we had on this private company. You're talking about Infrabel creating new lines or extra furrows. The question is whether the private sector is going to use them. I am not going to go back to the very old edition of the great useless works, but is it not likely to have large unnecessary investments if Infrabel, a public structure, creates lines or furrows and Lineas, a private structure, does not use them because it prefers to concentrate on the most profitable and profitable lines that bring the most? What would be peripheral or not profitable enough would be abandoned. This poses a real problem in terms of investment strategy. Your answer didn't really reassure me. On the contrary, it created a complementary problem. On the reforms and the carcan imposed by the European Union, you tell us: "I believe the Commission has learned from its mistakes." I'm not so sure. Indeed, during the financial crisis of 2008, it dropped its ballast. Did she learn from her mistakes? No! After the 2008 financial crisis, she dropped the ballast for a year or two, then returned to her carcan as before, business as usual. The fact that Europe maintains its 2019 beacons and not just the 2020 beacons, which are actually much lighter, tends to show that it does not really go back on its fundamentals. I can also refer to the remarks made by the Secretary of State for the Budget in the budgetary discussions on Budget 2021. She then said: "In 2020, you are left with ballast, but after 2020, it is the end of recreation, we return to the diktats – she did not say it like that, I translate – classics of the European Commission". So I'm not as reassured about that as you do. On the amount of investment and that 3.5% of investment, which is a target to be achieved, you tell us that there are investments from your own budget. If I take the federal, I didn't find them in Budget 2021. When we discussed it, we also had a discussion on the multi-year. I didn't find any of that. All I found was the billion that corresponds to the 1.25 billion we have here, unless you say they're different things. Besides, it was in the interdepartmental provision. So we don't even have details. I don't see these investments on my own budget. I don't know about the Regions, but, in any case, about the federal government. You're also talking about the 250 and 500 million via the SPFI. Do you consider this to be public investment? It is public money, but the purpose of the latter is to participate in private capital. Do you consider this to be public investment, if, for example, the state takes 15% of the capital of a private enterprise? We may not have the same definition of public investment. In any case, the question should be asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u34	Mr Van Hees, I invite you to conclude. You've been talking for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u35	I'm finishing, Mr. President. With regard to the reforms that contribute to the recovery, you spoke of 3.5%. I do not know whether this figure has been mentioned in the discussion or whether this point has been closed. Revitalisation is obviously necessary. You cited the example of pensions. I could, for my part, give the example of wages since the discussion on wage standards is taking place today. I am also thinking of the public servants who will disappear as the federal government intends to eliminate 5,000 jobs in the public service. This is another discussion than the 3.5%. You say borrowing from Europe is more expensive than borrowing from the market. This is an inquisitive statement. You can't help it, but it doesn't make me more confident in the paradigm shift that the European Union would have incorporated. There is also a question that is still fundamental to investment and recovery. What is the acceptable debt ratio? I am not talking about the rates acceptable to the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u36	Mr. Van Hees, you had five minutes to reply. Now, you've been talking for eight minutes. You have to close.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u37	I'm at my last sentence, Mr. President. We had an interesting debate in committee with the Debt Agency, which cited a study in which it is advisable to increase the debt rate and not to reduce it. This is a reflection that we must have in the future, since the President is harassing me to close the debate. The question is what is the acceptable or desirable debt ratio.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u38	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your comprehensive and clear answer. In the coming months, I think we will certainly need that. Given the coldness that I feel in the Chamber, I think we will achieve the climate objectives. In your reply, it is not clear to me yet. In your answer, the public projects really have a very strong preponderance, but is it only public projects, or is there room for private projects? The role of private companies in this is not yet clear to me. Are private companies used as subcontractors in public investment? That's what I'd like to hear. My question how this can be an incentive for more private investment also remained unanswered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u39	Mrs Houtmeyers, that has kept you within the speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u40	Mr. Secretary of State, you have heard the replies. You can still add something, but it's not mandatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u41	Mr President, I thank colleagues for their replies. I would be happy to come back to answer it; following the next episode, as soon as possible!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic342x.u42	We thank you for that. Colleagues, as many of you wish, we can continue our reflections as we move forward. The debate is therefore not closed. We can come back to the dossier on a regular basis, which will be part of this legislative process. I thank everyone for this very interesting and fruitful debate.
