ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u1	Mr President, for my two questions in this topical and urgent debate, I would like to refer to my written preparation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u2	It is also a possibility for each Member to refer to the written text of his oral question. It saves time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u3	Madam Minister, as from 1 January 2022, the price of stamps will rise again. This worries me, especially in view of the decrease in the volume of letter mail. Will consumers not make even less use of letter post due to the increase in the price of stamps? Madam Minister, do you think that the price increase is acceptable, taking into account that the concession to bpost is well above the permitted amount and that the rising cost of the letter mail can therefore be compensated? Will you take action to counter the price increase? There would be one structure for the activities of packages and letters. Are you aware of the merger? Part of Post and Retail personnel will be transferred to Packages and Logistics. Will everyone be allowed to keep their jobs or will employees be fired? Who will lead the entity? Why does Amazon no longer trust bpost? Madam Secretary, you are striving for environmental, social and economic sustainability. Bpost charges a so-called density premium, which is calculated on the packaging density. A package of a certain size is assumed to have a certain minimum weight. If the package doesn't, there will be an extra charge. The companies or customers pay a density bonus if the space is not in proportion to the weight of the content. In practice, this means that the shipment of large objects that weigh little costs extra. For example, a toy store that sends four stuffed animals to buyers should therefore pay extra for each package. Smart entrepreneurs have now found something on that. They weigh up their packages by adding stones to it in order to gain sufficient weight. It goes without saying that the tax in this way completely misses the goal and is even counterproductive. More heavy packages mean more CO2 emissions per transport. Do you agree with me that the density bonus will go beyond its purpose in this way? How much does the supplement pay annually for bpost? How many packages are we talking about? Are there plans to abolish the surcharge, as has happened in the Netherlands before? If the packages are too large, they must be made heavier according to bpost. Are you aware of that? If so, do you agree?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u4	Mr President, I also refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u5	Madam Minister, I have not tabled a question, so I cannot refer to my written question, but I would like to say that I too was remodelled by the news that shops have to weigh up certain packages so that they would fall within a certain price category for shipping. This can't be the intention. I understand where that reasoning comes from. There is often literal and figurative air packed, with air bags in the packaging, and there is perhaps something we want to do now to limit that amount of air as much as possible. However, if we get the side effect of weighing up packages, there will be consequences. Then the volume is not reduced and then the weight increases. This leads to additional costs and additional load on the cars, as well as additional CO2 emissions. That can't be the intention. That is why, Madam Minister, I would like to join the questions that are being asked. I can imagine that you were also renovated by the news that certain packages are being hoarded with stones. I like to hear the ratio behind it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u6	Madam Minister, I have not tabled a question, but I would also like to intervene in this discussion. In fact, this discussion on bpost's core activities coincides with that on the sustainable development of the postal sector and e-commerce. We see that due to the great evolution of e-commerce there is a great pressure on the activities of bpost. Home deliveries have been around for a long time. I've been there since I was a kid. Then many things were delivered at home by artisans, for example the milk and that sort of thing. That has always existed. The difference is that competition has increased enormously now, resulting in an increase in false self-employment and in incredible exploitation situations. I've talked about that a few times. The process that runs against PostNL and GLS is a good example of this. I am concerned that, in the light of the coalition agreement, competition will increase further. There is now, among other things, a discussion about the payment of night premiums. I recently read an article by someone from the trade union who states that the problems of working conditions and the wages of parcel delivery workers will not be solved by the tax that the government wants to introduce. It's a missed opportunity to deal with those things. My questions to you are the following. Firstly, as a public undertaking, bpost should not set an example and ensure that there are good working conditions and that wages, which are nevertheless low in relation to those of other courier companies, are increased. For example, Bpost does not pay as well as DHL, for example, that is a competitor. Moreover, bpost also works with subcontracting for delivery. Madam Secretary, how do you see that? Would you like to ban sub-contracting at bpost? Can it be a good idea to consider parcel delivery, as the trade unions also propose, as a service to the population? In this way, a framework can be created to combat competition within this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u7	Anyone else asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u8	Mr President, I shall begin by addressing Mrs Vindevoghel first. Mrs Vindevoghel, your question is actually in line with the next topical debate, but I am prepared to answer it now. I understand that you cannot be present in the second debate. It's up to you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u9	Madam Secretary, it's your answer. As chairman, I have no decision to make on the content of a ministerial reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u10	Mrs Verhaert, you asked about the delay in delivery of the packages. More than 85% of shipments from outside the EU to Belgium are registered with IOSS, i.e. Import One-Stop Shop. These are registered packages that are not actually delayed because they are not subject to VAT to be collected by bpost. The process is highly automated and therefore fairly efficient. The consignments may be submitted immediately to the customs authorities for customs clearance. For postal shipments, information is sometimes still lacking, mainly digital information. Sometimes she's not right either. Then a manual intervention is necessary and that can of course take time. For most packages, especially in the IOSS system, there's not really a waiting time. If the sender gives incorrect or insufficient information about the shipment, delays may occur, which may be very different from expensive, depending on the solution of the problems linked to the timing and quality of the customer's answers. The list of IOSS webshops is not publicly available, it is only accessible to customs and VAT administrations. The large webshops, such as Amazon, AliExpress, Wish and eBay, are registered in the IOSS system. Bpost has previously conducted an extensive information campaign through various channels and is still running. This is done via a special website, social media and flyers in the post offices. All information on the new EU legislation on import costs on packages from outside the EU and the recommendation to buy from an IOSS registered website can be found on the FPS Finance website. Bpost started preparing the new regulations in 2019. For example, Bpost has abandoned the collection of the amounts due at the door by the postman. Now Bpost stores the packages in the sorting center, asks the consignee to pay in advance and sends the shipments to the customers after payment. In addition, they no longer open packages to inspect the contents. The new process is based entirely on working with electronic data, receiving from the sender of the post or self created using video encryption based on photos of the package labels. In practice, there are other initiatives that bpost has taken. The teams concerned are also sufficiently extensive to cope with the workload. I will come back to the delivery of the packages and the delays in doing so in the context of the second question. A number of Members have asked questions about this. I shall first answer the questions about the price increase of stamps, which Mrs Dewulf and Mr Freilich asked. I have also taken note of the decision to raise the rates of stamps from 1 January 2022. The increase falls within the legal framework and has been approved by the regulator, the BIPT. According to Bpost, the measure is necessary to compensate for the increase in costs per letter issued. You know the mail is in freefall. However, the fixed costs remain. As a result, the delivery of letters becomes more expensive. We will, of course, communicate more and more digitally. The price adjustment that bpost intends to make can thus continue to guarantee a high-quality universal postal service for every citizen, without the Belgian State having to contribute. After all, it is an alternative that the State pays, so that postal charges can remain the same. We have to note that the impact of the cost of letters compared to the total number of letters sent to households, SMEs or self-employed people has fallen sharply in recent years and is not comparable to such things as energy or telecom billing. At the same time, we all attach importance to an affordable postal service for everyone, especially for people who are not digital and still write a lot of letters. That is why I will check whether the current framework is still up to date. You know that a price cap has now been developed in the law of 26 January 2018 on postal services. I have instructed BIPT to evaluate the legal framework and to implement a benchmark with abroad. After all, it is always interesting to look at our neighbouring countries. In support of this evaluation, I asked BIPT and Bpost to engage constructively in dialogue with each other. I hope that this will answer the question about the rising rates of stamps. Mrs Dewulf, I come to the question about the merger of activities, packages and letters. As you know, bpost offers national and international postal and parcel services, including the collection, transport, sorting and distribution of addressed and non-addressed mail, of printed matter, newspapers and packages for its customers. Amazon remains one of the biggest customers of bpost. As you know, I pay attention to the social situation in this sector and its evolution. Competition in this sector must be healthy. There must be a level playing field so that all players in the sector can compete on an equal footing with each other. We follow this evolution carefully, both with new players and with existing players. We will certainly not hesitate to take measures to meet the conditions for such a level playing field. Historically, of course, bpost's activities are mainly linked to postal activities. We note that the traditional business model of a postal operator is being tested by changes in the market and by technological changes. Even though it brings challenges, digitalisation also offers great opportunities for bpost. Bpost doesn't just want and can't depend on classic mail. I'll give you the numbers again. Over the past five years, the volume has decreased by a total of 31% each year. Bpost therefore wants to secure the future in the long term in an economically sustainable way. This means that bpost must also have a strategy aimed at the future. This means that bpost wants to transform into a group with diversified activities. Firstly, it wants to be a leading logistics service provider for e-commerce in Belgium, Europe and North America. Secondly, it concerns the provision of public services to the public in our country, as described in the public service management and concession contracts. It's about the concession for newspapers and magazines. Thirdly, it wants to transform the postal route into an ecosystem for parcel and mail delivery. Fourthly, it aims to provide hybrid communications services, both physically and digitally, and contribute to the modernisation of the Belgian State by helping vulnerable citizens, namely by addressing the famous digital divide. As part of the transformation, bpost's management investigates and makes the decisions needed to implement this strategy and keeps bpost committed to its employees. With regard to Amazon, Bpost informed me that the contract with Amazon was not lost. Amazon continues to be one of the biggest customers of bpost and the two companies continue to work together. However, Amazon does indeed want to invest in its own distribution, as it already does in a number of other countries. In itself, this is not an isolated case, it is rather common in Amazon. Other e-retailers also often work with different delivery companies to spread their volume and dependence. So far some elements of the answer to this question. Then I come to the questions by Mrs Verhaert, Mrs Dewulf and Mr Van den Bergh about the weightiering of packages and the density bonus. That has surprised me, too, and I think we're all very surprised. The supplement in question is part of the standard prices and contract conditions of bpost. The prices of bpost are based on the weight in the first place, followed by a supplement for the volume. That is the system that is being used. I'll leave you in the middle to see if we need to review that. One pays for the weight first, after which a supplement is charged for the volume. The purpose of this supplement is to ensure that the web stores use as little volume as possible and use as little boxes as possible, which ensures a more sustainable transport. Adjusting the size of packaging to its content is an objective of the sector and an incentive to use boxes of the right size. Most major carriers use similar models, combining weight and volume. It is really the intention of this rule to make the sector of e-commerce more sustainable. This also applies only to contractual customers and not to individuals. That's a nuance in the story, isn't it? Bpost also does not check the contents of the package. Bpost can only limit itself to an observation on the outside. They look at weight and size. Bpost doesn't know if people put stones in the package or not. They can't control that. Bpost is aware that some items need to be subject to specific precautions, for example packages smaller than a shoe box or very large suits such as a desk chair. They are not covered by this measure. It is therefore standard packaging. Bpost says that this rule has positive effects, because many customers contact bpost to ask how they can improve their logistics approach and how they can reduce the volume of air in the packages. People who collide with the rule because their packages do not weigh enough for a given volume could contact bpost to view other solutions. That's what bpost wants to encourage a positive behavior change. I agree with you that the fact that some customers add stones runs counter to the purpose of this measure and makes us and bpost think about how the best system in terms of weight and volume can be set. So far the answer to these very pertinent questions. Mr Delizée, as I have already mentioned, bpost does not lose the contract with Amazon. Both companies intend to continue to work together. Amazon invests its own resources in distribution, as it does in most countries where it is present. This is not an isolated case, it is even a common practice. Other e-traders often work with several delivery providers to distribute their volume and dependency. A measure aimed at obliging parcel suppliers to cover the whole territory could possibly deter small and new parcel operators. We will have to consider whether it is appropriate and legally possible to impose such a measure. We must also ensure that there is sufficient innovation in the postal sector. For the moment, bpost is the designated provider in terms of universal service obligation until December 31, 2023. This includes the collection, sorting, transport, distribution of postal items of up to two kilos weight, postal parcels of up to ten kilos weight, and parcels of up to 20 kilos weight from Member States. Moreover, as a universal service provider, bpost is required to apply uniform tariffs and an identical service throughout the territory, but also to cover the entire Belgian territory for the removal and delivery of universal service consignments. Your question about the more binding legal framework for package delivery is very relevant and important. The parcel delivery sector is indeed growing due to the rapid and continuous development of e-commerce. This boom generates opportunities for employment, innovation and entrepreneurship. However, there are a number of risks, including fraud and social dumping. The parcel delivery sector is now characterised by the structural and widespread use of subcontracting by many postal service providers. The distribution of parcels, particularly at the so-called last mile level, is thus largely or almost exclusively taken over by a myriad of small and medium-sized subcontractors. As you certainly know, the distribution of postal parcels is a highly competitive sector with low margins, resulting in strong competition between postal service providers in the parcel market focusing on the costs and working conditions imposed on subcontractors. Thus, despite the growth of the sector and e-commerce and the sharp increase in the number of parcels, postal service providers are increasingly giving lower tariffs to their subcontractors, in many cases resulting in genuine social dumping (a race to the bottom). In order to protect workers and combat social fraud, it is imperative to regulate the source of the above-mentioned problems, i.e. the systematic use of subcontracting. It is the systematic use of subcontracting in the parcel delivery sector that results in a breakdown of social cohesion and massive fraud. That is why I am working on a bill that seeks to regulate competition in this sector so that it can be exercised fairly and is no longer distorted by unsustainable pressure on working conditions in the delivery of parcels. This will ensure the sustainable development of the sector, in the interest, not to the detriment of the weakest in the community. There is agreement in principle on this in the context of the preparation of the budget. As the details are still to be discussed within the government, I cannot provide information on my proposal today. We will begin discussions on this issue in November. It is obvious that we will come back with you later. I think I have answered everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u11	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u12	The answers may overlap from one colleague to another. It's normal that we don't repeat them three times. The time for the answer is already a little over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u13	I apologize, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u14	There is also limited response time for ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u15	Mr President, I therefore answer Mrs Vindevoghel's question. Mrs Vindevoghel, I have just mentioned the pressure of e-commerce, including bpost, which must remain in a competitive market, and the false self-employment associated with subcontracting with parcel suppliers. You understand that we will work on that. For me, this has to do with the social sustainability of the sector. It is on our agenda, together with ecological sustainability. You also mentioned an additional charge on fast deliveries. In that connection, I've been wanting to correct something for a whole week. That levy is not part of my plan at the moment. What I have said, and what I want to repeat, also for Mr Parent, is that for me the most ecological delivery is the most logical, and should also be the cheapest. If people can and want to wait 3 days for their package, which is delivered in the most socially and ecologically sustainable way, then a price determined by the market can be attached to it. However, anyone who wants his shoes for any reason will have to pay more for them the next day. I have always said that it seems logical to me that there is a difference. This is also the case in many other areas where the market of supply and demand plays. What is not logical, on the other hand, is that we as customers are going to find it normal that the price remains the same, as if these additional social and environmental costs do not have to be paid. Somewhere the so-called externalities must be taken into account. After all, they have an effect on the way in which workers are packing packages at night and driving vans around, not always on the right route because it is urgent. Something like that happens at the same price as normal, slower deliveries. As a government, we do not intervene in the price of the e-commerce market. That's not our job. However, I can create a legal framework that includes certain sustainability criteria, both in social terms and in terms of working and wage conditions, as well as in environmental terms. Then the market itself will decide whether there should be a price difference or not. That's the vision I use. You said bpost should be an example. That is true, and although everything can always be better, yet bpost does so well and....................................................................................................................................................................................... You said yourself that there should be a framework for the last mile parcel delivery. Examples of this already exist, such as the ecozone system in Mechelen, among others. There are also other methods which could be used to work with the sector for this burden mileage. Why should the suppliers not be able to organize the burden mile in common? The government can provide the frameworks, but they will have to do it themselves. That point is very high on our agenda. I assume, Mr President, that the next debate will give more details on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u16	I would remind everyone here that committee chairmen are being asked by the Speaker of the House, the Clerk and the services to pay attention to the speaking time of both Members and ministers during Question Sessions. As far as topical debates are concerned, I must say that the Rules of Procedure are not so well adapted. That's my personal point of view. When there are many speakers and questions, Members must also receive the answers. We are now at the replica stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u17	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. I am pleased to hear that you and Bpost were also surprised by last week's reports. Like you, I believe that it cannot be the intention of bpost to check the contents of the packages, but I think that a revision of the levy might be on the table here. I am pleased to hear that this is being considered. We want to achieve the environmental objectives, but this should not lead to such absurdities that lead to increased emissions from heavier packages, which are not in favour of the postal services either. As far as my second question is concerned, too, I would like to thank you for your comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for your full explanation. Now that the stamps are going to be more expensive, hopefully the correspondence will not go down any more. You say that stamps are going to be more expensive so that a quality award can be assured, but there will have to be enough staff everywhere. That's a problem too, but I'll come back to that later. I am pleased to hear that bpost will reflect on the more efficient functioning of the density premium. It's like a letter with a square size. Even if it is covered by the normalized size, one must stick more stamps, which I think is just as absurd a measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u19	Minister, of course, at this stage bpost does not lose the Amazon contract. But as I pointed out in my question, the choice of this giant not to rely exclusively on bpost services is a worrying choice - a strategic choice that can affect future choices. This leads me to worry not only about the historical operator, but also about service to the citizens and especially in rural areas. I'm an elected rural man. The danger is that operators will engulf the market in densely populated and "profitable" areas, with a shift towards multi-speed services. I can therefore only invite you to continue thinking about the regulatory framework that could provide an answer to that. This is a concern for the future, of course. The other point you mentioned in your answer is the working conditions of workers in subcontractors. You talked about fair competition. That is what needs to be put in place and encouraged, and at the limit, to take steps in this direction. Indeed, the reality is that they are false independents and unfair competition is in fact taking place. We must therefore work on this and I can only encourage you to continue along the path you have indicated, I imagine, with your colleague, the Minister for Employment, Mr Dermagne. I dare to believe that all this is coordinated with a view to a status for these workers who distribute parcels to these operators. Thank you. Receive my encouragement and we will wait for the budget to learn more about what is being prepared at this level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u20	Minister, thank you for answering all these questions on sub-themes that are so remote from each other. We discussed a lot of topics, but my questions focused on the issue of parcels and mail. In this respect, we hear the legitimate concerns of a sector that is under competitive pressure - you have returned - and, in this context too, subject to market decisions and Amazon-type actors. I also note the concerns expressed by Mr Delizée for the staff. We are moving towards strengthening bpost activity in the parcel sector, but we also know that there are parameters that are not measured. This can therefore be a cause for concern. On the final part, the answer you can give to these issues is social and environmental regulation. We will talk about the environmental aspect in point 2. But on the social side, I'm glad that you're taking the case with you. I do believe that we are at a turning point in these activities and in the evolution of bpost on this subject. I can only encourage you to work on better regulation to ensure healthy competition between players, to protect workers active in the sector, but also to protect bpost as part of the development of its activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u21	Madam Secretary, I would like to return to the price increase of stamps. You know that our country is very expensive compared to neighbouring countries. You may be surprised, but today it is cheaper to send a letter from Germany to Belgium, even if it is a foreign shipment. There's something wrong with that mechanism. I would also like to remind you that the distribution of letters is covered by SGEI, a service of general economic interest. That means that we pay for that too. I thought that the amount of the post for the implementation of these SGEIs was about EUR 100 million. That's unrelated to the newspaper concession. So we also pay for sending those letters. It may not be true, but on the bpost website I read: "In addition to the press concession, bpost provides a number of other SGEIs, including the distribution of letter mail covered by the system of port freedom." That might be another part. In any case, I think it is important, especially since it is a state-owned company, that we ensure that these costs do not become too high. If the price cap can be reviewed, as you say, we certainly support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u22	Madam Secretary, you say that you cannot allow the waxing out of those bricks in packages and that we need to look at how this is being solved. I am satisfied with that commitment. The answer you received from bpost and read here, however, convinces me less. You say the basis of the pricing is weight and volume. Then I do not understand that in two packages with the same volume, one of which is heavier than the other, the heavier is cheaper than the lighter. There's something wrong with that reasoning. I would like to insist that we have some clarity in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u23	Madam Minister, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u24	My question is about greening e-commerce. Madam Minister, you have often spoken about the need for sustainable e-commerce. It has already been mentioned in the previous debate. You have already spoken out about the abuses in package companies and often refer to social sustainability. I had some questions about that. Can you give us an insight into your policy on green e-commerce that you have explained before? How are the talks with the sector going? Finally, what role do you see for the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u25	Mr Prévot is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u26	Madam Minister, I am referring in part to the question put in writing, but I would like to illustrate it with an example taken from life. I order three items from a Belgian shop chain: a pair of bicycle gloves, a bicycle bell and a set of bicycle lights, three quality products, I hope. These are delivered at three different times. One product is in stock, the other products are not. I didn't ask you to have those products fast. I'd rather they were delivered at once. I sent that to that store, too, but it didn't match their logistics organization. Those are examples that should make us think. We need to find solutions or better logistics systems to organise deliveries in a more efficient and sustainable way. In that sense, I have asked you for some sort of numerical data. I don't expect you to read it all here. They may be delivered in writing. So I get some insight into the numbers that day+1 are delivered or on the day itself, the number of returns and so on. Some statistical data on this could help us find solutions for the entire logistics organisation of e-commerce.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u27	Madam Minister, this actua debate is actually about e-commerce and what we can do to deal with it ecologically. The services have added my question to the debate, but it is about the distribution of newspapers. Today, this is subsidised by you and your government amounting to 750 million. How can you reconcile that with the fact that you want us all to be more ecological with everything that has to do with distribution? The newspaper is polluting and is funded by the government. The number of trees that have to be cut down to print newspapers and magazines every day is huge, even though recycled paper is used. That paper could have been used for other purposes. The printing ink is a polluting product. There is also the distribution from the logistics centers to the whole country. You're saying that people might have to consider stepping 500 metres further to pick up their package at a distribution hub. That's a good idea. Maybe we should consider the same thing for the newspaper delivery. The daily merchants complain stone and bone. Parliament has already adopted several resolutions to support the daily merchants. The daily merchants are squeezed like lemons. Also the National Lottery gives them no more income. So this is a fantastic solution that is also ecological and logical. How can this government spend EUR 750 million to keep such a polluting distribution going?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u28	Minister, there is a lot of talk about greening e-commerce, mainly since last week through interviews, but also about the current debate in plenary last Thursday. As far as the different realities are concerned, each one has his own opinion: one hears the experience of his neighbour with regard to his consumption of goods or objects; one hears the tradition: "When I was little, I got delivered this or that." But what is e-commerce today and what is its reality? In a city such as Brussels, in terms of the traffic of trucks and vans, e-commerce accounts for 33% of fine particulate matter; 800,000 trips per week concern only the Brussels agglomeration. Beyond pollution, there is the phenomenon of amplification of car congestion which causes problems in terms of sharing public space. Indeed, these goods must be distributed at the home of the persons. It is also important to remember what is being said and what are the environmental issues. Beyond a proposal that makes noise in the press, sometimes in a controversial way, is what seems to me to be the main part of the debate that you recalled in plenary session: how to reconcile the boom in e-commerce with its impact on deliveries and the track of encouraging the consolidation of deliveries at local delivery points or on tours? For this, we must encourage the least polluting model possible, in particular ecological delivery which is not necessarily linked to "time delivery" or "H24". A reflection on pricing must also be carried out. Minister, what are your levers - you mentioned the postal law last week? What steps are envisaged in this regard? What are your goals? How can we encourage a tariff policy that fully respects social and environmental issues while protecting consumers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u29	Madam Minister, I will allow myself a brief intervention, especially since Mr Prévot cannot be present. You have indicated your willingness to integrate e-commerce into a more sustainable logic and we support you in this regard. In the plenary session last week, you made it clear that it was a matter of integrating the external costs of delivering parcels into the price of delivery. We are aware that a 24-hour delivery to consumers' homes has a social cost. There is more night work and pressure on workers. There is an environmental cost due to the traffic of vans, and an economic cost. We share this finding. You said there would be consultations with stakeholders in the sector. It is hoped that these will lead to concrete and comprehensive solutions. Account must be taken of all customers, small self-employed persons, SMEs, the workers themselves who make these deliveries at home and those in situations of dependency or for whom such deliveries at home are part of their autonomy and which must be taken into account. What is the deadline for the conclusion of concrete proposals? How do you take into account those people who are in need of independence that can be assured through home deliveries? Is it possible to make the last kilometer of delivery by an electric vehicle or a cargo bike mandatory in cities?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u30	First of all, let me outline the general context. As in most countries, e-commerce is growing enormously in Belgium. In 2010, there were 72 million delivered packages in our country. By 2020, there were 336 million. This means a growth of 366 % in ten years, i.e. almost a fivefold increase. The corona pandemic has only accelerated this trend. Between 2019 and 2020, an additional 44 percent increase in volume was noted. As we know, greenhouse gas emissions are one of the main causes of climate change. This is due to the consumption of fossil fuels. The sector concerned is still heavily dependent on this. In addition, the many vans in our street scene cause nuisance, due to traffic jams, noise and fine dust. This means that we need to involve the rapidly growing package and e-commerce sector in global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to which our country has committed itself through the goals of the federal government's sustainability agreement, but also through the National Energy and Climate Plan and the European Green Deal. I refer in particular to the European climate law, the European legislation resulting from it and the Paris Agreement. It is therefore a good thing that we are launching this debate in committee today, because the sustainability of the postal sector, and the expansion of e-commerce, is not a simple fact. There is no miracle solution that powers away all negative externalities of e-commerce. It is therefore an en-en-story, as well as a story that requires efforts from all actors, from consumers to postal operators and webshops. In addition, the levers that a government has are not limited to one level. So it affects all levels of governance, from European to local. We must avoid creating a patchwork of different measures, with a lot of uncertainty for the webshops and the parcel suppliers themselves. In addition, the context is also possible, because a one size fits all approach is not possible. For example, the impact of home delivery is not the same in an urban context as in rural areas. This has now been clearly demonstrated by scientific research. As I said in plenary last Thursday, I have no plans to intervene in the price setting of the market. The headlines of some newspapers made that appear last week. However, I did not say that. What makes sense is that the price that the market puts reflects the true costs and externalities. When you order in the morning something that is delivered in the evening or when you order in the evening something that is received in the morning, it has an impact on the worker who has to work at night or at night or on the vans that do not drive the most efficient route through that express delivery. Research by the VUB and the BIPT shows that people are willing to wait longer if that package is delivered more sustainably. I can give you the details of these studies. Although I have not yet completed a draft law, it seems to me necessary that the price reflects the cost of goods to society. If legislation states that there should be no social exploitation and no excessive environmental burdens and CO2 emissions in the parcel mail sector, then I can imagine that the most socially environmentally sustainable deliveries should also be the most logical and therefore the cheapest. When we look at the postal operators, we must strive for as much consolidation of suits as possible. Mr van den Bergh, you have set a good example of a situation where this is not happening. The speed of delivery may be an element that plays along, but the discussion should not be narrowed to just the delivery period. In addition, there is also the discussion about consolidation or bundling, on the outskirts of the city or in the city and delivery at home or in pick-up points or delivery machines. The way the delivery is done is also important. I am thinking, for example, of the cargo bike and the electric van. Not only the parcel suppliers have a role to play in this, retailers and webshops can also make customers more aware of the impact of a particular delivery method on the climate. A good example of this is Consciously Concerned in the Netherlands, that calculates the CO2 emissions from each package that is delivered. This is a very good concept to make consumers aware of the environmental impact of their deliveries. We can also include this awareness as consumers in the whole e-commerce story, by deciding for ourselves that we are picking up a package at a pick-up point in an environmentally responsible way. That is why I would like to deepen this debate in a broader context and involve all stakeholders. I therefore intend to bring the Green e-commerce issue to the federal government table and start discussions with my fellow ministers as soon as possible in order to identify actions that can be taken at the federal level. I also intend to take the following measures: - launch a process that will be dynamic with the sector to actively involve it and stimulate the sharing of best practices; - develop a strategy or roadmap for the postal sector and, by extension, for the e-commerce sector, so that postal operators can obtain the investment security they need for their transition; - initiate further studies and consultations in support of evidence-based policies; - creating a legal framework for parcel mailboxes, which will reduce missed deliveries and the number of kilometres to travel. As far as the mailboxes to our houses are concerned, the legislation only says that there should be letters and small packages in them. If we want to allow larger mailboxes to the houses, we need a regulatory framework for that. Study the possibility of adopting a royal decree to set standards for postal operators. The postal law, in particular section 3, allows the minister in charge of bpost, for example, to impose essential environmental protection requirements on the postal sector. As you will understand, this will require further study and consultation. In addition to environmental sustainability measures, I intend to take action to ensure social sustainability in the parcel sector in order to solve the problem of fraud and social dumping. This problem can also be addressed through e-commerce through postal law. In order to close this issue, I would like to stress that I will consult with the sector and already consult with the sector. Together with the BIPT we already organized two workshops in October. On both days about 50 participants were present, including the major post operators such as UPS, GLS, bpost, PostNL, CityDepot and DPD, alongside the trade unions, BeCommerce, Comeos, SafeShops, academics, governments and agencies such as Brussels Mobility, OVAM, the VIL, the Central Board for Business and the FPS Economy. In addition, my advisors hold bilateral exploratory talks with the major posters. They already sat together with DHL, UPS, DPD and bpost and soon do so with GLS, PostNL and CityDepot. I give this list after a specific question from one of you. Mr Freilich, your question about the press concession is somewhat unrelated to the other questions, although I understand the connection you make. I have already said in plenary, among other things, that I certainly do not want to charge a surcharge for packages delivered to the door. Your question as to whether this could apply to the new concession for the delivery of newspapers and magazines is, in fact, separate from the debate on e-commerce. You also know that I am not responsible for the press concession; Minister Dermagne is. The concession is issued; in the past bpost has signed on it and in the future it may be another company. The concession is therefore independent of bpost as a company. Of course, bpost is one of the candidates to continue the press concession. That is why I can also talk about it in this context, but on the substance I should not interfere too much with the dossier. That wouldn't be appropriate. You ask whether the distribution of newspapers and magazines would not be better done via pick-up points and only at the door of subscribers who do not have a pick-up point nearby. I would like to try to answer your question. Firstly, the home delivery of packages, as well as newspapers and magazines, will always exist. Some customers are less mobile or want to get something delivered urgently. Especially for a newspaper delivery you cannot wait 3 days, the newspaper must be delivered the day itself. The context is also important. In some cases home delivery is the most ecological option. That is the case in rural areas, in the city centre it is quite different. However, we are evolving towards the sustainability of the parcel sector, as we have discussed, through consolidation and sustainable delivery methods. In the parcel sector, we're at the beginning of the process. In the long term, the measures we will take for the packaging sector will also be applied to other sectors, including the distribution of newspapers and magazines. Secondly, the distribution model of newspapers and magazines is fundamentally different from that of parcel deliveries. With a parcel delivery several suppliers pass through the same street on the same day, with some customers even more than once in a day. Newspapers and magazines have that bundled. One delivery guy goes through the streets and delivers the consumer. Consolidatation of flows is a way to make parcel deliveries more sustainable. The delivery of magazines is consolidated with the letter mail. That in turn is an advantage of the fact that bpost currently has the concession. Another difference is that packages are unpredictable, while the delivery of newspapers and magazines to subscribers is predictable and can therefore be organised more efficiently and sustainably. Thirdly, since it is the responsibility of Minister Dermagne, I have raised my light with him. The specifications, prepared by the FPS Economy in collaboration with a law firm, have already been sent to the candidates. In order to ensure effective competition and to be able to grant the new concession in time, it is no longer possible to change further specifications of the specifications, even if we think that is a good idea. The concession of newspapers and magazines is not in itself related to the situation of daily dealers and their possible role in sustainable distribution, but is part of another discussion, namely equal access for all to the media. I think we should not avoid that discussion when it comes to the press concession. The service of general economic interest of the distribution of the press to subscribers at home ensures that the press can be supplied at a uniform and accessible rate throughout the Belgian territory, including for the most vulnerable persons, which would not be possible with distribution in the bookstore or digital distribution. As you know, we are going more and more to digital distribution, but there is still a digital divide. That is a reality in our country. Not all citizens have access to the Internet or have a smartphone or tablet to read their newspapers or magazines, as you and I may mostly do. This subsidy will allow older people, who are often less familiar with social networks or less connected than younger generations, to have access to quality information. Mr Dermagne told me that the sudden cessation of the press concession could give a great shock to the media sector itself. However, the government has decided to lower the concession ceiling year after year and to free up some of the funds to help the digital transition of publishers of newspapers and magazines. It has also been agreed that special attention will be paid to cooperation with the daily merchants. Finally, the amount you mentioned is, of course, the amount for a multiannual period, and I hope that I do not have to repeat that. That 750 million euros is an amount for x-number of years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u31	Madam Secretary, thank you for your full explanation. In last week's plenary, you yourself said that there is unfair competition in this sector. Wouldn't it be better to clarify the rules on bogus self-employment? Hopefully the customers will not go to the competition because the prices of the packages are rising. The system of bpost, such as Georoute, should also be reviewed. After all, there are not supposed to be two or three cars in the same street.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u32	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. You have outlined how e-commerce is rising enormously and pointed out the environmental impact associated with it. You also show that there are a lot of customers who want to opt for a sustainable alternative. I hear it from a colleague here, too. Not everything we order, we need urgently and must be delivered at home the next day. We can also get this at a neighborhood store or an ecozone. In Leuven, the city where I live, a pilot project will soon be launched around ecozones, along with bpost. I'm definitely looking forward to that. It is also interesting to look at what is happening abroad. You referred to Conscious Concerned in the Netherlands, which calculates the CO2 emissions of a package. All these things are good to make consumers aware of the CO2 impact of their orders. I also encourage you to consult with the sector. If they see this business case, they may be encouraged to do so themselves, but I do think that a clear framework needs to be developed. Yesterday I read this in the climate debate in De Standaard. The transport sector stated that it expects the government to give a green push to create this framework. I would also like to respond to what Mr Freilich said about the newspapers. He seems very much against paper newspapers, but I think it's important that people get the choice to read the paper on paper or digitally. We shouldn't be dogmatic about that. Many initiatives are already being taken to work paperless, including in the federal government, by, for example, reducing printing. However, we must be aware that digitalisation also has a footprint. For example, I read that the CO2 image of paper is not as large as we sometimes think and that the digital reading of a newspaper does not necessarily result in CO2 savings. I found those numbers in tests. A reading time of thirty minutes per day for a digital newspaper has the same CO2 print as the reading time of a printed paper newspaper. It would therefore be interesting to have a real look at the environmental impact of digitalisation, which also has a very large environmental impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u33	Madam Minister, thank you, of course, for your reply. There's a lot of work on the shelf. I am pleased that the sector is looking for ways in which this should be done. A good start would be that people on the webshop can choose whether or not the delivery is urgent, whether or not they can bundle the order, if it consists of several items, whether they want to pick it up at a point, or whether they want the order delivered at home. In the example I mentioned earlier, I did not have that possibility. Of course, everything starts with that. However, it may not be easy to require all web shops to introduce such options. However, I look forward to further developments in the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u34	Madam Secretary, we were just talking about air in packages and rocks in packages. Your answer is bullshit to me, however. You answer that it is not your file, but your colleague, Mr Dermagne. However, this is a very easy way to get rid of it. You're also a Deputy Prime Minister in the current government. So you can move the necessary forward. That EUR 750 million is indeed about one legislative hour. However, it is a huge amount. Unfortunately, I have not heard you say today that the way in which newspapers are distributed is not a good thing and that we want to get rid of it. I'm surprised I didn't hear that. Your party is called Green today, formerly it was Agalev or Anders Going to Life. Take the lead. You're in the government now. Do what you stand for and do not give such a large amount to a polluting product. Not everyone's here. However, give a subsidy to those people who cannot go digital, but not to everyone. Again, that issue is incomprehensible to me. On the packets you decide that you will have to ask people to think twice before they want a polluting product delivered at home, which is good. But what do you do as a member of the government? You give a huge amount to the lobby groups that have asked for it and to the post that has been behind the contract for years. The contact is also written according to bpost. We have seen this in terms of the conditions it contains. Last time, there was only one company that participated in the contract. That's probably not entirely different today. So I expected more from a green minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u35	Madam Minister, thank you for your various answers, which satisfy me. As far as e-commerce is concerned, I think that we are at the same stage of the debate we were able to hold on low cost air transport a few years ago. If we only focus on the price parameters for the users, I think we're going straight into the wall. We are going into the wall both socially and environmentally. Thank you for opening this debate, particularly on delivery times, and thank you also for wanting to amplify it and extend it proactively on the federal government table, in your matters as well as in a broader way, since this subject is not just about bpost. I think we are at a turning point in e-commerce, and we need to frame this revolution both socially and environmentally. This debate will come back to our face if we do not take it today, and we must face it without taboos. Finally, a newspaper is not a pair of shoes, it is a tool in the service of democracy. It is important for everyone to be able to deal with it on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u36	Madam Minister, we have just had an interesting debate on the frequency of delivery of packages. I believe that a similar debate can also be held on the location of deliveries. One of the possibilities I see to improve the service is, in addition to home delivery, also the possibility to have delivered at centralized locations. The stations are places that have a strong eye for this and that could strengthen the service. They are already highly developed into intermodal hubs, where hundreds of thousands of passengers pass by every day, mainly commuters. Some larger stations in the country today offer all this possibility via parcel machines, such as Brussels-Central nearby, Ghent-Sint-Pieters and Leuven. However, there are still a number of other stations where thousands, even tens of thousands of passengers come on the floor every day. Which stations are already packed with vending machines? According to what criteria have these stations been selected? How do you estimate the possibility of expanding the automatic network in the stations? Of course, this is a competence that you share with your colleague, Deputy Prime Minister Gilkinet, to whom I will also put my question. Have you discussed the matter with him yet? Do you see any possibilities for improvement? Two federal public companies are involved in this. This does not mean that contacts in this area need to be made more difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u37	Mr President, Madam Minister, as provided for in the seventh bpost management contract, the municipality of Havelange will soon have a bpost banking distributor. This distributor was requested in 2020, but its installation was delayed for scheduling reasons. Meanwhile, the Batopin consortium, a neutral banking distribution network, has contacted the municipality to install a device on its territory. Minister, can you tell me how many records of installation of bpost distributors are currently being processed? When will the bpost distributor in Havelange be installed? What if a Batopin distributor is installed in this municipality, if this installation comes after that of the bpost distributor? More generally, given that this can lead to a waste of resources and energy, has the Batopin consortium communicated its installation projects to bpost? How does bpost integrate the development of this neutral network into its distributor activity, which has been consolidated under the seventh bpost management contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Jadin, parcel vending machines are part of a wide range of practical and proximity solutions that meet a variety of needs, particularly in terms of physical presence in the country. They form, together with post offices, postal points and parcel points, a wide network covering. I would like to put the number of ATMs in perspective. This number has actually evolved from 141 in 2016 to 395 in June of this year. In the province of Liège, 22 copies have already been installed. The high number of parcel vending machines in Belgium is largely due to the launch of the Ecozone in Malines, the first urban area without issue for parcel and letter delivery. This ambition will be achieved by the establishment of a dense network of vending machines in 51 strategic locations in the city open 24 hours a day and 7 days a week, in addition to the existing withdrawal points combined with the delivery by a fleet of 100% electric vehicles and cargo bikes. As this is sensitive information in terms of competition, bpost cannot disclose information about future ATMs. However, at this stage, there are no plans to add a parcel vending machine to the mentioned network in Eupen. Mr Roggeman, a total of 37 vending machines currently operate in public places within 37 SNCB stations in 34 cities and municipalities. I can provide you with the list of those locations, if you wish. Packing machines in the SNCB stations and elsewhere are part of a wide range of convenient and close solutions, which provide a response to a range of customer needs. In particular, in terms of physical presence in the country, together with the post offices, postal points and parcels, they form a broad covering network. The strategy for the vending machines as well as their placement is determined by operational management. Of course, the two companies, SNCB and Bpost, have regular contacts. Such consultations may also cover the placing of vending machines in stations. For example, such a consultation took place recently between the municipality of Waterloo, the SNCB and bpost, which allowed the installation of such a parcel machine in the vicinity of the station. As I said, the parcel vending machines market in which bpost and other companies operate is an open and competitive market where price and quality are differentiated factors. Information on prices, criteria, current and future contracts for the placement of such vending machines is therefore competitive, business sensitive information. Bpost does not wish to provide information on this subject to the public. Mr. Parent, seven distributor installation files are in progress. It is expected that the installation of the ATM in Havelange will take place in the coming months. At this stage, we have no confirmation of the installation of a Batopin distributor. Article 10.7 of the sixth management contract stipulates that bpost undertakes to maintain a minimum of 350 ticket distributors in post offices and to ensure the presence of this equipment in all municipalities where this service is not currently offered by another financial institution. If a municipality has a Batopin facility, this article no longer applies. Batopin does not communicate its installation projects to bpost. If a municipality confirms the installation of a Batopin distributor in its territory, bpost shall take this into account in the application of its obligations under the management contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. I understand that for reasons of competitive strategy, we cannot plan on other projects to extend this excellent initiative from the comfort point of view of the offer of bpost to its customers, to that of the reduction of the ecological footprint. It is really important to look at these good initiatives, but also to continue to expand them. I hear this is part of the bpost strategy and I welcome it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u40	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I had hoped for a slightly stronger commitment. I understand that this is commercially sensitive information; I certainly hope that it does not say anything about the willingness of bpost to continue on the same track and to strengthen the network in the stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u41	Madam Minister, in reality Batopin's communication problem to bpost, not the other way round, raises two questions: the cost of bpost because the installation of a distributor has a cost, and a delay in the scheduling of bpost. Some communes are waiting, especially rural communes. That's a problem. You're not the only one competent on the subject. You're just one for the bpost pane. I would like to ask your colleague the Minister of Economy about this problem of communication between Batopin and bpost and about the consequences that there may be on the banking services to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u42	Mrs Thémont, thank you for your questions. Proximus is an independent public company free from its marketing policy. Proximus' participation in sponsorship actions is a choice linked to this policy. In this context, budgets for sponsorship are confidential information and cannot be disclosed for commercial reasons. I'm afraid to repeat myself because it's an answer that I have to give quite often. Due to the particularly competitive aspects of the market in which Proximus operates, this confidentiality cannot suffer from exceptions. That's what I'm told. Moreover, Proximus wishes to emphasize that sponsoring is only one of the elements of its marketing policy. Other marketing tools, such as product design, promotions, direct communication with customers, advertising, loyalty programs or participation in specific events, further contribute to its marketing policy. In the field of sport, the emphasis remains on the two most popular sports in Belgium: football and cycling, in order to reach and engage a wide audience. However, the focus is on supporting all fans and not specific clubs. Through the football federation, Proximus wants, thanks to these technologies, to co-develop opportunities for women, young people and amateur athletes. The second axis remains music and culture, always with a main partnership with the major festivals in Belgium (Werchter, Pukkelpop, Tomorrowland, The Ardentes, Francofolies, Dour, etc.).), the concert halls (L'Ancienne Belgique, Proximus Pop-Up Arena) and support for cultural heritage mainly in Brussels, such as Bozar or La Monnaie. Overall, Proximus's footprint extends to all regions of Belgium and wants to reach all fans with national brands and organisations. Its sponsorship strategy revolves around four pillars that it develops with its partners: the impact of the brand, the creation of content for its digital platforms, the contribution of unique experiences to its customers and prospects as well as the commitment to sustainable ambitions such as ecology or mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u43	Madam Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer, even if you do not have all the information. The liberalisation of public sectors means that public enterprises are now in a competitive position. They need to think about an external communication strategy if they want to remain competitive. In this context, it is important to ensure that these public enterprises pursue a neutral sponsorship policy, particularly with regard to geographical equity in the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u44	Madam Minister, in recent years bpost has cut sharply in the number of red mailboxes, distribution centres, post offices and counters. This pruning has ensured that more and more post offices in Limburg are closed during the opening hours. Of course, that is not possible for a public undertaking. There is nothing more frustrating than taking half a day's leave to pick up a registered letter and then finding that the post office is closed. More and more offices are therefore manned by only one person. If it falls ill or takes leave, bpost sometimes has to close the office because of a lack of staff to replace that one person. How many offices did bpost count in Limburg in the year 2011 and how many did it count today? How many of these are run by only one person? How many times has bpost had to close offices in the past year due to a lack of staff in Limburg? Which offices are we talking about, exactly? In what way does bpost decide which office is close to a situation of under-employment? Shouldn't bpost guarantee that post offices are at least open during opening hours? If so, what steps will you take to enforce that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u45	Mrs Vindevoghel had the same question and I will give you my answer as prepared. Like you, I attach great importance to a close service for our citizens. That is essential in what we are always discussing here in committee. For this reason, I have also chosen to maintain and modernise the network of 1,300 post offices and postal points with the seventh management contract between bpost and the Belgian state and to adapt it to the new needs and needs of our society. While physical presences disappear in many municipalities, such as bank offices, every Belgian in his or her municipality will be guaranteed access to a post office and a bank machine with this seventh management contract. That is an important and conscious choice. Belgium has 657 post offices, the rest are postal points. Of these 292 can be regarded as one-man offices. Closures of post offices are exceptional. In the first half of the year, 98.6 % of planned opening hours were respected, a high figure. There can, of course, always be technical reasons for closures, such as renovations, electricity works in the office or in the surrounding area that can lead to power failures, vandalism, street work, etc. In addition, there can be human causes, such as disease. As far as the latter is concerned, we come from a rather violent covid period that is not even behind us. It has of course also had an impact on the opening hours of the offices. From March 2020 onwards, Bpost has reduced the geographical mobility of its employees. They were assigned to a bubble of a limited number of offices, with the aim of reducing possible infections between working environments. For example, Bpost sought to ensure the well-being of its employees in combination with a good service. The downside is that this approach prevented the use of mobile shifts, which made it difficult to cope with absenteeism and keeping offices open. When infections were detected, a quarantine plan was put into effect, coupled with disinfection of the offices, to protect customers and employees. As a result of an earlier question, I have already informed you that the preventive approach of bpost on COVID-19 has proved successful in terms of staff failure. The closure of an office is also highly dependent on local conditions. If closure occurs, regional planning shall avoid the need to close a particular office for a longer period of time. You asked for exact figures. In 2016, the number of counter operators was 1,559 and in 2021 it was 1,459. In doing so, no account has been taken of the changes in function, tasks or designation, e.g. office holders who also take on contact points or services by specialised functions such as financial experts or credit experts. So there are now 100 desk clerks less than five years ago. This is attributed to an increase in efficiency, the shorter contact time with the customer and optimization. Depending on the staff situation and the needs of the service, Bpost recruits additional staff if necessary. To this end, the company pursues a broad recruitment, retraining and retention policy. Finally, the exceptional closures of post offices do not give rise to compensation, given the various alternatives available to the customer in the bpost network, such as other offices, postal points, mailboxes, vending machines, packing points, etc. However, Bpost assured me that it would continue to deal with letters of mourning as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u46	Madam Secretary, I had asked for figures for the last ten years, but I take it you don't have them. We see that jobs have disappeared in five years, which does not benefit the public. So we're really worried. I can, of course, understand that exceptional measures have been taken in the corona period, but we really hope that services will not deteriorate any more, especially in the small towns. This applies not only to the older generation, which is often said only to go to the post office, but also to the working class, which is often stuck during the day and is very difficult on the spot. We must not forget those target groups. I really hope you will invest in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u47	Minister, to close this debate on greening and parcel delivery, my question is about ecozone development projects. After Malines, Mons announced the creation of an ecozone last July. We also learned that a new pilot project will be launched in Namur next November. The malignant experience is promising. Despite the significant and continuous increase in the number of parcels, the bpost company guaranteed Malinois the distribution without broadcasts, and citizens' returns to the system were positive. The results of the ecozone project in Malines can therefore be welcomed. What is the timetable for the start-up of Montois and Namur projects? Are there specific characteristics for the three cities selected for the implementation of the pilot projects? What are the facilities provided by bpost in these two cities? Reference was made, inter alia, to parcel distributors. When can an evaluation of the experience in these three Walloon cities be carried out? What are the benefits-costs of the malignant bpost experience? What are the returns for staff? Are other ecozone projects under consideration?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u48	Mr Parent, thank you for your questions, which I will answer on an ad hoc basis. In Mons, the parcels will be delivered without emissions to the intramural part of the city in the coming weeks at a rate of more than 95%. bpost has 19 electric vehicles. Only the distribution of a few mailboxes served by additional tours, the evening and weekend distribution and the reinforcements required to process year-end volumes cannot take place without broadcasts. The arrangements for making available a dense network of unscreened parcel distributors are under consideration. In Namur, the electrical infrastructure is being installed and is expected to be operational next month. Electric vehicles are controlled. The shortage of electronic components does not allow manufacturers to confirm a firm delivery time. This is a fairly widespread problem. We expect to receive the vehicles in the first quarter of next year. In collaboration with the authorities to identify the best locations, the unscreened parcel distributors will be placed before the end of October - in other words, within a week. bpost works closely with Namur Boutique, a local association that aims to promote local traders and facilitate their access to e-commerce to make new services available to them. The cities of Mons, Namur and Malines are medium-sized and their centres are easily identified as having projects to improve their quality of life. In addition to the installation allowing the charging of electric vehicles, bpost wants to have in Mons and Namur a dense network of parcel removal points on the basis of its existing network of post offices, post points and parcel points by adding parcel distributors with or without screen. After a few months of operation, the experience of the ecozone project in Mons and Namur will be evaluated. A few months ago, the bpost management presented the results of the Malines Ecozone pilot year to the press. The delivery of letters and parcels by bpost in this city has yielded excellent results during the pilot period, notably in terms of reducing the number of vehicles/kilometres in the city, reducing CO2 and fine particulate emissions, reducing noise emissions and reducing traffic-related nuisances and road damage. The evaluation was therefore entirely positive. Factors and factors have been easily adapted. At the parcel dispenser level, distribution and filling are assessed as simple. Electric vehicles are automatic and do not require fuelling, which is seen as very positive by the distribution staff. Finally, in Louvain and other municipalities, discussions are currently taking place on these projects and their conclusions will be given during the maturity phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u49	Minister, thank you for your clarification because my sub-questions were numerous. I am pleased that all indicators are green for these ecozone projects. This bpost project is very interesting for the challenges of reducing CO2 emissions. I also welcome the fact that the Namibian experience is taking place in practice and also involves local economic actors in the development of the project. It seems to me that the future issue is whether this type of file is adaptable to other types of territory. Considering the bpost sustainability strategy, it would be interesting to see if other agglomerations with other city centre organisations could also be involved. If all indicators are green, both environmentally and socially (see the feelings of bpost staff), these experiences are to be expanded and continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u50	Mr President, Minister, my question dates back a long time ago. Several offices have already stopped because of the workload. Employees perform more hours while they are only paid for 7.36 hours. In general, staff are too short, both in mail and retail as well as in sorting centres, increasing workload. There are fewer staff employed for the same work. The conclusion is that the services are too heavy. Staff burned out, causing them to call in sick. Many newcomers quit and in different offices the fleet would be in poor condition. There's too little communication with the staff. In some cases, staff need to hear news that affects their task through the media. For what reason do the newcomers often drop out? Why is the workload so high? What will be done to reduce the workload? What's being done about the bad fleet? Why is there little communication with the postal staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u51	Mr President, Mrs Dewulf, workable work is important. I understand and share your concerns. The large and increasing volume of postal and parcel delivery for bpost requires a large number of workers, to which bpost pursues a broad recruitment, retraining and retention policy. In areas where there is a tension on the labour market and where there may be a temporary shortage of staff, various initiatives are being developed, focusing on both temporary reinforcement and structural recruitment. This concerns, among other things, an increase in the quota of job students, the launch of support by interims and the increase in influx possibilities, for example by attracting candidates for dual learning. In addition, bpost also pays great attention to information and communication. So I must contradict your last question. There are letters of information, information is distributed via bus or communication boards, operational communication is provided to the staff every two weeks and a brief briefing of the staff is provided at regular intervals. Bpost considers it particularly important that people stay on board and that newcomers remain. To guide them at their start at bpost many procedures and guidelines have been drawn up in recent years, such as a post school to learn the theory, newcomers counselors in large offices, trained coaches accompanying the newcomers, agreements on feedback and follow-up moments. Those appointments will be monitored and measured. The newcomers also give feedback about their welcome. That's how it can be adjusted. The state of the fleet is closely monitored by the prevention service and the syndicated partners. Bpost lets me know that, as far as the company knows, there are no complaints about the condition of the cars. If there are comments, they are more about the cleanliness of the cars, which are cleaned every two weeks. A vehicle that is not safe cannot be used. When a postal worker notices a problem, he must, in principle, inform the team leader on which he is assigned a vehicle from the reserve fleet. The cars are renewed every 4, up to 5 years. There is a 10% reserve for vehicles which, for some reason, due to maintenance or repairs, cannot be used. A vehicle which is not approved for the annual roadworthiness test shall immediately cease service. I understand from your question that everything can always be better, but this is the information as bpost told me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u52	I know bpost is engaged in a recruitment campaign, which I think is a very good idea. However, the postman's job is often underestimated. The most important thing is a good coach, a meter or peter. Because of a lack of staff or time it sometimes doesn't come from that. Language is also an important point. Some postmen do not speak enough Dutch to perform the job. They stay a few days or weeks, very exceptionally a few months. Their services then remain in place and should be distributed among the other postmen. As a result, the workload is increasing again: they need to deliver more mail at the same time. That is the case in many regions. There's a big staff shortage. There are so many elements that can be listed. The board promises to get better. With the end of the year coming, that will certainly be necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u53	Madam Secretary, Jean-Paul Van Avermaet, former CEO of Bpost, has reached a financial agreement regarding his departure. I'll go straight to my questions. Why did we choose not to include a safeguard clause in the contract between Mr Van Avermaet and Bpost? Wasn't the board aware of the charges against Van Avermaet? If he was aware, why was Van Avermaet chosen as CEO? Will a safeguard clause be included in the contract with the new CEO?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u54	Mrs Vindevoghel had a similar question and I have prepared a combined answer. You know that I have already spoken about this in plenary on 8 July 2021. Given the position of bpost, the appointment of a new CEO is an important decision for the future of the company, the employees, the stakeholders, etc. That process must be very careful and serene. Let me just go back to the past. Your question concerns Mr Van Avermaet. At the time, before my time, an open and transparent procedure was followed through Egon Zehnder, who was appointed as an independent third party by the board of directors to assist and advise the board's remuneration and appointment committee in the search for the successor of the previous CEO. When the contract was signed with Mr Van Avermaet, who was then selected, the board was not aware of the allegations made against him. These are for the period at G4S, prior to his appointment to Bpost. Bpost can therefore not comment on this, as they were not informed. As far as the termination of his contract is concerned, of course, Bpost has been assisted by experts. I can only repeat what I said in plenary. Bpost is an autonomous public body and the previous board of directors has chosen to settle the matter amicably for three reasons: firstly, to close the case for the protection of the company, thus not burdening the new board of directors and the CEO with this, secondly, to end the uncertainty about the final cost for the company which could be much higher in case of a trial and thirdly to limit the damage to Bpost's reputation, as well as the internal unrest associated with it. As you know, Bpost is under contract for a confidentiality obligation and cannot therefore comment on the substance. That would only feed the other side. As far as the amount is concerned, I can say that it will be made public in the remuneration agreement of 2022. So I'm not expecting surprises. If you ask me for my personal opinion, I can answer that I also find it regrettable. I want to make that clear. Every day, thousands of postmen and other employees give the best of themselves and the whole story has a bitter aftertaste for them as well as for me and you. With regard to the appointment of the new CEO, the Board of Directors finally appointed Korn Ferry after a market survey to assist the remuneration and appointment committee in the search for a new delegated director. The Board of Directors has urged Korn Ferry to carry out a thorough analysis of the candidates. It happened in complete serenity. The contract was prepared on the basis of expert advice. Let's be clear. The episode of the previous CEO of bpost and the end of cooperation is regrettable in the company's history. Bpost deserves better than those polemics and earns at the head of quality people, who are responsible and able to make the company evolve according to the challenges it faces. It is my ambition, together with the board of directors, to help carry out that mission in the most efficient and healthy way in the future. I hope that I have answered the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u55	Madam Minister, I still do not think it is possible that the various directors did not want to see that they were mistaken in Mr Van Avermaet's choice and that they were still involved in deciding on the future of bpost. Because Mr Van Avermaet couldn't go to America for months because he would be arrested, several top talents have resigned, which is very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u56	Madam Secretary, several parts of our country have recently been literally drowned. Short local and heavy rain showers will continue to occur in the coming years. The climate is changing. We better get used to hot and dry summers, and to possible heavy rain showers due to climate warming. bpost has a winter plan, but also a summer plan. This is discussed months in advance, but climate change means that there are now more rain days, which means that the postmen can't go on some roads by bike, by car, or on foot. I like to hear if there's a plan for heavy rains? What's that plan called? What exactly is provided for? Is there a playbook? Will there be backup for the postmen? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u57	Mrs Dewulf, the apocalyptic images of the human and material distress caused by the rainfall we experienced in July, especially in the east of the country, are still fresh in our minds. On 20 July, together with Mr Tirez and Mrs Hanard, chairman of the Management Board, I made an on-the-spot visit, which left a deep impression on me. Anyone who's been there at the time will agree to that. You will understand that at that time there was no roadmap for such extreme circumstances. I would like to thank the employees of bpost because, in very difficult circumstances, they did everything in their power to continue the public service of bpost. Both the teams and the managers deserve our congratulations. The scale of events then required a very specific ad hoc approach with rapid, centralised decisions in the most affected areas, including additional staff and resources where necessary. This approach was based on close consultation with the various local, regional and also national authorities concerned. Thanks to the organizational and strengthening measures, logistics operations could be continued and solutions offered to customers. For example, Bpost has offered to transfer addressed correspondence free of charge to the address where the victims were accommodated, thanks to a rapid adjustment of the Do My Move service. On the premises Bpost still follows the situation. As soon as houses, streets and neighborhoods become accessible again, delivery will resume. This is a dynamic adaptation of the organisation to stay as close to reality as possible and to allow the affected to receive their mail and packages at home as soon as the houses become accessible again. You also know that some 15 post offices have been hit hard and that the normal resumption has been delayed for months. I would once again like to express my support for the staff of bpost who have been personally affected and have suffered considerable damage. These people were able to receive practical and psychosocial support and a solidarity action was also launched by bpost. Other initiatives, such as flexible interest-free loans, were also conceived, as were continuous follow-up. I cannot answer your question about a plan and the future at the moment, because Bpost is still fully involved in the evaluation, cleaning up and rebuilding, but it is clear that, like all the actors in the affected regions, bpost will consider how it can make itself more resilient for the future in the event of such catastrophes happening again. Plans will be made for this in cooperation with the authorities. That is, of course, on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u58	Madam Minister, I am glad that bpost is working on plans, because the climate is changing. That will certainly be necessary for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u59	Madam Minister, I would like to put to you a follow-up question that I asked Minister of Work Dermagne at the beginning of July. A social fund set up at Sabena after the 1995 strike was stranded with contributions from the then syndicated cabin crew and managed by the three major trade unions ACLVB, ACV and ABVV. They had together established a de facto association for this purpose, which, in the absence of succession, has proved to be a silent association for years. The funds, apparently around EUR 1.8 million, are supervised by Sabena curator Christiaan Van Buggenhout, who has also failed to take any action in this regard. Although the ex-Sabena workers concerned have tried several times to fail the union, the issue has still not been settled 20 years after the date. The trade unions, which repeatedly remind employers of their duties, are exposed here. Moreover, in the absence of legal personality, they are difficult to bring legal order and there is impunity. We have put forward a proposal for this, but that is food for another committee. It turns out once again that unions can boast of a free pass to do and leave whatever they want. Minister Dermagne did not answer a number of questions and referred them to you. What pressure will you put on the trade unions and the curator to bring the matter to a speedy conclusion? Are you interested in the idea that those concerned should receive the legal negligence interest on the initial amount they should receive?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u60	Mr Verreyt, I have listened with particular attention to your question. First of all, I would like to say that the dossier is rather related to the three national trade unions and not necessarily to Sabena herself. Through social dialogue, among other things, the Minister for Employment and the Economy is in a privileged position in contact with the social partners. So I think it makes sense for him to call on that channel to solve the problem. I would also like to make it clear that not all public undertakings in the Belgian State are managed by myself, quite the contrary. I am solely responsible for public companies Proximus and bpost. I refer, for example, to FPIM, the Federal Participatory and Investment Company, under the supervision of the Minister of Finance, which is responsible for the management of several public companies and has stakes in public companies which are not within my competence. The complete list can be found on FPIM's website under the heading "own-account portfolio." In the Act on the Federal Participation and Investment Society, both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economic Affairs are supervisory ministers. Finally, I would also like to clarify that, apart from the division of powers, which prevents me from intervening, I obviously have no administration or expertise to follow up on the dossier 20 years after the date. I sincerely hope - and I take the question very seriously - that the finance and economic ministers will offer a solution through social dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u61	Madam Secretary, thank you for your meaningless reply. Of course, that also makes a lot of sense. The government is one and indivisible. If the minister you consider most appropriate to answer the question, namely the minister most in touch with the social partners, Minister of Work Dermagne, refuses to answer and sends me to you, then of course I will do it well. You are now reopening the umbrella and referring to the Minister of Finance. I will then put the question again in order to get an answer absolutely to my question. This is not how I come to a solution, but also to the workers concerned. The syndicated workers who still have EUR 1.8 million on their side, managed by the trade unions or not, and now in the hands of Sabena's curator, are still waiting 20 years later for their money. Of course, that's the real scandal. The real scandal is, of course, that I do not get an answer to my questions up to now, but that these workers have to wait for their money. You are responsible for this, because you also open the umbrella, just like the Minister of Work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u62	Madam Secretary, several board members leave at bpost. This weakens bpost, because every follow-up results in a loss of quality. The Management Board must ensure the proper functioning of the managers at the top. Madam Secretary, apparently it's been messing around at the top at bpost for a while. Is there a reason why the board members leave discouraged? What impact does that have on the future of bpost? Any internal problems at Radial? Will the successors of Mr Simpson take over his duties and continue to carry out their own duties? Or are we looking for two replacements? Madam Minister, do you intend to question Mr Tirez on this in order to explain the reason for their departure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u63	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u64	So here are my questions: What's your analysis of the situation? Do you know the causes of these departures? Are there any lessons to be learned in order to ensure greater stability in the future? Are there any other planned departures by the end of the year? Is there a specific problem with Radial? Are recruitment procedures already under way? What are the steps to be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u65	It is true that a number of board members left Bpost last year under the previous CEO. In the meantime, Mr Tirez was appointed on 1 July this year and the Management Board was renewed for more than half by the General Assembly. There is also a new Chairman of the Management Board, Ms Hanard. The new CEO and the new Management Board have immediately begun to work on a follow-up plan for the Management Committee. This was necessary as three members of the Management Committee have reached, will reach or have already exceeded the retirement age. It concerns Mr Cools, Mr Cloet and Mr Michiels. Mr. Cools is 66 years old and retired from Bpost as Chief IT & Digital Officer on 1 September of this year after working for over 18 years. During months, during the interim period of the CEO, he even continued to work until his 66th to accompany the transition in an area that is important for bpost, IT and Digital. Bpost thus ensures continuity of operation, so that there is no impact of the departure on the future of the company. It's normal for employees to retire at 66 years. Mr Cloet, responsible for Mail & Retail Belgium, who will be 64 years old next year, has also announced months ago that he wishes to retire from 2022. Mr. Michiels, the Chief Human Resources Officer, is going to be 65 next year. For all these reasons, the new CEO and the new Chairman of the Management Board are working on a follow-up plan. In addition, Mr Simpson, responsible for the activities in the United States, and Mrs Geirnaerdt, Chief Financial Officer of the bpost group, decided to give their careers a new twist. This gives the new CEO and the new board of directors the opportunity to accelerate the transformation of the bpost group into an international e-commerce and logistics player. Sometimes change may seem frightening, but it is also necessary to give a sustainable future to bpost. In the United States, bpost ensures continuity with Laura Ritchey (COO) and Gary Crowe (CFO), responsible for managing Radial US with immediate effect. It is also true that the Bpost CEO closely monitors the North American subsidiaries and visits them personally every quarter. Moreover, it is interesting to note that Radial US is in the process of meeting the expectations set at the time of acquisition. Radial US also remains an important focus for the bpost group that has strong growth ambitions and will grow Radial US both in size and profit in order to maintain its leading position in e-commerce logistics in the United States over the next five years. Len Geirnaerdt, CFO of bpost group, will remain at bpost until mid-November. Meanwhile, a headhunting office has already drawn up a long list of candidates. The mission of the new CFO or CFO will be to accelerate the transformation of the group into a logistics partner of future e-commerce in its own right for both customers and citizens as well as for staff members, and to align listening much more quickly with industry references. All this aims to strengthen bpost competitiveness. In this respect, the profile of the future or the future CFO will be adapted to put more focus on the performance and control of the group. The Board of Directors' Compensation and Appointment Committee ensures that research is carried out and will shortly evaluate the short list. In the meantime, all members of the financial team ensure business continuity. The many changes are obviously a short-term challenge. But I have no doubt that the management and the board of directors of bpost will be able to make the right choices and select the right profiles to support bpost in this important period of its transformation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u66	Thank you for the answer. Bpost urgently needs stability. I am pleased that the board has chosen someone like Mr Tirez, who has 18 years of experience. I hope bpost will have a bright future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u67	Minister, thank you for your many answers and clarifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u68	Questions Nos 55020642C and 55020646C by Ms Kattrin Jadin are transformed into written questions. It requested that the responses be received electronically. The practice is that members receive them in paper or electronic form, depending on the circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u69	Mr President, Mr Parent, thank you for this question. It is important to help clients through concrete examples that they can meet. You ask in your question why the choice is about smartphones and why this example is given by bpost on its website. Among the thousands of products imported from outside the European Union, smartphones and their accessories are among the most common online purchases. This explains the choice of bpost to give the example of this article. That's what bpost tells me. This website also indicates that the recipient can avoid additional import charges by placing an order from an online shop registered with the IOSS. We have already spoken before in today's IOSS committee. As an example only, he indicates that most of the major online stores, such as AliExpress, Amazon, eBay and Whoosh, have already registered. These are the big players we've already discussed and we know they're part of the IOSS system. Bpost does not give any indication that people should therefore buy on these platforms. These are the most widely used e-commerce platforms for consumers when buying outside the European Union. I hope this explains somewhat the choices made on the bpost site.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u70	Minister, I will respond briefly. This is a question of consistency with the bpost sustainability strategy, but I think that the answer should come in a broader context on information, on the social and environmental costs of e-commerce. We must therefore approach this issue in a broader context, but it is clear that there is a need for transparency in relation to the consequences of e-commerce choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u71	Madam Secretary, during the summer, the local station RINGtv reported on the recruitment of French-speaking postmen in the municipality of Zaventem. Following a strike at Bpost's distribution centre, it was agreed that French speakers could be recruited as postmen as a possible solution to the recurrent personnel problem. That problem cannot be denied, although bpost's recruitment policy provides for a further ripple of the Rand, which of course we do not want, and, above all, strengthens the image of French-speaking Brusselsers that Zaventem would be a bilingual municipality and, by extension, that the Rand would be completely bilingual around Brussels. As a public body, bpost must, of course, respect the spirit of language legislation. My questions on this, Madam Secretary, are as follows. Have French speakers already been recruited in the distribution centre of bpost in Zaventem? If so, how many vte's is this about? What does the Dutch language bath include that the French postmen should undergo? Do you consider that language bath sufficient to perform their function? Are these temporary contracts pending completion of the vacancies with Dutch-speaking staff? Do the French-speaking postmen have a bilingual certificate in accordance with language legislation? Is it intended to roll out this way of working all over the Flemish Edge if similar problems arise?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u72	The large and rising volume of the post and parcel delivery of bpost requires a lot of extra hands. Bpost therefore pursues a broad recruitment, retraining and retention policy. In areas where there is a tension on the labour market and where there may be a temporary shortage of staff, a range of initiatives are being developed, focusing on both temporary reinforcement and structural recruitment. Let me give you a few examples. Firstly, the quota of job students will be increased. Secondly, there will be support from various interims and exceptional subcontractors to assist staff in their work. Thirdly, influx possibilities are increased, for example by deriving candidates from dual learning, organising language training for candidates, by contacts with organisations that guide people to work, by extra marketing online, by distracting candidates for adjacent mail centres and by the agreement of the interim partners and by enabling an additional local interim office. Sometimes people really have to look for people. With these actions, Bpost focuses on a maximum Dutch-language influx. It must combine this with the mandate given to it in the 1991 Act on Autonomous Public Enterprises to become a flexible and competitive company capable of competing with private operators developing similar activities. Similar requirements also stem from the European directives on the liberalisation of postal services, which require bpost to operate in a fully liberalised market. You will immediately see that there can be tension between the two elements I have mentioned. For employees with a mother tongue other than Dutch, there are language showers, with the focus on postal jargon, which they get before they enter the workplace and language guidance on the workplace itself. More specifically, these language showers that have taken place in Zaventem and Huizingen are a first step in addition to screening in an intense process of practical training and language training. After the language showers in which the participants are taught key phrases for communication with colleagues and customers about many concrete situations of service, an internship day and a language test follows. If that is positive, a welcome day and a training course in the post school and the post office school will follow, followed by a training course with a coach and a supervisor in concrete activities of bpost. Then a language training course takes place for 15 weeks. There are several evaluation moments in that trajectory. Zaventem's post office has no permanent French-speaking staff. I have already mentioned this in an answer to a written question from Mrs Dewulf.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u73	Madam Secretary, I am pleased that the language bath has been extended to 15 weeks. I was a little scared when you only spoke of language showers at first, but fortunately there was a whole sequel. That reassures me. We know that the policy of bpost today is that postmen in Flanders or Wallonia may only speak the language of the sub-area in which they are located. In Flanders only Dutch can be spoken, in Wallonia only French. They may make exceptions to the presentation of the identity card of customers who can prove that they belong to the other language territory. As a public undertaking, we must make a commitment to this with regard to our employees. This is about the Edge of Brussels. In Wallonia too, only French speakers or people with sufficient knowledge of French and Flanders should be at work with sufficient knowledge of Dutch. It's not easy getting people to work. That is a general problem, but it might be useful to carry out a thorough campaign on the training of postman. Perhaps that will put some more Dutch speakers to work. There are a lot of unemployed people and I think there is a possibility of getting some more to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u74	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The language bath doesn't work in that city. As I said earlier, there are too few staff. I know bpost does her best to attract staff. After all, the inhabitants of Zaventem received a Dutch-language leaflet on the bus. If an older person waiting for his pension opens the door and doesn't understand the language of the caller, he may get scared. People are also so afraid to open the door in these corona times. There must therefore certainly be improvement with Dutch-speaking staff in Flanders and French-speaking in Wallonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u75	Mr President, Mr De Smet, it is true that Belgium received two notices last November concerning the transposition of the directives on interoperability and railway safety. These directives have been called the technical pillar of the fourth railway package. These notices do not concern an alleged lack of independence of the investigative body, but rather a late transposition of the provisions on the technical part of the fourth package. Delays have been made in the preparation of legal and regulatory texts following, among other things, the long period of current affairs we have experienced in our country. As soon as Minister Gilkinet and I entered the service, we caught up with the lost time. The House of Representatives adopted in plenary session the law transposing the fourth railway package on 14 January. Various royal decrees were then taken. Today, Belgium has fully transposed the fourth railway package and has notified the European Commission of five texts for the interoperability directives and six texts for the safety directive. The notice you mention therefore seems to me to be well on the way to official classification. With regard to your second question, we have been informed by the principal investigator of the article in Médor. A first meeting was convened with the services on 23 September for an explanation of the allegations contained in this article. The lead investigator has confirmed to us that all accidents and incidents entered daily into the railway accident and incident investigation body database are reported, not only by the infrastructure manager, but also by the railway undertakings concerned. The same applies to the incident of 27 June 2021. It is regrettable, it must be said, that the author of the article did not use enough sources and did not contact the research department in advance. The article would have been more objective and truthful. Finally, with regard to your last question, pursuant to the Act of 30 August 2013, article 111, there is no obligation to initiate an investigation following an incident. The initiation of an investigation is based on the procedure, regardless of whether it is a railway undertaking or the infrastructure manager. As a reminder, the investigation report on the incident that took place in Comblain on September 6, 2018 only concerned Infrabel's manager.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u76	Madam Minister, thank you for your full answer, which we will take the time to analyse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u77	Mr President, Madam Minister, recently, the operator Proximus launched, in partnership with Belfius, the Banx banking application, which is intended to be more local and sustainable. In concrete terms, it is an application that allows us to track our receipts and expenses, in the way of a traditional banking application, but also allows us to know the carbon balance associated with our online purchases. In other words, this application allows us to measure the environmental weight of our purchases on the Internet, whether we are customers of Proximus and Belfius or not. The idea is to allow citizens to shop online, while at the same time becoming aware of their carbon footprint. The objective is of course commendable. And while we can be pleased to see these two Belgian companies taking such an initiative in the digital sector, it raises some questions. Minister, how does this application work? How can we really calculate the environmental weight of each purchase, and with what precision? Can we really trust these numbers? To create an account on this application, a lot of private information is required. How is this information used and how is it protected? How many downloads of the app have been saved so far? Have there been any feedback on its use and if so, are they positive? Have any bugs been reported?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u78	Mr President, Mrs Zanchetta, I can inform you that Banx is working in partnership with the Swedish company Doconomy to create a personal CO2 dashboard for each user. The CO2 dashboard is created using the methodology of the Aland Doconomy Index. This index calculates the impact of each transaction using an average footprint for each sector represented in the index. For example, the index indicates whether consumers make purchases at a service station or at a florist, but it does not currently calculate emissions for a specific product, in part because climate data are not currently available in product-level transaction systems, and partly because of consumer privacy concerns. Currently, Banx customers can track the calculation of their carbon footprint, based on their financial transactions, in the Banx application, both at the category and sub-category level. The main objective of the CO2 Scoreboard is to raise consumer awareness and give consumers an overview of their CO2 footprint. In this sense, it is more an educational tool than a specific one. Belfius Bank is responsible for data processing for the Banx application. To open a bank account for the installation of this application, a certain amount of information must be requested from the customer. These are strictly necessary data in the context of the customer-bank relationship. This is the same data as when opening an account at Belfius or when installing the Belfius mobile app. It is too early at this stage to make any findings on the figures. Proximus has just launched Banx and she wants to inspire as many Belgians as possible with the slow banking movement. On the basis of the first returns, one can say that there is an interest in the market. Information on the number of downloads is confidential. With regard to comments, there are not only congratulations but also requests for additional features and a few questions about how the CO2 dashboard works. As far as bugs are concerned, there has been a technical problem with flow downboarding. This process has experienced some youth diseases that have since been rectified.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u79	Minister, thank you for your answers and technical clarifications. We will continue to monitor the evolution of this application, particularly with respect to privacy data protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u80	Madam Minister, on 1 March 2020 Bpost started the new distribution model. How many complaints has bpost received about late receipt of prior shipments?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u81	Mrs Dewulf, the number of customer contacts of bpost on late deliveries of prior consignments is very small. I have already stated, following several written questions, that customer contacts are not necessarily complaints. The specific customer contacts you mean in your question relate to less than 0.0025 % of the prior shipping. That's 1 in 40,000, which looks like a low number. Usually it's about a delivery in the neighbor's mailbox or vice versa.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u82	Madam Minister, since the introduction of the new distribution model, prior consignments and non-priority consignments have regularly failed. I have pointed out a few times about the shortage of staff. The work then remains or is divided, which means that the correspondence is longer on the way. This has to be resolved urgently, because a stamp is not cheap enough and will become even more expensive from next year on. There will be an increase of 8 % for the non-priority stamps and 18 % for the prior stamps.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u83	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Vindevoghel's 55021804 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u84	Madam Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u85	Thank you, Mr Freilich, for that question. In the context of the calculation of the amount of compensation to Bpost for the provision of services of general economic interest (SGEI), a mechanism was set up to encourage Bpost to operate as efficiently as possible and to penalise Bpost in the opposite case. This mechanism is provided for and is under the supervision of the European Commission. Efficiency gains and losses shall be distributed between Bpost and the State in accordance with a formula included in the management contract. I understand that the management contract ended up with you through the committee. You can find the formula in it. The efficiency gains correspond to the reduction in the costs of bpost compared to previous years for the provision of services of general economic interest. The efficiency losses correspond to the increase in the cost of bpost compared to previous years. If bpost fails to meet its objectives, the compensation will be partially reduced. If bpost exceeds the objectives and increases its efficiency, the fee will be partially increased, but without exceeding the ceiling laid down in the management contract. The seventh management contract, including the calculation of the fee, is currently being examined by the European Commission. You asked why bpost should create the digihubs. You know that bpost is physically present in every municipality. It's like the density of the network, both in the city and in the countryside, that makes that network unique. A significant proportion of the population does not have access to digital technology. As our society is becoming more digital, which also applies to banks and public authorities, it is important that we can help that population. Mr Freilich, you will understand that to help people who are far from the digital world, they need a physical presence. It is precisely this physical presence that makes contact possible that these people do not have or no longer have. Bpost also already offers basic banking services in its offices. As far as the initiatives on the digital divide are concerned, I can already announce that several preliminary studies and pilot projects are or will be launched in the three regions of the country. The aim of these pilot projects is to find out which public is present in the post offices and is far from the digital world. In this way, we can identify the obstacles people face when using digital solutions. Finally, we can actually support customers in digital operations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic616x.u86	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answers.
