ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u1	Mr President, I tabled this question a long time ago. She was originally addressed to the Minister of the Interior, but she has been referred to you, Prime Minister. I suppose she would have had enough weight if you could answer that. In addition to the health problems we face today, there is also a very big problem with cybercrime. In Limburg alone, citizens were robbed in 2020 for around 25 million euros. The police have to mop with the crane open and therefore pulls the alarm bell. I believe it is important for the government to be able to protect citizens from cybercrime. I have the following questions. Can and will you, in the very short term, deploy an efficient and effective national campaign to protect people from cybercrime? Is it true that in the last few weeks I have been forced to speak about November, the police, in consultation with the prosecutor's office, have been in a situation in which she can only carry out further investigations in limited cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u2	Mr President, Mr Moyaers, I would like to begin with your second question, to point out that I have no knowledge of this. My colleague from the Interior, to whom you originally asked the question, let us know that this falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice. I must therefore refer to him to verify that information. My competence is limited to cyber security in itself, to sensitizing citizens and businesses to the dangers. Cybercrime is a continuous priority for the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB). There is safeonweb.be, a website managed by the CCB, which permanently informs the Belgian population about cybersecurity problems and cybercrime. For example, new phishing messages are being alerted to go around and other cyber attacks. In addition, the CCB, together with the Cyber Security Coalition, organises an annual national awareness campaign through videos, radio spots, advertisements and so on. A specific theme, such as passwords, phishing, back-ups, etc., is discussed. In March, the CCB plans a campaign on account security through the so-called two-step verification. Via the address suspected@safeonweb.be, the CCB also has false URLs blocked to reduce the number of victims of phishing in Belgium. More than 3.2 million messages were received in 2020. This means more than 8,800 messages every day, which is almost double compared to 2019. Thanks to the forwarded messages, we were able to block almost 670,000 fraudulent links. Due to the sharp increase in false messages around the coronavirus, the CCB has created a sensitisation video about phishing and safe teleworking. The film was distributed through social media in March 2020 and reached more than 1 million Belgians. Specifically for companies, the CCB organises various actions and assists them when they are the victims of a major cyber attack through the operational service CERT.be. The CCB also sends targeted notifications when it becomes aware that companies are vulnerable to certain cyber risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. It is good that a lot of campaigns are being conducted. I can hear you say that they are mainly focused on businesses, while a lot of family dramas are taking place today, with people losing up to tens of thousands of euros. Sometimes it's about all their savings. It is absolutely necessary that we do something about this. As I said earlier, in Limburg alone, people were being scammed for 25 million euros last year. For that, we have to be able to do a little bit more. It is good that you have been able to improve the figures on the number of interceptions, but on the other hand it is also important to know, especially with the corona crisis, that a lot of citizens are behind the screen and are also making a lot of purchases. In addition, they are often deceived.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas 55011147C has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, some time ago I questioned Minister De Sutter about the fact that federal administrations are recruiting foreigners from third countries (non-EU) on the basis of an unconstitutional KB. This is contrary to Article 10 of the Constitution. That is why I questioned the Minister. Her answer was rather deceptive, she admitted in so many words that it was an unconstitutional situation. There is no change to this legislature either, since that article was not declared to be subject to revision. Nevertheless, as she said in the second part of her answer, she will simply maintain the situation. That's why I came to you as Prime Minister. Do you not think that the members of your government should respect the principles of the Constitution and the democratic rule of law? Can they take any action contrary to the Constitution? Don't tell me you're planning to cover it. Do you intend to call the Minister to order on this matter? Or do you see no problem at all in her passivity in that regard? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u6	Mr President, Mrs Pas, the federal ministers naturally respect the provisions of the Constitution and the principles of the democratic rule of law. One of the principles is that, in the event of a situation of illegality, the accused parties may move to an independent court to submit a dispute. It should be noted that both the 2005 Royal Decrees and the specific appointments that you apparently have questions about were not challenged and should therefore be judged legally to the contrary. Secondly, for this reason, I have every confidence in Minister De Sutter that she will be able to develop an inclusive and attractive recruitment policy for the federal public office.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u7	Mr President, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his brief reply. I note that you are as passive as the other minister. As long as it is not challenged, it seems that you should not take into account its unconstitutional nature. I cannot get rid of the impression that the Constitution is a little more important at one time than at another. It is also still waiting for a pandemic law, although it has been said for a month that it is ready. We are in a situation where far-reaching measures are taken on the basis of ministerial decisions. The Minister for the Interior calls that an administrative formality, protests against it are legal nonsense. I understand that exceptional situations require exceptional measures, but, as in the situation I am now referring to, legal certainty is required. The government has an exemplary role to play in this. I expect a change in that in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, during the previous parliamentary term I regularly raised the question of a state of affairs with the Minister for the Interior. The government agreement at that time stated, because the Länder became more important, that this protocol order, as a symbol, should be revised, that the Länder should be put forward a little bit. However, that file turned out to be completely stuck. Then Minister Jambon kept answering me that it was stuck. At one point, Prime Minister Michel then drew that file to him, but he also did not get any movement. In your coalition agreement, I find nothing in this regard. When discussing the policy letters of the Ministers for Institutional Reform and Political Renewal, I asked them about concrete plans, but they remained guilty of the answer. Meanwhile, there is another reason to change that protocol order, because a princess has joined, namely Delphine. Where are these new princes and princesses going to be included, with regard to future Te Deums, national defilés and so on? In this country, carriers of a princely title are supposed to carry out representative tasks on behalf of the Head of State. That is why I am asking for this order of protocol to satisfy both concerns, even though the importance of the Länder is a little more important to me than that of the princesses. I would have liked an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u9	Mr President, the establishment of the list is the responsibility of the Minister for the Interior. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and myself have only an advisory competence in this matter. The list is a matter of customary law. There is therefore no legal or regulatory framework for the list. It has already been said by my predecessors, but I shall repeat it again. The order of priority has no social, philosophical or religious connotation. Nor can any privilege or right, of any kind, be attached to it. There is no provision in the coalition agreement for any revision of the protocol's priority. The government wants to transform the national holiday in our capital and elsewhere into a contemporary celebration, with a great appeal, with cooperation with the Communities and the Regions being given a more prominent role. There is currently no question of Princess Delphine carrying out representative tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, for the record, the file was transferred from the Minister of the Interior to the Prime Minister. You are clearly saying today that it is once again the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. I will certainly question her about this. It is urgent that this more prominent role of the Länder should be given a symbolic place in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u11	Prime Minister, it was on a Saturday morning I like to read my newspapers, like many people in this country, that something popped out of the newspaper. It was the '1 team of 11 million' poster with the tricolore. You won't be surprised that didn't charm me very much as a Flemish nationalist. It already raised the question of what was intended and what it was actually about. A few hours later, it was possible to follow on social media that the campaign had been launched. In my municipality and the places where I go, I have seen very few posters. However, the Flemish-national bastion Lubbeek may not be representative for the whole of Flanders, let alone Belgium. I doubt there were so many people hanging the poster. I understand from Mr De Vriendt that the reason for this is that the poster was too small. Maybe you should've made them bigger, then more people would've hung them. But I also doubt that very much. Personally, the initiative gave me the impression that it was a kind of belgic recovery of a terrible virus that affects us all and that causes a lot of victims, especially in my municipality, which has been very badly affected. That's my personal appreciation. I hope that wasn't the government's agenda. That would be cynical, perhaps too cynical for Belgian politics. How much did the government campaign cost? I would like to have some details on that. I understand that Mrs Pas was in favour of me and put a written question to me. I always have the impression that it takes longer to get an answer to written questions, perhaps because as Secretary of State I was not always the best student in answering written questions. That is why I put the question orally so that I would be the first. Quod nun. Besides, I understand you can't stand here every week. You shouldn't be the Prime Minister. You've been on the stage every Thursday afternoon. All due respect, then. Where is the government campaign budgeted? Is this paid with the external communication budget under your Chancery? Mr Michel fought hard to ensure that the Chancery would certainly remain with the Prime Minister. Or is the money coming from the interdepartmental commission corona or from another budget line? Finally, how did the award procedure work? After all, it is about a large budget. If you cannot answer my last question immediately, I will ask a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u12	Thank you, Mr Francken, for your example of personal transparency about a recent past. The question as you put it has actually already been dealt with by a written question from Mrs Pas. A table of figures has also been added which I will not read here. You want to know the exact cost of the specific part of the campaign under the slogan "1 team of 11 million." I can't give you any details on that point. As usual with this type of service, in order to obtain the best possible conditions, a single public contract was awarded, in this case on 3 August 2020. This was for an initial period of three months for the design, production and media purchase of the many federal government campaigns in the fight against the coronavirus. The campaign includes, on the one hand, the information part to remind people of the corona measures and the measures taken by the different levels of competence. On the other hand, there is the component you mention, which seeks to support the motivation and solidarity of citizens in order to ensure that they respect the rules and strengthen motivation. The amount much has been spoken of concerns the totality of campaigns. A very large part of that campaign relates to the six golden rules and many specific target groups in respect of the rules. These were not necessarily federal rules, but rules agreed on the Consultation Committee with the various authorities. The mandate I spoke about was extended for a period of three months, until 3 February 2021, following a favourable opinion from the Treasury Inspectorate and the agreement of the Secretary of State for the Budget. The appropriations for this campaign come from the so-called Corona section of the interdepartmental commission. During this period, a total of 3,070,254,94 euros, VAT included, was budgeted. Most of them go to media purchases of radio, TV, newspapers, magazines, internet and social media. So this whole amount is not just about the commercial that has been discussed, but about the totality of the entire media campaign that covers a long period of time and that people are trying to sensitize to maximum about the corona measures in the broad sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u13	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your clear answer. It's obvious it was about a lot more. I'm certainly not against sensitisation. That was very important, especially in the beginning. This can also be maintained, as it is still necessary for certain target groups. Some are very hard learners in understanding the corona measures. The same goes for the quarantine. I'm mayor, and the local authorities now have a duty to follow the quarantine. I'm getting people on the line. I'm also calling a number of people who claim they still don't know how the quarantine and isolation are put together. It is not because one comes from another country or speaks another language but here works that one should not know the rules. I believe that the employer will inform those people, and in Eastern Europe, for example, strict measures have been taken. I don't believe any of that. It's often used as an excuse. So I have nothing against sensitisation at all, but I found the commercial and certainly the poster campaign less successful. You won't be surprised. There was a belgic and recovery smell, which I am less a fan of myself. Again, that won't surprise you. You say the award was made on 30 August. You weren't Prime Minister at the time. That happened under Mrs. Wilmès. I will not say much more about the award, because that went according to the rules, but I will submit a written question on that for more information. Can you tell me the price of the poster campaign in the newspapers that weekend? I can get that separately. Maybe that can be calculated? You also say that the campaign will end on 3 February. Is there a successor? From 3 February onwards, has there been no more sensitisation, or has there been a new call for tenders and for how much money? February 3 is next week. I will put a new question on that. So we can expect some of those posters on Saturday in Het Laatste Nieuws. Oh, my gosh. Can you please tell me in advance when that will be, so I won't choke on my coffee too hard this time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u14	A notified man is worth two, Mr Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u15	Mr Raskin is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u16	Prime Minister, the Brussels city toll has already touched a lot, not only in Brussels, but also in Wallonia and Flanders, throughout Belgium. Motions against their introduction were adopted in several parliaments. Sven Gatz of Open Vld is in favour, while party member Lydia Peeters, Flemish Minister of Mobility, threatens with legal resistance. Also Walloon Prime Minister Di Rupo says to oppose and is joined by PS President Paul Magnette, who claims that the city toll is not for this legislature. Brussels Prime Minister Rudi Vervoort and Brussels Minister for Mobility Elke Van den Brandt of Green, on the other hand, pushed the accelerator. The parties themselves do not know who is defending what. Today we will probably get the truth about the file, because all these parties are represented in your government. So far, the federal government has not ruled on the debacle, which demonstrates the chaos of the division of powers in the country. Since the debate is taking place at the highest level, among the leaders of the various governments, have you already consulted the Brussels, Flemish and Walloon governments since the announcement of the Brussels kilometre tax? Shouldn't the federal level be in charge of such mobility issues, which concern all Belgians? What is the federal government's position on the project of the city toll in Brussels and the time frame of that project? Has the plan been discussed in the federal government, given the impact on competences such as poverty reduction, economy, work, rail transport and equal opportunities? What minister is not affected by such measures? Anyway, is there unity in the government about the approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u17	The Consultative Committee did indeed discuss the plans of the Brussels Government on 18 December. The Brussels-Capital Region has been asked to set up an ad hoc consultative structure. This structure would consist of a central working group, which would coordinate the consultation work and report regularly to the Consultation Committee. Sub-groups may also be set up according to the themes. Each government shall determine its representation in the various working groups. At the next regular meeting of the Consultation Committee, the Brussels-Capital Region will present a concrete plan for a consultative structure. The Brussels Government has committed itself not to take any new decision at all, as long as the inter-federal consultation is ongoing and at least until 31 March of this year. The Brussels Government will renew this commitment according to the outcome of that consultation. So I think there is a tight timing when the consultation structure gives all the opportunities for the various authorities to share their concerns and concerns. As chairman of the Consultative Committee, it would be inappropriate for me now to make additional, substantive statements on the content of the Brussels Government's plan. However, I can refer to the answers given several times by Minister Gilkinet. I agree with him that the problem of congestion in and around the capital is pressing and that the solutions would be in the interests of the whole country, not least for the many commuters from Flanders and other parts of the country. After all, the mobility button around Brussels is a shared responsibility of the various authorities. I am thinking, for example, of the role of SNCB, for which the federal government is competent. You ask me whether this is detrimental to the interests of the Flemish Region and the Walloon Region, and whether the federal government will stand by their side. On the one hand, I cannot anticipate a hypothetical situation, on the other hand, I think it is important in a functioning federal state that governments respect each other's powers. I have every confidence in the Flemish and Walloon governments to defend the interests of their regions themselves. I am not going to interfere in the exercise of regional powers. We will stand up for the interests of the federal government and sit at the table as a constructive partner in the search for the best solution for all the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u18	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. The date of March 31st is very close. I do not yet see many elements of agreement, even within the parties themselves. I would point out that, of course, the federal government will have to take a stand. I think that such a city toll would be really negative for people who come from outside Brussels, but also for the people of Brussels themselves. I figured that out a little bit. Some people will have to pay 300 to 400 euros a year, just because they have to cross the city for their job, to bring children to school and so on. Of course, there is also a social aspect to it. Someone who has a lot of money will be able to pay for that city toll without any problems, but someone who doesn't have any money will not be able to pay for it. I think the federal government should intervene in that. Finally, why do people from the Brussels border come to Brussels by car? When asked, they appear to come from precisely those regions where there are no trains. SNCB is not there. If there is a station nearby, people will take the train, but if they first have to drive 10 or 15 kilometers by car and then take the train, then that is not possible. In that sense, there really is a link with the federal government and the relay plan to have trains run in those regions as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, according to articles in The New York Times and Politico, IBM has found that a series of cyber attacks have recently taken place in the United States and in Europe. In America, it specifically concerned several companies and public authorities involved in the distribution of the corona vaccine. Closer to us, the European Commission's Taxation and Customs Union department was the victim of similar attacks. We do not yet know who is behind this, but the main suspects are hackers from Russia or North Korea. That is at state level, but we have seen in our country at a smaller level that a number of laboratories engaged in testing people on the coronavirus have also been affected by ransomware or hacking. That is why I have a number of questions. Are any attempts in Belgium known of cyberattacks related to the corona vaccine? Who oversees this problem and ensures protection, alongside the private companies themselves? Are all authorities aware of possible threats? Finally, do you think that there is sufficient protection at the moment to ensure cyber security in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u20	Mr President, Mr Freilich, the Centre for Cyber Security Belgium (CCB) has not yet received a notification of targeted cyber attacks related to the corona vaccine. However, the CCB is aware of some recent cyber attacks on institutions in the healthcare sector, such as the ransomware attack at the general medical laboratory in Antwerp on 28 December. Cyber attack investigations cannot demonstrate that these attacks were targeted, with the aim of disrupting vaccination roll-out in Belgium. The CCB monitors and evaluates the cyber threat in Belgium on a daily basis and informs all interested parties. As coordination is one of the key tasks of the CCB, the CCB manages several cooperation platforms including the other intelligence and security services, sectoral authorities, Internet service providers, and represents our country in various international cyber security forums. This specific threat was very closely associated with the National Crisis Centre, the intelligence and security services as well as with the competent health authorities. The Crisis Centre, in collaboration with the FPS Public Health, has mapped out the cycle of vaccination roll-out in Belgium from research, production, distribution and storage to the eventual vaccination of the population. As regards the cybersecurity of this cycle, the CCB cooperates intensively with them. To this end, consultations have already taken place with the selected distribution centres, the so-called hub hospitals. In doing so, the CCB explained which services are offered to them to increase cyber security. Other entities identified by the NCC in the vaccination roll-out process shall be contacted individually for the purpose of explaining the above services. The CCB has developed guidelines with cyberrecommendations, which will be handed over to those responsible for the vaccination centres on 29 January. The purpose of the application of these cyberrecommendations is to assist the various vaccination centres, to keep the ICT infrastructure continuously available, and to help protect the confidentiality and integrity of the data.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u21	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. It is indeed very important that vaccination can be carried out in a sound and safe way, including in the area of cyber security. Sometimes it seems like we are sabotaging ourselves at European or local level, but what would be much worse is a major cyber attack just when we are actually starting vaccinations. I am therefore pleased that the various entities involved in cyber security in our country are taking the threat seriously. We will also follow that closely from our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u22	Prime Minister, the 2013 dotation law lays down that the beneficiaries, including Prince Laurent, should submit an activity report. In the past, the activity reports and the previously limited information contained in these reports have often been discussed. In November or December I went looking for Prince Laurent's activity report for 2019, the most recent, but that was nowhere to be found. There was no such report in the services of the Chamber. Questions were asked about the services of the Chancellery, but there was no report there either. I then put this question to you. Soon after, a report has emerged. The content of my question is now somewhat out of date because I was able to see this report through the services a few days after my question was submitted. I find that somewhat odd, so my question remains: what went wrong? In the correspondence I received, there is indeed a letter dated April 20, 2020 in which Prince Laurent delivered his activity report to your predecessor, Sophie Wilmès. As a result, I suspect that it is up to you to confirm or not to confirm that something has gone wrong within the services of the Prime Minister, perhaps among your predecessor, so that the activity report has not come to us. My questions are therefore very clear. What went wrong in forwarding this activity report? Will you ensure that the activity report will be sent to Parliament more quickly in the future? I myself have a number of proposals pending in the Committee on Finance with the intention of imposing certain provisions on data which the reports should contain. A qualitative upgrading of these reports seems to me appropriate. In the first instance, the fulfilment of the obligations under the current law seems to me to be the least that should be done, both by the prince and by the services of the Prime Minister. I look forward to your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u23	Mr President, Mr Buysrogge, when we heard that Prince Laurent's activity report had not yet been delivered to the Chamber, we immediately contacted the staff of the former Prime Minister. They could only find traces of forwarding to the Chamber of the records of His Majesty King Albert II and Her Royal Highness Princess Astrid. They could not confirm whether the report of His Royal Highness Prince Laurent was received or sent. We have contacted the Palace which confirmed that the report was effectively forwarded earlier. We have therefore asked for the report to be forwarded again. On Wednesday 9 December 2020, we delivered it to the Chamber, as the law says.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u24	Mr President, Minister, I conclude from your very brief answer that this is a shared responsibility. On the one hand, the answer is that the prince confirms that the report has been forwarded. On the other hand, the services state that they do not have any evidence to suggest that the report has arrived effectively. Is that report delivered by carrier? Could we perhaps carry out another study on this? Could we perhaps ask Bpost whether certain correspondence has not passed through? In short, we could conduct a full investigation into this matter. It might lead us too far to find out such a subject so in detail. For the sake of clarity, I am not a asking party to this. What intrigues me is that no reflection has taken place in any way with the services of the Prime Minister, with your services or with those of your predecessor, to check whether the activity report has actually been submitted, or that a substantive check has been carried out to determine whether there is any missing or need to be described in more detail. In short, the government does not use the activity report as a document to exercise control over the prince, which does concern me. Mr Prime Minister, I would therefore like to call for the government to carry out its monitoring function more effectively for the 2020 activity report, which is perhaps now being prepared, and to check whether the reports are being submitted and whether a substantive check will be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u25	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Maegd converted 55011621C into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u26	Mr President, my first two questions have already been answered. My third question still needs to be answered, but Mr Jadin's question was put to me. So she can lead the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u27	Mr President, many things have been said by the Prime Minister during the question-and-answer session last week in plenary, but I will not squander my pleasure in questioning the Prime Minister for the first time in this Parliament and also for the first time in this committee. It's always a pleasure. As regards the closure of borders or at least the ban on so-called non-essential trips abroad in the light of the new mutation of the covid-19 virus on the one hand and the new dangers facing us all over Europe on the other, as a liberal, I still regret any restriction of freedom. I can still hear – and I welcomed your colleague Mrs Verlinden – that this time, the government has been much more predictive than it was during the first phase of the pandemic in relation to this border closure. It was absolutely to be avoided. I myself come from a border region where things are really very difficult to manage in the event of border closures. My question would therefore be as to when we might possibly consider a possible relaxation of this measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u28	Mr Prime Minister, the decisions on Friday which are always taken with great interest also raise questions. On the question of what perspective you can offer to those who did not meet their hopes for relaxation last Friday, you and other policy makers have already given extensive text and explanations in the media. There is a perspective, but under strict conditions. I think everyone understood that signal. It's still delicate. On the one hand, one offers a perspective, on the other hand, one must hold a battle for the arm. Will people be disappointed? I don't think one can ever do good for everyone. I'm not going into that part. I shall go further into the closure of the non-essential movement limits. How will enforcement take place? Yesterday the technique of the ministerial decision was again used. Will you ensure that the court can support on sufficient grounds when a person who would cross the MB's provisions within the limits brings the restriction of that fundamental right? I have my doubts about that. I ask you this question again, and I may have to do it a number of times. Let's assume for a moment that the MB can indeed serve as a support. Is the interpretation that ministers in Bergen op Zoom can do their shopping because they are not subject to conditions to cross the border? I read something last weekend that asks for your explanation. I read in The Guardian that no one less than Didier Reynders in his new position from the European Commission has noted that closing the borders, as we do now, goes beyond what the European Commission has recommended. I quote from The Guardian: "If certain member states would like to go further than the Commission recommendation, then we request from them an explanation and justice to show that it is not discriminatory and it is necessary and proportional." That question has been explicitly asked, if I may base myself on The Guardian, as a result of the decision to close the borders. Thank you very much for the clarification you wish to provide.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u29	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, as regards the borders and the sometimes complicated situation of people living in border areas, we must be clear: we do not close borders! We sluiten from grenzen niet! As a result of our experience with the first wave, we know how to use the legal provisions so as not to disturb the lives of the borderers. That is why the Ministerial Decree contains a fairly long list of all cross-border movements that are allowed. There is also a specific provision for the inhabitants of border communes and municipalities bordering these border communes. This therefore concerns the municipality which is at the border and its neighbouring municipality. For them, the provision says that cross-border activities that are part of daily habits are allowed. Therefore, someone who is used to picking up his bread on the other side of the border because it is the nearest baker, etc. can keep going. That is no problem. Other examples have also been taken, such as urgent repair, animal care, etc. We have had a lot of contacts with people who know the subject of borders well to be sure, this time, that there is no ambiguity about what is allowed. The ministerial decree which has been issued therefore contains a list which states this. We need to be clear: what we are aiming for is cross-border travel with a tourist or recreational purpose. Mr De Roover, I have been in contact with Commissioner Reynders and I have heard very well what he said at the press conference. He said that if countries want to go further, they must be able to justify it. He also said on the radio that this does not mean that he asked for an additional justification from Belgium. I have talked to him about this and his reasoning is that the argument we have given, in the press and during the press conference, is justification. In my view, that justice is also very clear. During the Christmas holidays we asked the people in a very friendly but also very penetrating way not to travel. A very large part of the population has respected this, but there are 160,000 people who have done so despite this very friendly question. In the meantime, we know from the tests carried out on returning travellers that they found more positive tested people carrying a mutation. We have been able to see that an urgent question did not have the desired effect, and that is the justification to go one step further. I understand that the European Commission will not ask our country for any additional elements for this. It has been explained very clearly which movements are allowed. The Ministerial Decision also effectively contains a passage on MEPs and similar functions, international organisations and ministers. After all, with the political international organisations we have here, it cannot be the intention to hinder those people from performing their duties. The interpretation I give in relation to Belgian ministers is that this could only apply with regard to the performance of their duties. As you rightly requested, this does not mean that a minister has the opportunity, for example, to visit Maastricht on a tourist basis. The question has also been raised as to when these measures will apply. The measures shall apply until 1 March. As you say, I have always said that it is difficult to find a balance between offering perspective and not giving false hope. As always, we have to look at how the figures are evolving. That's what we do day after day. I note, however, that the call I made at the end of the Consultation Committee, namely to look forward to measures that can give young people more perspective in the difficult situation, has been answered. The Communities have responded to this question and have put forward a proposal to adapt a number of matters. The federal government looked at this in detail this morning, and we gave our support to it. It will therefore be translated into a new ministerial decision as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u30	Prime Minister, thank you for your very clear answer. Finally, I did very well to put it down, because I have still had many elements that will also allow me to do the relay, including in relation to the very specific situations listed in the Royal Decree allowing cross-border travel for essential reasons. That seems clear to me, at least from this point of view. In general, we can regret having to come to such situations. Perhaps we could appeal again to the responsibility of everyone in order to be able to regain, as soon as possible, our freedoms which are dear to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u31	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. You say the borders are not closed. They are closed to a lot of people in many circumstances. That is a very serious measure. You won't take it with pleasure. It's kind of linear, too. Today we are forbidden to stay in the Netherlands, where the rules are stricter. There it is forbidden to go outside and visit shops after 8.30 p.m., while it is allowed to comply with less strict rules. That is somewhat illogical because you may be referring, and rightly so, to those who are long-term abroad in dangerous conditions or in epidemiologically dangerous conditions, but that logic is actually linear. I understand that you have been biking around my question about whether a ministerial decision can take such drastic measures. Your government will continue in this respect, although in the meantime there are court rulings that may lead to those measures not being able to stand up in court. That chaos should be avoided, but you are now at risk. I shall come back to what you said about the ministers. I've read that passage thoroughly. This is not discussed in the same way as Members of the European Parliament or people working in diplomatic posts. If you say that they should only do so in the performance of their duties, then you admit that this ministerial decision is sloppy, because it is worded differently there. It does not say that in this way, and it would have been nice for the public to accept that it would not give the impression that they would be allowed to cross the border outside their duties, although that might not be essential. I think this shows that the ministerial decision has been sloppy. For this reason, too, I believe that Parliament would prefer to deal with such matters. If this text had been tabled in committee, the disadvantages of these uncertainties or shortcomings would undoubtedly have surfaced in the debate and could have been resolved by amendment, whereas we are now faced in the Belgian Official Journal with a finished text which contains the necessary defects, which means that you now have to clarify here an even less legal value than the text of that ministerial decision. I would like to conclude again with the question of ensuring, in future, that the measures, irrespective of their content, are deposited with the public in a clear and enforceable manner, including before the courts. I think this is a legal obligation that you should comply with.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u32	Mrs Van Bossuyt apologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u33	Prime Minister, last month the European Council endorsed the new European climate objectives for 2030. In doing so, the European Council did not respond to the European Parliament's and the Belgian climate movement's demand to achieve at least 60% emission reduction by 2030, while not using accounting tricks such as carbon sinks, including the CO2 extracted from the air by forests, lakes and other natural elements, in the climate effort. The European Council also accepted the latest scientific findings that the EU should reduce its emissions by at least 65% by 2030 in order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. With the current min-55 % target, we are still facing a life-threatening warming of more than 3 degrees Celsius by the end of the century. Is it true that the government has been actively advocating that there should be no more ambition than a reduction in emissions of 55% by 2030? What was Belgium's attitude towards the use of accounting tricks such as carbon sinks, which would only bring the actual emission reduction to 50.5%? I am not making up the latter, it is figures from the European Commission. Finally, why has Belgium advocated what it has advocated? How do you justify calling for a lower target than what is necessary according to science, while you are in charge of a government that calls itself ambitious in terms of climate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u34	Mr Hedebouw, our country has not argued for lower emissions targets than what the European Commission has proposed. Our country's position at the December Council meeting focused solely on the political balances between the Member States and implementing principles in order to make this increased level of ambition possible for our country too. All governments in our country fully support the objective of achieving a climate-neutral society by 2050. Belgium is not in favour, as you describe it, of using accounting tricks to weaken climate objectives in the facts. This is a very strong commitment, which will require great and consistent efforts from all of us. It is therefore clear that our country and its different levels of policy are looking at what is the most efficient and feasible way for everyone to achieve the objective effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u35	Prime Minister, you are not really answering the question. It is a fact that an agreement has been reached that is below the level of what has been put forward by science and the IPCC. That's not how we're gonna get there. With a greener government, I had hoped for a little more voluntarism in Belgium. I don't need to explain to you the carbon sink system. If one starts with that, one does not reduce the production of CO2 itself and in fact the figures are falsified. So it is unfortunate that there is no more voluntarism. In any case, we will follow the dossier very closely. I hope that in the coming months and in the relaunch plan we will take structural measures to reduce carbon emissions in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u36	Prime Minister, I have also put this question to the Minister of Justice. He has already given me a comprehensive answer to this, but I would like to know if you have any other insight into this problem. We have seen that the TikTok app has potential security risks. The United States has warned against this. Did our security services do the same? How do you see that? How can we generally protect those who use their phones both professionally and privately? Perhaps it is not a bad idea for the government itself to invest in a kind of quality label for reliable apps, possibly at European level, so that people know which apps are and which are not GDPR compliant? Today the consumer has guessed about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u37	Mr Freilich, the analysis of espionage in our country is a task for the intelligence services. However, the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB) endorses the State Security's advice not to install applications that are not necessary on devices for professional use, or which contain sensitive information. The CCB raises awareness of the technical security of mobile devices and the use of applications. The tips are: only install apps from the default app stores, remove apps that are no longer used and limit app access to the strictly necessary. Every year in October, within the framework of the European Cybersecurity Month, the CCB also launches a national awareness camapgne on cybersecurity. During each campaign, attention is paid to the security of mobile devices. A quality label for applications can only have an impact at national level if it is regulated at European level. The EU issued the Cybersecurity Act in June 2019. It creates a new European framework to issue EU certificates for the cyber security of ICT products, services and processes across the European Union, based on security risks. Which ICT products, services and processes, such as applications on mobile devices, are eligible for specific certificates and which common rules they have to comply with each time, will be defined in several cybersecurity certification schemes to be established. For Belgium, the CCB will be proposed as a national cybersecurity certification authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u38	Minister, it is interesting that you say that there will be new bodies or that the existing bodies will be given new tasks. If I may ask a follow-up question, have you set a certain timing for that? Will this happen in 2021 or in the longer term?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u39	I'm gonna have to investigate that further. If you ask me a written question, I will be able to answer it quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u40	Mr Anseeeuw is not present to ask his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u41	Mr President, I have a practical question first. What about speaking time? I understand that it has been agreed in the government that the Prime Minister would like to answer all questions on behalf of the trade ministers and State Secretary, but I would like to ask them thematically per minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u42	I cannot decide how the Prime Minister will answer you, but you are entitled to two minutes per question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u43	Mr President, I understand that you are acting within the rules of the Rules of Procedure. There's nothing I can do to hurt you. I regret, however, that a substantive debate, which should take place in any committee, cannot take place. When we ask Minister Verlinden and Minister Clarinval whether institutional questions can be asked, their answer is always that we should address the Minister of Trade. If we do that, it seems that we can't. I regret that, but I will respect the Rules of Procedure. Prime Minister, I strongly believe in tailor-made policies. Different needs must be addressed in a different way. Different diseases don't cure with the same antibiotics either. There must therefore be a tailor-made policy, with a different approach to different needs. I believe that this will also give rise to policy competition. As a liberal, you may be pleased. Competition ensures that we can inspire each other. We can see what happens over the wall and then decide whether we're going to do it or not. That's how we learn lessons from each other. In this respect, there is a very interesting passage in the coalition agreement, because that is exactly what you want to make possible. You want to set up a system that makes it possible to learn from each other, look over the wall and offer customization. You call this an asymmetric policy, not the same policy in Flanders and Wallonia, but adapted to the needs. This does not mean that a power should be split, but you ask your ministers to pursue a different policy in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. Mr Prime Minister, I understand that you will answer the question for the Minister for Employment. We have read in the press and in the coalition agreement that you have great ambitions for the employment rate. It needs to be raised to 80 %. In order to do so, a great deal of action will have to be taken. Mr Magnette says that these measures must be different in Flanders than in Wallonia. What does the chairman of the PS say? That he has no problem in any way that criminal measures are taken in Flanders. That is interesting, because this is just an asymmetric policy. Is that a piste that your Minister of Work will use this legislature? I understand that the Minister for Mobility cannot answer here, but you will be happy to do so in his place. Previous legislature there was a rain of proceedings between the Flemish Minister of Mobility, then Mr Weyts, and the federal minister Bellot. Mr. Bellot constantly opted for sabotage. Every time the Flemish ministers tried to do something, the federal minister stuck sticks in the wheels. Mr De Croo, will that be the same approach for your government? Do you also opt for this sabotage, or will you opt for the asymmetric policy in which the Länder can conduct a tailor-made policy? This is how I address you as a minister with the Home Secretary's hat. The Minister of the Interior is not allowed to answer the question today either, but you will undoubtedly be able to do so. There is a lot of debate on police, fire and civil protection security policy. How can you get that on one hand and how will you ensure that the needs of a city like Brussels are met other than in a densely populated region such as Flanders, and also in a somewhat wider region such as Wallonia? Will you also ensure asymmetric policy there, Minister for the Interior? You also ate the health minister's hat today. I understand the Minister of Health can't be here today either. You can also answer that question. Even in corona times, differences emerge between Flanders and Wallonia. There are discussions about quarantine policy and whether this should not be filled in otherwise in Wallonia and Flanders. In Wallonia it is even said that Flanders is a little too strict. Is that also your vision, Minister of Health? Will you opt for a more asymmetrical policy there? Also outside the pandemic context, the language border in this country remains a care border. Dear Secretary of State for Migration, the questions to the Secretary of State for Migration will also be answered today. The integration policy has been allocated to the Länder in the current regulations. Dear Prime Minister, as Secretary of State for Migration, you have the power and opportunity to link that to the residence regulations. If a person wishes to acquire an unlimited stay in duration, the person could be expected to take an integration course first. However, this integration policy is different in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. Will you, Mr Secretary of State for Migration, also asymmetrically link integration policy to your prime minister's domain? Minister of Justice, you are also the Minister of Justice today. The urban context, I have already referred to, is different in Brussels than in Flanders and Wallonia. Will you also ensure a different police policy and a different policy of persecution there? You will understand, Minister, that I can go off with all the other areas, but I am happy to stick to these first questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u44	I would like to remind you that the Prime Minister has another appointment at 3:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u45	Do not worry, Mr President, I will not use the two-minute speaking time allocated to me by the Rules of Procedure. Prime Minister, you have put in your coalition agreement the passage that allows the federal government to asymmetrically exercise powers to align federal policy more closely with the needs of the Regions and the Communities. This is linked to the principles of equality and non-discrimination. We discussed this in detail in the policy letter of the Ministers for Institutional Reform. However, they have not given any concrete answers to our question as to what direction to look at. On the one hand, they put the ball in the Lander's camp, because Minister Verlinden has also confirmed that the initiative can also come from them. As far as the Flemish Government is concerned, my group has in any case already questioned every trade union minister about their plans and initiatives in this area. On the other hand, they put the ball in the Federal Trade Ministers' camp. That is very remarkable, because none of the ministers in their policy letter mentioned the asymmetrical powers or their exercise. That is why I have also put questions to all the members of your government about their practical implementation. How do they interpret the principles attached to them for their field of expertise? Do they each take the initiative in their field of expertise to achieve this? If so, what timing do they use? If not, why not? Have they already been contacted by their state colleague with initiatives in this area? Can they clarify this and what is their response to it? Like my colleague, Mr Loones, I understand that you will respond on behalf of all 20 members of your wealthy government. I hope that we will be able to hear this by subject area. Everything remains very vague so far. For the sake of completeness, I would add that it is not because you have questions about it from Mr Loones and myself that there is no concern in the other direction either. Recommendations were submitted by the CdH to the Policy Letter Institutional Reforms. They felt that this passage in your coalition agreement represented the risk that the autonomy of the federal government would be undermined and that it might have been the intention for the Regions to decide and the federal government to follow them. I hope you will confirm that line of thinking for all the trade ministers, but I would just like to point out that there is confusion and confusion on all sides. I hope you can clarify that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u46	Mr President, I would like to thank Members for the extreme diligence with which they have put questions to a whole series of ministers. Often they were largely the same questions about the same part of the coalition agreement. In order to avoid the need to provide identical or referring answers in various committees, it seemed advisable for the government to provide a collective answer to the questions in committee. The passage quoted in the coalition agreement is clear in itself. Indeed, it requires every minister to check whether there is shared competence within his or her domain and whether any form of asymmetric policy is possible. The coalition agreement refers, for example, to employment and health care. The Ministers for Institutional Reforms therefore also sent a letter last month to all colleagues in the government to remind them of that passage and to identify specific cases in which an asymmetric exercise of powers at the federal level can meet specific needs and dynamics in the Länder. The letter invites ministers to prepare the necessary legislative or executive initiatives and to shape any asymmetric measures. The policy cells of the Ministers for Institutional Reform make their expertise available for this purpose. Ministers will draw up a report in which, after the summer recess of 2021, they will present a state of play to the Council of Ministers. There is therefore no review at present of timing nor of the budgets concerned. I assume that the ministers will, where necessary, establish contacts with their colleagues in the Länder. In any event, the government has expressed the ambition to actively consult and cooperate with the Länder in the coming years. I also believe that this passage of the coalition agreement can be implemented in a constructive spirit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u47	Thank you for your answer. But I have not heard the reply of the Ministers for Employment, Security, Justice, Health, Home Affairs, Migration and Mobility. I asked a very precise question, but there is no answer to that. You speak of 'extreme diligence' of Members in asking their questions on the substance. I call that "doing my job" myself. In your reply, I note that you seem to have no confidence in the ministers of your government. You fear that they would give different answers. You seem to welcome the open debate culture only in your government on Twitter, but not in Parliament. We've already seen things on Twitter. Today we saw Mr Lachaert sailing against Mr Dermine. We also saw Mr Lachaert against Mrs Khattabi, Mr Coens against the governors and his own ministers. Everything can be done on social media, but not here in Parliament, here we only get promises from dialogue platforms. I believe that we can demand a minimum of respect for parliamentary democracy. You made great promises in your coalition agreement, then you should leave Parliament the opportunity and opportunity to monitor those promises for their real value. Mr Prime Minister, of course we know why you do not. Last week I asked a question to the North Sea Minister, Mr Van Quickenborne. I asked him to pursue such an asymmetric policy. That seems logical to me with regard to the North Sea. The North Sea is not in Wallonia. The North Sea is Flemish. There must therefore be a policy based on the needs of Flanders. The answer of your North Sea Minister, a West Fleming, by Mr Van Quickenborne, was 'nougat bulbs'. That's what's gonna happen. There will be no asymmetric policy and you do not want your ministers to answer that. Mr Prime Minister, this shows a lack of respect for Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u48	Mr Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for your reply, but I do not, of course, know much about it. There's nothing concrete yet. That's all I can conclude. You're not even giving any direction yet. In the past, such an asymmetric exercise of powers has always been a prelude to the subsequent regionalisation or communitarisation of these matters. Today, however, since you are not pointing in the direction, it can be perfectly understood as holding federal powers which, in fact, should be able to go to the Länder in the context of homogenisation. So it will wait for clarity until after the summer recess. You replied that the question we wanted to put to each minister was asked by the Minister for Institutional Reforms to her colleagues, that she would now list everything and that we should wait at least six months before we get an overview. I fear, indeed, that clarity is not yet in place for the first six months of the year, nor are initiatives. As my colleague Loones pointed out, everything can be done on Twitter. This also applies to the N-VA government members in the Flemish government. Everything can be done on Twitter, but unfortunately we are still not clear in Parliament. I regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u49	Mr President, Prime Minister, in recent times there have been a lot of cyber incidents, both at state-actors level against the interests of the state and large companies, and at individual citizens who have been victims of phishing, smishing, smishing and other clever tricks. Prime Minister, wouldn't it be more convenient to delegate the cybersecurity aspect to the Secretary of State for Digitalization, especially given the importance of the subject? I know that the Secretary of State has enough time off, but above all I think it is important that a dedicated Minister or Secretary of State should follow up on this dossier, given your really busy Prime Minister agenda. My second question is about cybersecurity regarding the military branch, so cybersecurity, including not only cybersecurity, but also cyberoffence, is increasingly the pinpointing from which the attack comes in the future. Isn't it better to transfer this power to the Minister of Defence? I understand that cyber security has been a part of the Prime Minister's cabinet for some ten years, but the aspect of cybercrime and cybersecurity was, frankly, far less important than today. Finally, I would like to ask about the recruitment of highly qualified staff for the development of this important sector. Are we able to find sufficient qualified personnel? Is it possible today to draw the right profiles at federal level with the various educational departments, such as colleges and universities, although they have regional competence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u50	Mr President, Mr Freilich, thank you for your concern for my busy agenda, but a correct and efficient approach to the various challenges in the cyber domain, ranging from prevention, detection and collection to action, requires a centralised follow-up and management of the various responsibilities, capabilities and initiatives. In view of the importance of this coordination, the Prime Minister's policy cell was extended to include an advisor to Cybersecurity before this legislature. Attracting cyber expertise is indeed a major challenge. The selection and recruitment of motivated and technically competent personnel in sufficient numbers is indispensable, but the number of cyber experts in the labour market is very scarce. In Belgium, classical competition on the labour market and in industry is being increased by the large number of international institutions that Belgium has as its main place of activity in Europe. An increase in cooperation with the private sector and the academic world is therefore a priority. The CCB has been working with the Cyber Security Coalition since 2015. This coalition is a unique Belgian platform that brings together representatives of the public sector, the private sector and academia in an organisation to share knowledge and experience of cybersecurity experts and good cybersecurity practices. We hope that this will also have a positive impact on the problems you have just described.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u51	Prime Minister, you are talking about a centralised succession. I understand that, and that also means that we will meet regularly. I only hope that the cabinet will also realise effectively that our country's cyber security is indispensable. We are a small but high-tech country and a lot depends on the ability to communicate well over the Internet and a great accessibility of our networks. I therefore hope that we will not have any problems in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u52	Mr President, Prime Minister, we all know the problem. In Spain, a number of Catalan civilian demonstrators are in prison because they have peacefully organized a referendum. A number of Catalan politicians are also in Belgium. Spain wants them to be extradited in order to be prosecuted there. Our judges have to judge whether or not this extradition is going to happen. There was an analysis of the council chamber and now also a judgment of the court of appeal. The reasoning in that judgment is an enormous punishment. I don't know if you've read that, Prime Minister. The Court of Appeal says that if another European Member State asks for surrender, it must be awarded, but not in this case because the fundamental rights in Spain are not guaranteed. The judgment also refers to the analysis of the United Nations Working Party on Arbitration Defence. The reasoning is taken up and it is said that the right to be judged by an independent and competent court in Spain is being violated. In Spain, therefore, an independent court is not judged. What else does our court of appeal say? The presumption of innocence in the Spanish courts is being violated. Prime Minister, it is time for us to finally wake up. We have a Member State in the European Union which exercises and violates fundamental fundamental rights in an un-European way. It is time that you made it not only a matter of judges, but also a political matter, and that you finally announced that we cannot do so. If such fundamental rights are violated, the European Commission must intervene in order to mediate and ensure that civilian demonstrators are not imprisoned but released as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u53	Mr President, Mr Loones, the succession of a European arrest warrant follows a legal logic in which the government has no role to play. Of course, the government respects the judgments of the court. My cabinet has received no other requests for extradition. That competence also belongs to the judicial authority and to the Minister of Justice. So I'm referring to him. The current procedure shows that the rule of law is working. Just as our country respects the current Spanish legal proceedings, our country also demands the same respect for the decisions of Belgian Justice. The government believes in a strong rule of law mechanism for all Member States of the European Union, whether Poland, Hungary or Spain. All must respect fundamental European values, such as respect for the rule of law. I am also personally convinced that a lasting solution to the internal situation in Catalonia and the relationship between the region and the Madrid government can only be found through dialogue. I hope that everyone is convinced that this must be done in accordance with the constitutional and legal provisions of Spain. That is why it is primarily an internal Spanish issue. The government has full confidence in the European Commission and its role as guardian of the Treaties and its efforts to ensure that the Union's values are respected and, where necessary, acted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u54	Thank you for your reply, Prime Minister, in which you said that there was evidence that the rule of law was working. Yes, here with us, but the rule of law clearly does not work in Spain. I am not saying that, our court of appeal and our judges say that the rule of law in Spain does not work and that, for example, respect for the presumption of innocence is not respected. I am pleased that you mention Spain for the first time in the same row as Poland and Hungary. That hasn't happened before. We often hear convictions from Poland and Hungary, but the word 'Spain' does not fall there. I call on you, Prime Minister, to do so consistently from now on. I am afraid of that, because you have said three times in the next part of your reply that you still think it is an internal Spanish debate, despite the fact that the rule of law is not respected and the judges have to judge it. When it comes to Poland and Hungary, it is not internal, as can be seen from one speech after another and one conviction after another. It is right, because if the rule of law does not work in a European country, then we are also the victims of it. This is also the case in Spain, Prime Minister. The rule of law doesn't work there either. Please take that to heart at last. I was a Member of the European Parliament. There are Members of the European Parliament in prison there now. They're colleagues of ours. That's a living shame.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u55	The Prime Minister has other appointments. The remaining questions will be postponed to a next committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u56	Prime Minister, today is the International Day of Remembrance for the Holocaust. Despite the difference at the political level, I would nevertheless like to thank you for your speech this afternoon for the European Jewish Association. It is important that we continue to stress this, even today, with rising anti-Semitism. I would like to thank you for that, on behalf of myself, the Jewish community and our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic355x.u57	Thank you very much. I have done so on behalf of the government, but also personally with a great deal of conviction. It's something that transcends all parties. It's gotta stay that way.
