ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u1	Your question is about the minus 25% rule. The impact of this rule is discussed in the context of the development of a multi-year journey at INAMI, where representatives of insurers, health care providers and my strategic unit are involved, as well as other competent experts, and representatives of patient associations. This review must take into account the protection required and the preservation of patient care accessibility. In this context, alternatives will need to be formulated to promote the agreement of care providers. This is intended to prepare the setting of priority health care objectives for the period 2022-2024, the approach to effective care and the establishment of a multi-year budget path for health care. To this end, a concrete roadmap has been developed and agreed within the Insurance Committee, taking into account that concrete proposals should, to the extent possible, be submitted to the Insurance Committee and the General Council before 30 June 2021. Given the significant impact on patients, caregivers and mandatory insurance, I think it is appropriate to look at this issue in detail first before we legislate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u2	Minister, in fact, there is no need to legislate because the law already provides for it. I recall sections 85 and 86 of the Act, which became the Act of April 22, 2019. In this respect, the legislation is clear. On the other hand, there is still a royal decree to be taken. I can hear you want to promote health care agreement. It is your responsibility, not the responsibility of the patient. The current reality is that patients are penalized. This is completely unfair in terms of access to care. This also goes completely against the principle of the right of the patient to choose his or her caregiver. It's up to you to develop agreements and synergies with caregivers so that the rate of agreement increases - and we know it's possible. I plead for the implementation of the famous sections 85 and 86 of the 2019 Act. As a reminder, it will come into force on 1 July next. It would be deeply unfair for patients not to make the said articles fully enforceable by that date. To continue penalizing them seems unacceptable to me. I therefore hope that action will follow very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u3	I won't give you all the statistics we have on triple negative breast cancers. One problem is that hormone treatments or targeted HER2 therapies cannot be administered since these tumours do not have estrogen or progesterone receptors or HER2 receptors. Three-way negative breast cancer reacts well to chemotherapy. However, the risk of recidivism at five years is high compared to hormone-positive or HER2-positive breast cancer. This risk decreases after five years. The same chemotherapeutic combinations administered for different types of breast cancer are proposed. Platinum salt may be added to the chemotherapy protocol in view of the positive results of some clinical studies in triple-negative breast cancer. Immunotherapy to treat locally advanced or metastatic triple negative breast cancer may also be an option if the tumour has a high protein expression rate of a certain biomarker, PDL1. From 1 April, the combination of Tecentriq immunotherapy with Paclitaxel is reimbursed in these cases. For all immunotherapy, there is a system that provides for reimbursement immediately after the approval of the European Medicines Agency. Therefore, if triple negative breast cancer is added as an indication in one of the immunotherapy treatments, treatment will be reimbursed. A targeted or personalized therapy has just been reimbursed: Vitrokvi. This was in the case of the presence of a biomarker, NTRK, which may be present in triple-negative but very rare-frequency breast cancer. A biomarker is more prevalent for this type of breast cancer. These are BRCA2 or BRCA1 genes. A class of molecules, PARP inhibitors, have shown their effectiveness in the treatment of high-grade ovarian cancers with BRCA1 mutations and are reimbursed in this indication. Currently, two PARPi treatments are being processed by the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products. With the associated reimbursement of biomarkers and drugs, access to diagnosis is no longer a barrier to treatment with targeted therapy. If there are obstacles, it is more difficult to find an acceptable and/or effective refund or the lack of a manufacturer's application file in our system that is supply-driven.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u4	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. This cancer is particularly fulgurating. Breast cancer is about 11,000 new cases for women and 111 for men each year. The triple negative is the most devastating. It must be recognised that today I receive dozens of testimonies from women who have to turn to therapies that are being set up in Germany in particular. These therapies work and their life expectancy is present because they are in remission and they encourage us to take the step towards these foreign therapies that have demonstrated their abilities. This is all the more important because when you are affected by this cancer, you want to live and you must not find yourself in the situation of having to choose between living or not living for lack of means to be able to cure yourself. I therefore invite you to continue the fight to label and offer as soon as possible access to these therapies which have proved their worth in Germany but also to Belgian patients who have been able to testify.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u5	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u6	The pandemic has revealed many gaps in the health system in Europe. This was true for the Member States themselves, with deficiencies in preparedness and tracing and a lack of equipment, protective equipment and testing. Furthermore, we saw the need to protect the most vulnerable effectively and quickly. However, there were also gaps at a higher level, for example the lack of uniformity in the approach and solidarity between countries. The European Commission has therefore launched the EU Health Union within the current European Treaty framework. That health union is actually a bundling of initiatives and I give the three most important dimensions. Firstly, it concerns the upgrading of the health security framework to better anticipate health risks through a cross-sectoral approach, and to coordinate and strengthen the impact of the Health Security Committee. A European alert phase is also established and an independent advisory committee is set up. In addition, there will be a coordinated medical response at EU level, as well as a binding crisis plan for the EU. All this comes under the reinforcement of the health security framework. Secondly, the mandate of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control is strengthened by the improvement of the monitoring and monitoring system, the coordination of expert networks for the control of outbreaks, the establishment of an automated system for the tracing of contacts and international cooperation and coordination. Thirdly, the mandate of the European Medicines Agency is strengthened to better understand shortages of medicines and medical devices in the event of a state of emergency, to better monitor the quality, safety and efficacy of potential medicines and to promote the smooth functioning of expert panels. So far, the three major dimensions of the health union, as I see them. In addition, discussions are ongoing on the establishment of the EU Health Emergency Preparedness and Response Authority, HERA, by analogy with the Barda in the United States. We expect a regulatory initiative in this area in the autumn. Our country strongly supports such initiatives by the European Commission, which can be set up without amending treaty texts. In doing so, we are moving in the right direction within the Treaty. You could argue that if a genuine health union is to be anchored, there is still a need for a treaty change. But such a thing can take a long time and requires a lot of negotiation. There are no conversations about this at the moment. If you are asking for my personal opinion, I think we should bear that in mind, for example in the context of the conference on the future of Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u7	Minister, I am somewhat concerned by your answer. Our party is strongly in favour of using our European cooperation, which is unique, particularly in the context of the coronapandemic. It has been rewarded in certain ways. Moreover, I would like to refer to Mrs Depoorter's motion for a resolution, Mrs Gijbels and myself, in order to promote the European approach for future pandemics. We call on you to address a number of issues at European level, for example, avoiding trade restrictive measures and using European solidarity. I am concerned when I hear you talking about treaty changes, which you undoubtedly mean that additional powers in this area should also be transferred to the European Union. I do not think that is the right approach. There are so many differences, among other things, in health care between the different Member States, and each Member State must remain able to choose how far it goes in providing health care and defining its health policy. The European Union cannot decide these matters for us, just because the differences are so great. We can even see differences in our own country. We see, for example, that Flanders is much more committed to primary health care, while Wallonia is being referred to specialists much more quickly. If the differences in our country are so great, how would one policy be defined at European level? I say yes to European cooperation, coordination and support. But giving Europe powers in this area does not seem to me to be the right way forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u8	Mr President, I cannot refer to my written questions because they were submitted more than a month ago and request an update. I will briefly summarise the questions. As you know, I follow very well the measures on nurses and support for this profession. My question was submitted to get an update on that. The 'white rage' fund has meanwhile been approved and it is good that my question No. 55017564C was linked to it because it is about how it is measured in practice for the tasks we mentioned during the parliamentary discussion and to which the cabinet would give answers. How is it measured what the bestaffining in terms of nursing and care staff is today? If you have the measurements, how many are they? How will it be measured whether the measures taken by the White Rage Fund in particular will reduce the workload? Secondly, as regards the 300 euro consumer cheque for hospital staff, you said last time that you referred to the agreement between the health care institutions and the publishers of those cheques. I would like to hear from you how far that is going. Thirdly, as far as the IFIC is concerned, I would also like to have an update. Finally, as far as the incentive premium is concerned, you referred in your last reply to the RIZIV and the Royal Decree. At that time, you expected the KB to be completed. My question is whether that expired as you suspected? When will all the measures be completed and can the care staff and nurses expect those cents on their account?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u9	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, there are actually three questions before us: Question No 55016708C on extra hands on the bed; Question No 55016980C on measures to improve the remuneration of nurses; Question No 55017564C on measurement methods and evaluation, the question to which you referred. I propose that I start with the answer to that last question and then return to the two previous questions. So I will first deal with your question about the measurement methods and the Health Care Staff Fund. The agreement between the social partners, reached in mid-March 2021, has made it possible to specify criteria eligible for expenditure on job creation and improving the working conditions of nursing staff who could be borne by the care staff by the year 2020. The agreement also allowed the content of the report on the implementation of the budgets, a report which the hospital must send to the local social consultation body. I shall also specify the content and criteria of the report. A first criterion deals with the net creation of employment. Firstly, it concerns the type of staff eligible, secondly, the type of recruitment that is eligible. Thirdly, recruitment must be reduced by recruitment financed by other means. Fourthly, on the use of resources for these recruitments, prior local social consultation should have been carried out with a view to an agreement within the local social consultation body, with the exception of recruitments, functions and expenditure carried out before 1 October 2020, which should simply be the subject of information to the local social consultation body, with the exception of recruitments financed by the social Maribel, for which in any case there should be an agreement in the local social consultation body. A second criterion concerns the improvement of working conditions. A third criterion is the reporting, on which it was agreed what its content should be. It was then said that a copy of the report had to be sent to my administration by 31 March 2021, which also happened. The analysis of the reports of more than 160 hospitals is currently being carried out by my administration. This should allow proper evaluation of the use of the Fund's resources. So I do not have an analysis of this, Mrs Van Camp, but I hope to have it in a few weeks' time. In doing so, I have zoomed in on your last question about criteria, reporting and methodology. You also had questions about the self-employed home nurses. The section of the Health Care Staff Fund on self-employed home nurses refers to allowances for nurses and healthcare professionals entering or re-entering the home care sector. These fees are linked to a training course and a practical placement. In addition, the possibility of intervention in administrative burdens is created, so that they can spend more time actually taking care of the people. Now it seems to be a more complex exercise to work out a balanced proposal. The administration is still in consultation with representatives of the self-employed home nurses. I come to the distribution and use of the budget of the Health Care Staff Fund for the year 2021. You said that the bill was recently adopted, so I am not going to say any more about it. As far as consumer cheques are concerned, my information is that these agreements are being implemented on the ground. Indeed, that calls for further consultation. I'm sorry to disappoint you, but I don't have exact figures. I was told that hospitals in the field are currently making the necessary efforts to award consumer cheques as quickly as possible, either by extending the existing contract to issue cheques or by means of a specific tender. Then you were also talking about the IFIC. As regards the deployment of the IFIC under the Social Agreement 2021-2022, the transition to 100% deployment in the federal private sectors, which will apply from 1 June, is fully prepared. Discussions are still ongoing in the federal public sectors. My policy cell follows that up close. As regards the one-off incentive premium for self-employed home nurses, the KB was published on 26 April. The RIZIV has communicated on its website, where the operational procedure is explained. Caregivers should not apply for the one-off incentive premium. They had until 17 May to register through MyRiziv an account number on which the premium is paid. If they already had an account number that could be used for the premium, they would not have to do anything. In the meantime, the required data are collected, inter alia from the National Intermutualist College and the National Institute for Social Insurance of the Self-employed, so that the RIZIV can process them and determine to whom amount is granted, in accordance with the modalities set out in the decision. If everything goes well, I will speak in two words, Mrs Van Camp, because I know that you attach great importance to this, then the actual payment will normally be made in June.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u10	Minister, I am pleased that you take the questions of the nurses to heart. As far as the content is concerned, I do of course regret that the announcement always comes very early and the implementation is late. If everything goes well and the premium appears on the health care staff's accounts, the better, but that is a very long way to go. Moreover, we are not 100% sure of the correct use. After all, you say that the data on the Health Care Staff Fund is still being processed. As a result of legislative work in this area, we had already noted that we feared that the funds would also be used in other services if they were not anchored to the care staff. From a practical point of view, I am getting signals that there are recruitments to services such as ICT, pharmacies and so on with the money from the Health Care Staff Fund, which is intended for nursing. I am therefore very curious to see what the analysis of the data will yield and I hope that this can be corrected. With regard to self-employed nursing, and self-employed nursing in general, I understand that the consultations are still ongoing. So we'll definitely follow that up. The discussions on consumer cheques are therefore still ongoing, so that you do not have exact figures on the agreements concluded. I hope that this will be done as soon as possible, so that the staff can count on these benefits. IFIC is also still in preparation, but some progress has been made on the incentive premium with the RB recently published. Hopefully these resources will then be on the health care staff's account in June, but we will certainly, as usual, ask for this in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u11	Mr. President, Minister, many foreign studies, such as The Lancet or Johns Hopkins, demonstrate the beneficial effects of psychedelic substances on depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder or eating disorders. These substances can be hallucinogenic fungi, LSD or MDMA. This is about mental medicine, not recreational use. For the time being, these drugs are illegal and any use is punishable, even for therapeutic use. The Psychedelic Society Belgium group, which brings together some 20 specialists, calls for the removal of psychedelic substances from the Belgian Penal Code. To do so, the drug law would have to be amended, which has been done several times through a royal decree for the use of methadone or cannabis, for example. At a time when the mental health of Belgians is at the lowest because of the pandemic, it may be necessary to break some taboos in order to use an arsenal with the widest possible pharmacological range. Minister, what is your opinion on the decriminalization of certain psychedelic substances for medical use? Do you intend, in the course of the legislature or according to the evolution of your thinking, to amend the drug law by a royal decree so that some of these substances can be applied in matters of mental health?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u12	Mr President, Mr Prévot, no further studies on these substances are currently under way in Belgium. Studies have been approved by competent authorities and ethical committees in other EU countries with regard to MDMA or psilocybine. A study is approved only by the competent authority of the Netherlands for LSD. With regard to the decriminalisation of these substances, LSD and MDMA are included in Annex IIA of the Royal Decree of 6 September 2017 regulating narcotics and psychotropic substances. These are substances with a potential for abuse that pose a serious risk to public health and a low therapeutic value. This results from their classification in Table 1 of the UN Convention on Psychotropic Substances. However, medical use is not excluded provided that it is very limited and supervised by persons working in or authorized by the Government in medical or scientific institutions. It is therefore not a ban on medical use, as is the case in the United States, but a controlled use taking into account the risk of abuse. For hallucinogenic fungi, the active substance, psilocybine, also falls under Appendix IIA. Mushrooms themselves fall under Annex IV. This means that these fungi remain controlled substances but that medical use should not be specifically restricted or restricted to the above-mentioned establishments. With regard to my position on this issue, I would add that the medical use of a substance must be based on quality studies, which make it possible to assess, among other things, the risk-benefit balance for a therapeutic indication. If this balance is favourable, the substance may be authorised for this therapeutic indication. Given that the substances in question have a significant potential for abuse, it seems clear to me that the benefits will have to be large enough for these substances to be authorised as a medicine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u13	Minister, thank you for your position. I fully agree with you. Use can only be considered on the basis of studies and this famous and sacrosanct risk-benefit principle, which is of particular interest to me. I wanted to ask you about what I had read about this famous Psychedelic Society Belgium group, which brings together about twenty socialists, and which, perhaps without nuances – which is certainly their concern – calls for the release of psychedelic substances from the Penal Code. Indeed, the debate can take place without taboos. I hear that no new studies are being launched in Belgium at the moment. I hear all the reservations in various reports. Like you, I advocate prudence. For me, use may be considered, but on the basis of clear studies, which is not the case at the moment, and on the basis of the famous risk-benefit principle that you have recalled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u14	Mr President, Minister, this question has been pending for some time, because our questioning sessions have been postponed several times due to unforeseen circumstances. But I still think it's important to talk to you about it. In early March 2021 an article was published in Het Nieuwsblad about the sugar tax in the United Kingdom. There we could hear very positive signals. After a two-year start-up period, the first results came in. This is a higher tax than the one we use in Belgium for about 20 euro cents per bottle of soft drinks. The UK figures show that this really encourages companies to make healthier versions of their soft drinks without sugar. Moreover, the tax would not have a negative impact on these companies. It is also interesting that the yield is used for sensitisation of healthy diets. That has always been a flaw in our sugar tax, I think. That's why it's not really about a sugar tax. After all, I think I'm as allergic to that word tax as you are. It's actually about a pricing strategy. Price controls will ensure that the healthy version is the cheapest, or at least has the most attractive price. There are also a number of levers in the European food from farmer to board strategy to work around price strategies. The Flemish Institute of Healthy Life, you are not unknown, is also an absolute supporter of this. In the article of Het Nieuwsblad of 12 March 2021 you did not want to anticipate the content, but you did admit that there is a future plan for nutrition and health in the pipeline. If you do not want to give substance at the moment, I certainly want to respect that. What is the timing of the future plan on nutrition and health for our country? How do you look at the soft drink tax in the UK and our current soft drink tax at federal level? How do you view the plans of the farmer-to-eat strategy and healthy food not to speak of a tax, but of price strategies? In particular, I am interested in how we can make the choice of healthy food the most logical among consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u15	As a background there is the Federal Food and Health Plan that was already launched in 2006. It is my intention, within the framework of this plan, to implement a number of new actions for the period from 2021 to 2025, within the five priority strategic lines. I'll just sum them up. The first is the commitment of the private sector. This has to do with the reformulation and nutritional improvement of the products and food marketing. The second line of action concerns breastfeeding and malnutrition. The third line of action concerns the shortage of micronutrients. The fourth focus is on monitoring and food consumption surveying. The fifth line of action concerns scientific research. My administration is currently working on the preparation of these new actions, in a context which is, of course, special but which has shown that healthy and balanced nutrition and sufficient physical activity are very important. I will list some of the initiatives that have already been taken in this context. As part of the first line of action of the federal plan, the commitment of the private sector, in 2012 together with Fevia and Comeos, the Covenant Balanced Food was set up to reduce the content of salt, sugar, fat and calories. Since 2012, the different sectors have implemented nutritional improvements on a voluntary basis. In 2018, Euromonitor carried out an independent monitoring. It came to the conclusion that between 2012 and 2016 we consumed 14 kilocalories per day from pre-packaged products less. A person who is overweight or obese has a daily surplus of 50 or 103 kilocalories, respectively. The reduction of 14 kilocalories per day can therefore be seen as a step in the right direction. Those efforts are still ongoing. A new monitoring is under way from 2018 to 2020, of which we do not yet have any results. In the framework of the Nutri-Track project, Sciensano is also working with the FPS Public Health to monitor the products sold on the market since 2018 to measure the adaptation of the composition of food products of the food industry and of distributors. Subsequently, in order to encourage the food sector to adapt the compositions of products and to increase transparency at product level, Belgium has joined the Nutri-Score nutrition logo since April 2019. That logo makes it possible to make healthier choices and compare the products within the same product category. The Belgian distributors have joined that logo in large numbers by implementing it for their own brand products, but also for the brand products on their sales site and/or on the price labels. Nutri-Score is a powerful nudging tool for health products, for which we advocate a generalised and even mandatory use at European level. Finally, in 2016, under the tax shift, the federal government introduced a further excise duty on sugary and sweet drinks, an increase of 3 euro cents per litre and 1 euro cent per can. That increase is not large and is not enough in itself to change food habits, so I think we should look at it further. In my opinion, the use of taxation for the purpose of a healthy food policy is really worth a debate. Of course, this requires a great deal of consultation. One must think in terms of positive incentives and, of course, take into account the fact that the most vulnerable social and/or economic groups are often also groups most in need of improving the health of their diet. All these elements need to be considered, although I do not think I should convince you, Mrs Creemers, when using taxation in a healthy food strategy. Personally, I think that is absolutely worth a debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I am pleased to hear that you certainly think it is worth a debate to see how we can give positive incentives to this effect in taxation. You mention a number of very legitimate things, such as the fact that we have been able to reduce the number of kilocalories in pre-packaged products. I have read the studies on salt and sugar, and steps have certainly been taken in this area. I know we don't get there in a few months, but what we have to go to is that it has to be cheaper to make fresh lasagna with ingredients from close to home than a pre-packaged lasagna, so we have ourselves in control of how much fats and sugar we put in there. The Farm to Fork Strategy gives us the tools to go for that in full. I am absolutely a fan of the Nutri-Score, but I am also looking forward to initiatives, such as a number of supermarkets that are already taking place, including the sustainability score on the label. You will certainly find a partner in us to take great steps between now and 2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u17	Mr President, I would like to refer to the question that has been put, for which I have drawn the inspiration from Mrs Depoorter, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u18	It goes without saying that overweight increases the risk that covid patients end up on intensive care. Several university and non-university centres followed up patients after the first and second covid golf after they were discharged from the hospital. However, the implementation of the follow-up varies according to the centres concerned. In addition to the obvious points of attention, such as pneumological rehabilitation and kinesitherapy, some centres also pay attention to the nutritional condition of the patient. A consultation with a dietician is currently not reimbursed by compulsory sickness insurance. Uniform guidelines for follow-up following a COVID-19 disease are now being developed. It identifies the main needs of patients and what is currently not or insufficiently regulated. We really need to look at the nutritional aspect. More generally, obesity is a growing health problem. Between 1998 and 2018, i.e. 20 years of time, the number of obese persons in Belgium with a BMI of 30% or more increased from 10.8 % to 15.9 %. In addition, surveys by Sciensano show that the coronapandemia caused a negative impact on body weight for one in three adults. We are now working on a dynamic multi-annual budget line 2020-2024 for the RIZIV with a focus on effective care, and we are also developing strategic objectives. There is no doubt that obesity needs to be addressed. The possibility of starting a path of obesity, with a multidisciplinary approach, is now being examined. Finally, in the approach of COVID-19, people between 45 and 64 years of age with a BMI of 30 or more priority are eligible for a covid vaccine in order to avoid severe disease.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u19	I understand that measures have not yet been taken outside the regular framework. Perhaps you could look into the matter? I assume that was not evident during the most acute phase, but in the meantime hopefully we have already made some progress in our approach and it seems interesting to me to focus more on the target group that has experienced the disease. I hope that you will continue to work on this and that you will take this into account for your long-term plans. Mrs Creemers has already mentioned a structural approach to obesity, but that is independent of my question, which is genuinely concerned with the possibility for covid patients who have already been admitted and are at that time aware of the risk factor of obesity, in order to be better supervised. As you said yourself, the non-refunding of a dietician's consultation will not help, and hopefully you will take this into account in your long-term plans. You already have the support of the N-VA Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u20	Mr President, I am aware of the information on what is in the American press regarding what the Biden administration is considering doing. I don't think anything's been decided. So we need to be a little careful with this information. We'll follow that, of course. It is true that a number of American scientists have been working on this particular problem for many years. They advocate the introduction of measures which drastically reduce the nicotine content of tobacco products placed on the market to a level that is no longer addictive. Of course, I am satisfied with the attention given to tobacco in the questions, because I believe that we should also develop ambitious plans on this issue. I have already said that, during this legislative period, I want to develop a long-term national strategy with clear targets for reducing tobacco consumption among young people and the general population, with the aim of achieving a smoke-free generation within 20 years. That plan should be drawn up within the overall Drugs Policy Cell. I do not want to anticipate the outcome of discussions between experts that will take place in this context. However, I note that such a measure is not currently included in the WHO framework agreement on tobacco control, which sets the ideal course for policy in this area. Moreover, the nicotine content currently authorised in tobacco products sold in Belgium is laid down in a European directive. This type of issue must therefore be settled at European Union level and not at Belgian level. Finally, no country has yet implemented this provision. As a result, I cannot yet say what the concrete impact of this on tobacco consumption is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for the honest answer. Perhaps by the time the plan is put in place it will be clear whether it can be implemented, in the United States or with us. At least I hope you'll look into it. It is certainly not a bad idea to focus on sufficiently scientifically based measures, but measures such as these do not need ten studies to establish that they can also help to reduce tobacco consumption in the long term. We could be pioneering with this. Not all measures in this area need to be supported by a large number of studies. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has already referred to it, and it is important to guide the population with this kind of action in making the best choice. We certainly endorse that. We hope you will want to see if it would be interesting to pioneer with this when you come up with your tobacco plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u22	Mr President, Minister, allow me to ask this question about the worrying use of synthetic cannabis. This chemical manufactured for its psychotropic effects appears to have effects more or less similar to those of cannabis. It appears to be in many forms, including the liquid form to be put into the vapouses. However, it appears that health professionals have very little information on the pharmacological characteristics of synthetic cannabis and its adverse effects on the body. Currently, two main trends concern some experts, namely the spraying of synthetic cannabis on real cannabis, and the use of this substance in the form of oil to be inserted into electronic cigarettes. The impact on health is a legitimate concern, while to date a death is to be deplored because of this oil. Randomly sprayed, the product would be difficult to dose, making it potentially more dangerous than natural cannabis. Minister, do you have any specific statistics on the use of synthetic cannabis in our territory? Is there a trend in the use of synthetic cannabis in the context of the health crisis we are experiencing? Many unknowns persist in the pharmacology and toxicology of synthetic cannabinoids. Will new studies be carried out on the subject in the near future? What conclusions do you draw in the face of the trivialization of synthetic cannabis, but especially in the face of the health consequences of these products for these consumers? To stem this consumption, what protective measures could you adopt, in partnership with your federal counterparts and federated entities?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u23	Mr President, Mrs Taquin, first of all, there is no collection of data on the use of synthetic cannabis. No available studies can provide accurate statistics on this subject for Belgium. Then, for the time being, no studies or projects are under way concerning synthetic cannabinoids in particular. However, Belgian toxicology laboratories constantly improve and evaluate the quality of their analyses in order to be able to identify and report on these new substances in a timely manner. The information obtained is then exchanged nationally and internationally and contributes to the market surveillance of medicines in our country. Some laboratories are conducting intensive research on synthetic cannabinoids and their health risks. Since March 2020, Sciensano has been conducting an online survey to investigate the impact of the pandemic and the impact of measures taken on drug use and the drug market. However, this report does not assess the use of synthetic cannabinoids. I cannot conclude that the use of synthetic cannabis is trivialized. Rather, it seems to me that the consumer is not always informed of the substance present or of possible adverse and toxic effects, as he thinks he has purchased cannabis or THC. For information, synthetic cannabis is a new psychoactive substance (PSN) and therefore has no relation to conventional cannabis. Most online vendors are located abroad. For this reason, Belgium cannot, in practice, act against these websites. In conclusion, I can only encourage my counterparts in the Communities and Regions to develop a targeted prevention policy. With regard to federal jurisdiction, the online sale of new psychoactive substances, including synthetic cannabis, has been a phenomenon that has been known for at least 10 years, for which the BEWSD, Sciensano's drug surveillance system, regularly issues warnings. This phenomenon also led to the drafting of the generic legislation, which entered into force at the end of September 2017. As soon as we see the presence of a new substance, our legislation is actually adapted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u24	Minister, thank you for the answers. I can only stress your vigilance with regard to this new product and encourage, as you said, your counterparts in the federated entities to work on prevention. Indeed, this substance is known and appears to be widely used. Checks and analyses are required. It will be interesting to launch data collections to obtain accurate statistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u25	According to Sciensano, nearly 20,000 people are now infected with HIV in Belgium. The number of new cases increased by about 4% in 2019 and 2020, after falling by 28% between 2012 and 2018. The crisis that we are going through must not obscure this other epidemic that we have been experiencing since the 1980s. The AIDS Prevention Platform thus invites to strengthen screening strategies, such as the self-test available in pharmacy since 2016 in Belgium. This blood test delivers within 15 minutes a reliable result to detect an infection dating back more than three months. This self-test is accompanied by a kit with an explanation of its use and interpretation. However, according to the platform, testing is still too late despite the tools put in place, due to several factors: biased estimation of the risk involved, feeling of not being involved, fear of the result, anticipation of stigma, etc. There are therefore a number of factors that do not favour this screening. Minister, do you have any figures on how many HIV self-tests have been issued since 2016 in our country? Have any studies been carried out to determine the place of this tool in the context of prevention, but also to assess the support of people tested positive for HIV through self-test? A comprehensive national HIV plan was launched in 2014 under the leadership of Laurette Onkelinx. Are you considering evaluating and updating this important plan? Finally, are you planning a consultation with your colleagues from the federated entities within this framework? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u26	Mr Prévot, the market for medical devices (including medical devices for in vitro diagnostics) is an open market (an EC-labelled device) for free movement on the European market. Unfortunately, we do not have figures on the distribution of medical devices in Belgium. The answer is frustrating for me too, Mr. Prévot. For the studies carried out, the design of this type of test is an early diagnosis and easily accessible if it is of course independent of the prevention of infection for the person himself. Such early detection prevents an infected person from infecting others by ignorance. I do not currently have any specific data on this subject. However, the value of early detection of this type of test is approved by experts in this field. With regard to the initial accompaniment of positive testers, general practitioners play an important role before the patient is referred to an HIV reference centre. The Federal Centre of Expertise for Health Care (KCE) has developed an online tool for the diagnosis, treatment and monitoring of HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases. This tool was developed in collaboration with field associations. It is intended to support front-line practitioners, primarily general practitioners, when addressing sexual health issues. The previous national HIV plan launched by Ms.Onkelinx covered the period 2014-2019. Consultation on prevention with federated entities is organised within a specific working group of the Interministerial Conference. It will resume its work as soon as possible and address, inter alia, the theme of HIV and policy responses to it in terms of prevention, diagnosis, treatment and quality of life for people living with HIV.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers. Like you, although I understand the cause, I am somewhat frustrated that there are no figures available on the evaluation of the use of self-tests. Indeed, when one targets a problem, it is always interesting to have an overall photograph. I bring you figures that unfortunately show an increase in infections. There's actually a piece of the puzzle missing, but it's not your fault, it's not the government's. I understand, of course, what concerns the free movement of EC-labelled goods and products, which are very difficult, if not impossible to trace. At the level of accompaniment, you did well to remind, general practitioners have an important role to play, before the care in a specialized institution. Finally, with regard to my last question, thank you for recalling that a specific working group is likely to resume this work in the near future and address this issue of HIV. How can we combat the increase in these cases? How can we help infected people live better with this HIV? I will certainly come back to you in the coming months to find out how the work is moving forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u28	Mrs. H annoyance, Xarelto (rivaroxaban) and three other medicines of the same class are commonly referred to as new direct anticoagulants. I understand in your question a concern about the high price level of this class compared to the old anticoagulants. This led to the following solution, a decade ago. Reimbursement of new anticoagulants has been implemented through agreements between firms and INAMI. The various indications to which you refer are indeed the subject of different conventions. I inform you that last week, a new agreement on a new indication of Xarelto has been concluded and will be refunded. This is symptomatic peripheral arterial disease. When you talk about the age of 65 as a reimbursement criterion, I have to say that this is a single condition, with a single specific dosage, for which age is a reimbursement criterion for Xarelto, i.e. a case of coronary artery disease, for a single dosage of 2.5 mg. This condition is determined in a single paragraph of Chapter 4 (section 1.0.1.4.0000). For other circumstances in which Xarelto is reimbursed, age is not a criterion. In addition, at this specific point in Chapter 4, it is clearly stated that younger patients, under 65 years of age, may still be eligible for reimbursement when the patient has certain co-morbidities, namely "diabetes or chronic renal failure at the non-terminal stage, or heart failure, or a history of non-lacunary ischemic stroke more than a month ago". In practice, a young patient has access to reimbursement if he or she suffers from one of these serious diseases. So patients who really need Xarelto have access to it. An extension of the reimbursement criteria for this condition, where age is a criterion, is possible at the end of the convention in question, i.e. March 2022, therefore within a year. I call on the firm to make a financial effort to remove this age criterion in the repayment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u29	Minister, thank you for this additional information. If I understand correctly, we have patients who are younger and who, often for genetic reasons, have to take these anticoagulants for the rest of their lives. Having to give up Sintrom for Xarelto brings a real not negligible comfort of life because this medicine has no interaction with the patient's diet, it is not necessary to adjust the dosage or to carry out blood tests. This may seem obvious, but for these patients, no longer having to wonder if they have taken their treatment and no longer having to monitor their diet will be synonymous with a huge change in their lives. Furthermore, the side effects of Sintrom such as hair loss, osteoporosis and other disorders are not present with Xarelto. For these patients - usually young women - who have to take these anticoagulants for life since the age of 18, it is really essential to be able to access this medication.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u30	Madam, in the context of pharmacovigilance, both pharmaceutical companies responsible for placing contraceptive medicinal products on the market and health authorities such as the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products (AFMPS) monitor the safety of these medicinal products on an ongoing basis. This implies in particular the evaluation of the results of studies on the safety of these medicinal products in order to verify the availability of new data. For each woman requesting hormonal contraception, a risk/benefit analysis should be conducted with a treating physician and/or a gynaecologist. Several factors play a role in this context: smoking, weight, cholesterol, lifestyle, blood pressure, co-morbidities, other medicines, family predisposition to thrombosis, etc. In addition to estimating risk, a number of other factors need to be taken into account when choosing an appropriate contraceptive method. For example, does the woman still want children? Does she respect the treatment enough to take a pill every day? Does she have sexual behaviour at risk? In the basic training of medicine as well as in specialized training in general medicine and gynaecology, doctors are trained to perform this exercise with the patient. Thanks to the refresher courses and the Glem, they also keep up to date with the latest developments. Each option has advantages and disadvantages, but there are enough opportunities on the market in our country to make the most appropriate and informed choice for each patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answer, which seems reassuring. According to the feedback I have, for all women who consult for a contraceptive application, it is still quite rare for the practitioner to perform a complete personal and/or family anamnesis to look for risk factors. In practice, this is not the case, and when there is a disease, the consequences are always dramatic individually. When this happens, it is always hoped that his own case will serve as an example to avoid the worst. I think there is still room to invest more in prevention, in the determinants of health and to clarify these problems in medical studies, which unfortunately is not yet the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u32	Mr President, Minister, there are 16 industrial metal mills in our country, one of which is located in Courcelles, the commune of which I am a mayor. These companies crush fine pieces of cars and other metal waste. When these metals are crushed, toxic substances are released to the atmosphere, contaminate the environment and obviously impact the population living near these facilities. The internal monitoring plan for environmental obligations, i.e. self-control reports, is used to determine what metal mills release into air and water. In addition, these data are used to verify that these companies comply with their environmental permits. In this regard, the emission limit value for polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) is set with a strict standard, particularly in the Walloon Region. Given their carcinogenic characteristics, PCBs, which are chemical compounds, have been banned in our territory since 1986. However, these compounds are still found in waste and are therefore still present in waste treated by metal mills. And, as you know, endocrine disruptors have proven and irreversible consequences on the body. They can impact the thyroid, liver, brain or immune system. This is a real danger to the public health of our citizens. As we know, competencies are growing between the regional and federal levels. As a mayor, I have already been able to request biomonitoring from the regional authorities. This is being implemented at Walloon level, but health and health safety aspects require coordinated work at national level and certainly need to be addressed at federal level as well. Minister, what steps can you take at this level within your federal public health protection jurisdiction? Can you carry out biomonitoring, by/or in collaboration with a federal agency, with the population on the shore of these facilities in our country? What initiatives are being taken with the AFSCA to ensure that controls are carried out at the level of these 16 mills? What actions have been carried out and are they planned by the Public Health FPS in collaboration with the AFSCA Advisory Body, the SciCom Scientific Committee, concerning these pollutions of mills? What analysis is being conducted by your FPS Health services on the reports of the Federal Occupational Risk Agency regarding the health of workers in these companies? Finally, have you undertaken structural cooperation with your regional counterparts on this issue and do you consider it necessary to take initiatives for the European Health and Environment Commissioners to ensure that the owners of these activities comply with the standards in our regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u33	Mr President, Mrs Taquin, my answer will be quite technical, but I think technicality is inevitable here. PCBs are persistent organic pollutants (POPs), which have been internationally regulated for 20 years by the Stockholm Convention and, at the European level, by the various regulations implementing it - the most recent being Regulation 2019/1021, which entered into force on 15 July 2019. Section 3 prohibits the manufacture, placing on the market and use of PCBs, substances listed in Schedule 1 of these Regulations, whether as such, in mixtures or in articles. The use of the articles already in circulation at the time of the entry into force of the first Regulation (850/2004) remained authorized. However, Member States must identify and withdraw from circulation equipment containing more than DM3 0.05 in volume of liquid with a PCB content of more than 0.005% by 31 December 2025 at the earliest date. These include, for example, transformers, capacitors or containers containing liquid stocks. In the present case, Member States are required to comply with this obligation. In 2014, 206 samples of breast milk were collected in the WHO Sixth Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) Study in Breast Milk. The results were compared with those of previous studies. For PCBs, markers were examined in a pooled sample. The results show a sharp decrease of up to 4 picograms per toxic equivalent per gram of fat. The concentration for the sum of the six PCB markers decreases by about 200 nanograms per gram of fat in 2001 – these are two Liège samples, up to 80 nanograms per gram of fat in the Belgian sample of the 2006 group and up to 37.5 nanograms per gram of fat in the 2014-2016 study. I have therefore quoted figures (2001, 2006, 2014, 2016), which show a gradual decrease in nanograms per gram of fat of the six PCB markers (the concentration for the sum of the six PCB markers). Dioxin-like PCBs were only measured from 1991. In 2006, it was concluded that the rates remained more or less the same as in the 1990s. In this study, we see a decrease in the PCB rate from 7 picograms in 2006 to 2.5 picograms in 2014. What initiatives have been taken? In consultation with the Regions, the federal government will soon carry out all the controls it has the competence under the standard law of products. What actions have been taken? With regard to AFSCA, I refer you to my colleague in charge of AFSCA, Minister Clarinval. With regard to the health of workers, I refer you to my colleague in charge of this issue, Federal Minister Dermagne. With regard to your fifth question, under the POP Regulation, PCBs are substances subject to emission reduction provisions with mandatory monitoring in the environment – air, water, land – and reporting to the European Commission, Article 13. Member States must also draw up an action plan to identify, characterize and minimize, with a view to eliminating, as far as possible and as soon as possible, the release of these substances. This report is coordinated by the federal government. The exchange of information with the Regions takes place within the framework of the CCFIE. Member States shall, when considering proposals for the construction of new installations or for significant modification of existing installations using processes that release chemicals listed in Annex 3, give priority to alternative technical or practical processes which have similar utility but which avoid the formation and release of substances listed in Annex 3, without prejudice to Directive 2010/75/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council. The European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) is responsible for compiling the information received from Member States and publishing a synthesis report. Mrs Taquin, you will probably have to read the written version of my text, which is eminently technical.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for this detailed and technical answer. Mrs. Taquin, would you like to reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u35	Minister, thank you for this precise and technical information. I understand that PCBs have been regulated for 20 years for use, for placing on the market, and that it is a prohibited substance. I also hear that there are obligations to be met by 2025, a date that is approaching but not imminent. I am pleased to have been able to draw your attention to this issue and I have no doubt for a moment that you will plunge into its examination, because metal mills still produce PCB standards that are released into the atmosphere, fall back on the ground and pose a danger to the population by ingestion. Metal grinders are found in all corners of Belgium. I therefore urge you to keep an eye on this point. I ask you to have a biomonitoring to compare PCB levels with our population living outside the perimeter of a shredder and with the population living within the perimeter of a shredder, since we do not currently have objective data to differentiate or, in any event, measure the risk exposure of the population living near these shredders. I know that the Walloon Region is taking up the problem with arms and I would like you to take this opportunity to work there at national level, for the population of the other Regions as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u36	Mr Rigot, as you may know, it is the Medical Supply Planning Committee which is responsible for evaluating the planning of doctors. I invite you to consult the publication "Médecins sur le marché du travail 2004-2016". This publication establishes the working force of each medical specialty in Belgium for this period. This report is available on the Public Health FPS website and provides a detailed view of the workforce in general medicine. This study is part of a cycle of work. The following are the basic scenarios of the evolution of the labour force 2016-2036, which relate the supply and demand for care and offer a perspective of the evolution of the labour force in general medicine, if the current conditions remain unchanged. This scenario is also already available on the SPF website. The Commission is currently working to define alternative scenarios for several sensitive specialties, including general medicine. The report on the labour force of general practitioners from 2004 to 2016 provides a detailed answer to the specific questions for 2016. In Tables 19A and B, from page 43 of the report, you will find the distribution of the 12,355 general practitioners active in health care, broken down by communities, regions and provinces, and even by boroughs. You also have density. As of 31 December 2016, it was 10.91 general practitioners per 10,000 inhabitants in Belgium. With respect to the proportion of older general practitioners, you will find the percentage of the active population in health care in three age groups: under 45, professionals aged 45 to 60, and those over 60. For Belgium as a whole, the proportion of general practitioners over the age of 60 is 33.75 %. That's a high figure. That's the challenge! That must be of concern to us. The Planning Commission issued an opinion on quota 2027 by increasing the federal quota to 1,517 traineeships. Nevertheless, I stress that the Federal Government is only responsible for the overall quota, whereas the Communities are responsible for the subquotas. A Flemish Planning Commission has been set up and is in the process of being established for the French Community. I can only invite the various stakeholders to consult each other. Together, we will be able to boost the measures to be taken to provide the Belgian population with access to a medical offer that will meet their needs. The group practice that you suggest is one of the elements to consider, of course, but cannot be sufficient and must be considered in a more comprehensive system of measures where each level of power has a role to play within its competencies. Currently, these discussions are conducted within the Health Professions Working Group of the Interdepartmental Conference. An inter-federal planning body in which all relevant actors are present seems indispensable to me. I am currently analysing with my administration how this body can take its place.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u37	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. Indeed, the issue is both federal and community. As you mentioned, this issue is the ageing of general practitioners and a desertion of rural areas, a phenomenon that is also encountered in the field of pharmacies which close in small entities thus forcing citizens to move to cities. We may have the same phenomenon for general practitioners. Every effort must be made because front-line medicine is essential, because it responds to a patient's need, a need for contact and social and medical proximity. I count on you to continue this reflection on the means, quotas to be implemented and the INAMI numbers, which are perhaps underused by some general practitioners today. This reflection must take place in an interdepartmental conference with your colleagues in Health, Training and Academic Education to motivate the troops to come to the patient's bedside and avoid the patient being forced to move. I'll pay attention to this case just as much as you do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u38	Mr Prévot, according to the ECDC (European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control), Belgium offers a large number of epidemiological surveillances dedicated to the topic of antimicrobial resistance, although some protocols and methodologies still need to be improved. Sciensano collects national baseline data on the occurrence of care-related infections and on antibiotic resistance in our country, in consultation with BAPCOC (Belgian Antibiotic Policy Coordination Committee). The use of antibiotics is also monitored, as it remains the main factor influencing resistance. The surveillance of Sciensano also follows the evolution of infections and regularly estimates the burden for society. In addition, a study conducted in 2018 concluded that an estimated 530 deaths are attributed annually to antibiotic resistance in Belgium. A single health surveillance report - the BEL MAP -, combining human and veterinary surveillance data, is being developed and is part of the One Health approach of the future national antimicrobial resistance plan. Indeed, Belgium is just a few weeks away from having a national One Health AMR plan, structured around ten strategic axes and comprising hundreds of measures. New provisions are thus foreseen to strengthen the actions and efforts already undertaken in the fight against the AMR for many years. This plan takes into account the human, animal and environmental health aspects in accordance with the One World, One Health principle, promoting interconnection between these pillars of health. It was coordinated by the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment and developed in collaboration with all federal institutions and federated entities, while allowing for consultation with the various professional sectors. Belgium participates in international exchanges on the AMR and is already contributing to many European and global projects in this field. One of the strategic axes of the national AMR plan is, moreover, specifically the strengthening of international cooperation for the achievement of national and international objectives. The importance of such cooperation, particularly on public health issues, was underlined by the current health crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u39	Mr Minister, I have been questioned by these bacteria that resist our most powerful antibiotics and that would kill - it is obviously a "grey figure" - 68,000 people every year in Europe and the United States. I am talking about "grey figure" because the data are not available in middle- and low-income countries and one imagines that, in these countries, lethality must be even higher. Minister, thank you for taking the moment of the situation and for taking stock of these superbacteria. According to your explanations, we realize that Belgium is clearly one of the good students in monitoring these superbacteria and that it is already contributing to a large number of projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u40	Since 2016, the application has been downloaded 2,859 times for iOS and about 2,300 times for Android. That's an estimate. The data collected via DrawingNet allow the exposure of the Belgian population to tick bites over time, i.e. per year or over several years, and to be monitored in space. That's how we can do surveillance. The aim is not to estimate the total number of tick bites in Belgium, which is impossible because the user group is not representative of the entire population and because no denominator is known for the anonymous detectors. For 2020 there are no specific data on the percentage of infected ticks. A prevalence study on tick pathogens was conducted in the period April-October 2017 and is currently repeated. The data for 2020 are still incomplete. Nevertheless, preliminary analyses indicate a lower number of cases of Lyme disease in 2020 compared to previous years. On the other hand, the number of tick bites reported was higher. This suggests that there is indeed underreporting. The workload caused by the covid crisis can certainly play a role in this. There may also be underdiagnosis, because some patients have not consulted a doctor. I cannot assess the extent to which these factors play. A growing awareness of TekenNet in Wallonia is a possible explanation for the increased difference in the number of reported tick bites in Flanders and Wallonia. However, I cannot confirm that. There are also other possible causes, such as an effective increase in the number of ticks, or perhaps differences in the weather conditions, with a strong drought in Flanders in 2018. Those are all hypotheses I can't confirm based on surveillance, but we'll follow that up. There is no poll to estimate the percentage of the population aware of the ability to report tick bites. The collection of the sign runs from April to the end of October. They are then screened for species and prepared for DNA extraction. The research on the germs themselves is planned for spring 2022. We therefore expect results from this study during the year 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u41	Minister, we must continue to pay attention to this, especially in these times. We're getting out much more now, there's a lot more walking. That's gonna increase the exposure to ticks a lot. It is important that as many people as possible know that there is such a possibility of reporting, because, frankly, I was not aware of it myself. There are now people with long-lasting symptoms after going through covid. The symptoms of lyme may resemble the symptoms of lung covid, including fatigue, muscle pain, joint pain. It is important to be attentive to that. If there were to be a further analysis of tick bites and then also of diseases, there should be very good communication to the care providers, so that they remain attentive to this and check on them at an appropriate time, so that the proper treatment can be given.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u42	Mr President, this will be a long answer for an extremely short oral question. I have indeed set aside an additional budget of €20.8 million which is operationalised through a contract with the hospital (contract B4). This has nothing to do with a bed freeze as in Projects 107. Maybe that was your main concern. I'll tell you what's going on. On 27 April 2021, in a communication addressed to all general and psychiatric hospitals, I announced these measures in detail and provided the following information. To strengthen residential or semi-residential psychiatric care (K or k services) for children and adolescents in the short term, two measures will be implemented. First, the number of psychiatric hospital services for children and adolescents (K, k) in psychiatric and general hospitals will be increased in a sustainable manner. Second, liaison teams will be temporarily added to each Child and Youth Mental Health Network (CSMN). As part of these measures, we are working with Corona and GEMS in data collection and monitoring to identify and assess the pressure on child and adolescent psychiatry services. In this context, the hospital services concerned undertake to cooperate. I'll give you a little more details. There will be an intensification of comprehensive child-psychiatric services, (K) or part-time (k) through an increase in the number of staff. The number of staff in the services with full-time or part-time beds or hospital spaces and the For-K children's units, including crisis beds, will be increased by one full-time equivalent for eight K or For-K beds (full-time) or night places k (part-time) at a rate of 1.36 full-time equivalent for eight k places. This will take place from 15 April 2021. For a full-time equivalent, we are financing €75,000 under this measure, including operating costs. This increase is based on the opinions of the Federal Council of Hospital Institutions and the Committee for the New Mental Health Policy for Children and Adolescents (COMSMEA). With an increase in the number of staff in the K services, we want not only to reach more children and young people with serious and complex mental problems, but also to speed up the flow of these services. We also want to help prevent disruptions in child and youth care trajectories and optimize continuity of care and support. This strengthening should enable effective and integrated collaboration between K services and other mental health care actors. In addition, we want to offer more opportunities to actively cooperate with the family environment during admission, to prepare with it the transition to the family context, to support it and to empower it. The aim is to ensure a smooth transition for every child and youth in K services. As regards the creation of additional places in hospital services via liaison teams, to add liaison teams by geographical area of the SMEA network, we have based ourselves on a theoretical approach of two teams of 2.7 full-time equivalents for eight beds or places. Such a team shall consist of at least one full-time equivalent psychologist and orthopaedagogue, at least 1.2 full-time equivalent psychiatric nurse or educator with expertise in child psychiatry and one child psychiatrist for a maximum of half a full-time equivalent. From 15 April, for each geographical area of the SMEA network, we will finance a maximum of two teams in the amount of EUR 489 425, including operating costs. The additional members of the liaison teams will use their expertise in the area of child psychiatry in other non-psychiatric hospital services such as emergency and paediatric services, as well as in the services for adults for the transitional age (16-23 years). If the liaison team is linked to adult psychiatric beds, the group work for these children must be sufficiently separate from the regular adult psychiatric population, with the aim of treating children, adolescents and young adults with serious and complex psychiatric problems on the spot, or to temporarily stabilize them in anticipation of mobile, outpatient, residential or semi-residential treatment, always on the basis of clear agreements between the relevant partners of the SMEA network. By deploying these liaison teams, we temporarily create greater admission capacity for children and adolescents in situations of psychological vulnerability. Teams can make an undeniable contribution to optimizing the continuity of care and support for children, adolescents and young adults. These teams can also give impetus to the development of specialized supply for this target group. Clear, concrete, easily accessible and achievable agreements between all relevant partners in the provision of mobile, ambulatory and semi-residential care within the geographical area or the SMEA network are a sine qua non for the proper functioning and integration of liaison teams. So, Mrs Fonck, there is some detail on the proposed use of this additional budget of EUR 20.8 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answer. The need for health care in child psychiatry is clearly insufficient and was already so before the pandemic, which has only worsened and exacerbated the situation. In itself, therefore, financial reinforcement is certainly positive. There are, however, some questions as to how to ensure the correct and sufficient accessibility and geographical coverage of children and adolescents throughout our territory. I know you're aware of the situation, and I'm trying to see how we can make a positive difference. Obviously, given the lack of programming for the opening of new K beds at day and night, your decision is timely to increase the number of existing K beds at day and night, but geographic accessibility is problematic. Thus, the Walloon Region is largely in deficit and has a completely inadequate geographical coverage. For programming reasons and given the fact that there are in particular more beds in the Brussels Region, it is impossible today to strengthen the geographical offer for this accessibility in the Walloon Region. Mr President, I apologize for the somewhat technical nature of my speech. But finding a solution to this problem is a terribly important issue for these children and for these families. Minister, I note that there is no opening space in your answer. I believe that for a good mental health policy it would be essential to revise the programming taking into account objective elements. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the current key to the conversion of bed indexes is unfavourable when it comes to converting into K beds. This is clearly a deterrent for hospitals. In addition to their extremely difficult financial situation, this does not induce hospitals to develop K-beds. In this regard, it would be possible to strengthen our child-psychiatric mental health care offering by finding different complementary responses to those you put on the table. I hope that you will be attentive and that a space for discussion and dialogue can be opened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u44	Mr. Secretary, heart failure has been increasing in recent years. The GP is an important link in the diagnosis of heart failure. For years, all the directives have said that the determination of pro-GNP is very important. Nevertheless, this will not be refunded and the patient will pay for the costs. It's 20 euros for a test, which isn't nothing. Mr Minister, why is pro-GNP not yet repaid today, when it is an essential part of the diagnosis of heart failure? Will you work on the refund?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u45	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u46	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u47	Mr President, there is also a question from Mr Warmoes, but he is not here. I have an overall answer, which also takes into account Mr Warmoes' question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u48	Minister, the problem is the same as last week. Since the committee meeting has been postponed several times, we have tabled the same question with two times, because we did not know when the committee meeting would take place and whether Mr Warmoes or myself would ask the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u49	Mr President, it is a little complicated, because Mrs Depoorter's question contains a lot of elements. That is not a reproach, but I must organise my answer in order to do so. For starters, this too is an issue about intellectual property. When it comes to this, I must of course also refer to the competence of the Minister for Economic Affairs and to specific European legislation, in particular the Regulation 469/2009 on the supplementary protection certificate for medicinal products. The reason for this so-called ABC regulation is that research into the marketing of medicinal products takes a very long time. European pharmaceutical legislation, in particular Directive 2001/83, also known as Codex Medicines, does not affect European intellectual property legislation, but provides that a generic medicinal product may not be placed on the market for a period of 10 years since the original proprietary medicinal product was authorised to be placed on the market. No results from clinical or preclinical trials should be submitted for the application for marketing authorisation for a generic medicinal product after eight years. Such specific protection measures therefore exist in European legislation for medicinal products, but not for medical devices, or for in vitro diagnostic medical devices. This is neither the case in the 1978 Directive 7879, which will continue to apply until 26 May 2022, nor in the Regulation 2017/746 which will enter into force on 26 May 2022. Without wishing to debate all the consequences of such additional protection measures, I would like to begin by confirming that we are dealing with harmonised matters and that we, as a Member State of the European Union, are not competent. The in vitro diagnostic procedure has been published on the RIZIV website. On this page you can find which IVDs are eligible for reimbursement, as well as a description of the procedure with a detailed template for an application file. The guidelines are also given here. The determination of the admissibility of the file takes about 45 days. The evaluation of the dossier takes about 100 days. The applicant's response to the assessment report takes approximately 90 days. The proposal of the Clinical Biology Working Group comes after about 80 days. The further procedure in the TGR, the NCAZ, CBC and VC depends on the frequency and dates of meetings. The progress of the dossier is partly dependent on the available budget. The applicant shall be kept regularly informed of the progress of the dossier. This procedure is quite recent. It was approved by the Insurance Committee and published on the RIZIV website in 2019. In the meantime, only one application file of this kind has been received by the Medical Service of the RIZIV. That dossier has been positively evaluated and a new provision in the nomenclature will shortly be submitted to the Plenary Technical Medical Council. It is therefore too early to be able to provide average lead times for this new procedure. Since the procedure has only recently been launched and has only been used so far, an evaluation or review is not currently under consideration. In the past, between 2010 and 2015, the dossier for the lab test pro-BNP has been dealt with several times by the Technical Medical Council within the RIZIV. This was therefore before the introduction of the new procedure for the reimbursement of IVDs, which I mentioned. The clinical benefit of this test under specific conditions was already recognised by the TGR Clinical Biology Working Group. However, a new provision in the nomenclature could not be foreseen at that time for budgetary reasons. At the moment, therefore, there is no refund for this test. If a new refund application were to be submitted today, the Technical Medical Council could evaluate the dossier in accordance with the new IVD procedure. That would certainly make sense, given that additional scientific insights have been collected in recent years and that there is also an evolution in the cost of these tests. Such a refund application may be submitted by both the clinical biology committee and the manufacturer of the test. The TGR expects this application in the short or even very short term. It therefore appears that pro-GNP will become the second refund dossier to be carried out through the IVD procedure. Finally, in reply to your question on the envelope budget, I can inform you that IVDs are part of the field of clinical biology. Tests are not directly reimbursed, but are included in the fee for certain medical benefits. In addition to the costs for the equipment required, the fee shall include the costs for the staff required, the logistics, administration, quality assurance and intellectual instrument. The way of refunding is thus different from implants, invasive medical devices or medicines. Therefore, the IVDs will be repaid within the clinical biology envelope for which a total of around EUR 1.4 billion has been budgeted in 2021. New benefits in kind in which IVD has been used must therefore also be financed within that budget. If the reimbursement of such new diagnostic studies entails savings within clinical biology or in other domains, little problems can be expected in the budgetary aspect. If a new refund mainly involves additional expenditure, compensatory savings should be sought within the clinical biology envelope.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u50	Mr President, Minister, you gave a rather long explanation and a rather vague answer to a rather simple question. If I add up the procedure every day, i.e. 25 plus 100 plus 90 plus 85, it will have to wait almost a year before it would be repaid. However, this has been scientifically proven and a real handicap in daily practice for accessible healthcare for patients and for proper diagnosis. It is therefore regrettable that you cannot be more specific about a possible date for reimbursement in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u51	Mr President, Minister, you are not speaking on intellectual property, but you are referring to your colleague. That's a déjà vu for the current government. Apart from that, I am satisfied with your answer. The diagnostic test really has its place within the diagnostics, which you have also indicated. Heart failure must also be traced as closely as possible. You mentioned the budgets and any additional costs, but we can say that early detection of heart failure, which is a progressive disease, will bring health gains but also budgetary gains. From your answer, I would point out that when another application is submitted, there is a good chance that it will be evaluated positively. This is good news for our doctors and, of course, for patients who can be diagnosed and treated accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u52	Mr Minister, it is good news that you also like the reimbursement of that test. However, it is of course a pity that this has not been done before, as the clinical benefit was proven. We called for budgetary reasons for this, which, of course, did not come under your responsibility at the time. However, this is a story that will generate savings, especially in the longer term. I hope that this will not take up too much time because it is important for the patient to have access to early diagnosis. It will also be positive for our health budget. I'll keep following up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u53	Mr President, Minister, my question is a little more detailed than Mrs Van Camp's, but perhaps they complement each other nicely. Minister, I am talking in particular about plans I read about in an article of 11 March 2021. In it you announced plans to marginalize smoking in front of children. In particular, you mentioned a smoking ban in playgrounds and amusement parks, and a possible extension to public places in general. Coincidentally yesterday I already saw posters in Genk with a call to stop smoking in front of children. At the level of the regions and cities and municipalities, therefore, steps are already being taken. You won't be surprised that the Alliance for Smoke-Free Society welcomes all these plans. But they also warn that there must certainly be an accompanying government preparatory campaign. They also say that it is absolutely necessary to talk to the actors involved. I therefore have a number of specific questions about the timing of these specific plans. Mr Van Camp will also ask about the more general plans. What about the timing of smoking bans in playgrounds and amusement parks and in public places by extension? How exactly will you do that? Which actors have you already consulted or will you do so with? What is the timing of the other initiatives still taking place in the smoke-free society projects? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u54	Mr President, Mrs Creemers and Mrs Van Camp, you know that during this legislative period, I want to develop a long-term national strategy for reducing tobacco consumption among young people and the general population. The General Cell Drug Policy will draw up this plan. The next meeting of the General Cell Drugs Policy will take place this month. The purpose of the meeting is to establish common priorities for the different entities of this country in the field of legal and illegal drugs. It is only when the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health has validated these priorities that they can be further developed. I am sure that a specific working group will be able to start drawing up this plan after the summer. At this stage it is too early to estimate when the plan will be completed. So it is too early to talk about the concrete content of this plan, but given the federal powers in this area, there are several possibilities. A smoking ban in playgrounds and amusement parks, but possibly more generally in all public parks are some options. Since this plan will be drawn up in the General Cell on Drugs Policy, I do not want to anticipate the outcome of discussions between the experts. Discussions in the cell will clarify whether such measures are desirable and feasible and, if so, how they should be implemented in practice. The aim is to involve all competent public administrations at federal level but also the federated entities. I would urge that the NGOs active in this area should also be consulted. This choice is a matter for the working party itself. It goes without saying that tobacco producers themselves will not be involved, given Article 5.3 of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. There are other possible measures that could be part of this plan and fall within my federal competence. Let me give you some examples. To strengthen the rules on packaging and control of ingredients by extending the current measures, specifically for cigarettes and roll tobacco, to all tobacco products, as they present the same health risks. A reduction in the number of outlets. Reducing the visibility of tobacco packaging at points of sale, for example by prohibiting vending machines. Application of all the provisions of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control ratified by Belgium. Optimizing control. Strengthening monitoring. Those are possible slopes. Tobacco consumption is not, for the sake of clarity, part of the future food and health plan. It concerns a complex issue which is part of the general discussion within the Drugs Policy Cell. My teams are preparing the discussions closely and are also in contact with Dutch colleagues who already have a more concrete plan to reduce the number of points of sale. The Dutch experience will certainly be useful for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u55	Mr Minister, I note the starting point, after the summer, in my agenda and then I ask you another question. You are in favour of the NGOs being consulted. It is and remains the choice of the working party itself, but try to put it as high on the agenda as possible. After all, they know perfectly what the basis is already great and what still needs to be worked on. From a survey by the Foundation against Cancer and Ipsos they know that there is already a very large support base to start with places where children are. From there, further work can be done. Keep those NGOs close to you and the working group. It's just too early to go into that in more detail. We'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u56	Minister, I will do the same. I'll put the appointment in my schedule, too, so we can follow this up together. You did not reply directly to my question as to whether Parliament will be involved. Various initiatives also come from Parliament. In the past some measures have not been tested, so I do not think it would be unwise to do so with this plan. Then we can discuss it with you, but also really carry it out and put our shoulders under it. Hopefully the working group will also pay attention to this. Hopefully this working group will be able to meet effectively after the summer and come up with a plan soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u57	Mr President, Minister, last week was the week against homophobia, biphobia, transphobia. On this occasion, particular emphasis was placed on the well-being and health of LGBTQIA+ people. In Belgium, however, male homosexuals remain discriminated against in terms of their ability to give blood even if they do not have risky behaviours, even if they are in a stable relationship with others. Access to blood donation in Belgium to male homosexuals is conditioned by an abstinence of sexual relations for a period of 12 months, against a four-month exclusion for heterosexuals after their first sexual contact with a new partner. It is clear from the current legislation that homosexual men are placed on the same footing as swingers, sex workers, persons with multiple sexual partners and intravenous or intramuscular drug users considering that they present an increased and identical risk of contracting STD, which is of course totally false. On the other hand, it is true that the Supreme Council of Health found that the donation of blood was not one of the rights and freedoms of individuals and that the 12-month exclusion period could be justified. However, in its judgment 122/2019 of 26 September 2019, the Constitutional Court held that this provision applied a differentiation of treatment which did not conform to the principles of equality and non-discrimination. Although the Court maintained the effect of the provision, it requested the adoption of a new law that would allow the donation of plasma for men who have sexual contact with other men. The Higher Council of Health also stated in its opinion that a period of less than 12 months could very well be retained, but provided that an in-depth study took place. Knowing that the 2017 law provides for an assessment of the criteria for temporary exclusion of blood donation at least every two years and that on December 8th, you were responding to some of my colleagues that you were waiting for the latest public health FPS opinion on this subject, here are my questions: Will you introduce a bill that would ensure compliance with the Constitutional Court's ruling? What would he expect? Would it allow the exclusion of blood donation to be limited to real risk behaviours as for heterosexual people? Has the opinion of the FPS Public Health expected in December 2020 been issued? What are the conclusions in particular as regards the impact of the twelve-month abstinence period?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u58	Mr Minister, my colleague has perfectly summarized the framework of the question that arises today. The Red Cross continues to reiterate that we are currently facing a shortage of blood donations. The context of the covid crisis is certainly not foreign, since we must cancel certain blood donations in companies and schools. There was also some fear of blood donors in relation to the social distancing standards that were required and the measures in place. The Red Cross also refuses a number of donors returning from red to orange areas. Today, we need blood and, as Mrs Rohonyi mentioned, today, there are probably people, men who want to give their blood but cannot, or at least cannot, under the same conditions as heterosexual people. More than a year ago, I was asking your predecessor, Mrs De Block, about this situation. I was also asking him about the ongoing consultation. Minister, where are we today? Do you intend today to put an end to this discrimination that is terrible for homosexual men in blood donation? In the light of current scientific knowledge, is the possibility of amending legislation on blood donation finally being considered and approaching us?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u59	Mr Minister, since 2017, men who have sex with men can give blood, but with an exclusion period of one year after the last sexual contact. On 26 September 2019, the Constitutional Court ruled in a judgment that the exclusion of men having sex with men is not justified for plasma donation. The Court gave policy makers two years to adapt the law to that judgment. The Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre of Unia regrets that during that two-year period following the 2017 Law, no changes to the Royal Decree were made, despite the new scientific insights and the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Unia calls on the government to urgently evaluate the latest scientific and epidemiological data to review the exclusion criteria. Unia also expects the government to implement the Court's ruling to enable plasma donation. Within the LGBTQIA+ community, there is a great deal of incomprehension against this still existing discrimination. Will you comply with the Constitutional Court's ruling to allow plasma donation for men who have sex with men, without that exclusion criterion? What specific plans are on the table? When can we expect the royal decision you must make? Will there be a thorough deepening of the evaluation, as Unia asks?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u60	Mr President, is it right that we should stop after Mr Piedboeuf's question? I will answer this question and then that of Mr Piedboeuf. After that, I'd like to leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u61	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u62	I propose to answer Mr Piedboeuf before leaving, but here is the answer to the questions raised by Mrs Rohonyi, Mr Rigot and Mrs Merckx. In its judgment of 26 September 2019, the Constitutional Court rejected an application for annulment of a provision in a 2017 Health Act concerning a waiting period of 12 months after a man's last sexual contact with another man. Subject to a specific exception, this exception in respect of which the appeal was considered well founded concerns donations of fresh frozen plasma obtained by apheresis and secured by quarantine. In all cases, the judgment is clear and applicable not later than two years after its publication in the Belgian Moniteur. However, I have planned to clarify the legislation by providing for a specific provision that will be included in a draft bill containing various health provisions. This preliminary draft will be submitted to the Council of Ministers shortly. As described in the Act of August 11, 2017, the exclusion criteria for the donation of blood by candidates for donation, exposed to the risk of a transfusion-transmitted infection, due to the sexual behaviour of the candidate for donation or the conduct of the sexual partner of the candidate for donation, must be subject to annual consultation and may, according to the results of the evaluation, be reviewed every two years. The Royal Implementing Order of 25 October 2018 lays down the bodies involved in the evaluation of the criteria for temporary exclusion from the donation of blood and the related exclusion period related to the sexual behaviour of donors, as well as the information to be collected in order to carry out this evaluation. As you will recall, the last consultation took place on 8 December 2020 on the basis of an analysis of the 2019 data. The Directorate-General for Health Care, FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment, is responsible for carrying out an evaluation on the basis of information collected from the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products, Sciensano, blood transfusion establishments and the Higher Health Council. The report of this consultation is in the final validation phase and will soon be available on the Public Health FPS website. The latter assessment led to the conclusion that the trend towards easing the exclusion criteria was not on the agenda, since the Belgian figures did not yet provide a scientific justification for the impact of the 12-month deferral on specific risk categories related to sexual behaviour. The number of data was considered to be too limited to draw scientifically sound conclusions. However, I have recently asked the FPS Public Health and the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products for an assessment of studies and data on foreign countries regarding the consequences of sexual behaviour at risk, paying particular attention to countries that have a shorter time frame than Belgium. Like you, I'm waiting for the results of this study. Here's my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u63	Minister, thank you for your half-tone answer. I intend, on the one hand, to clarify the legislation in force and, on the other hand, to submit a draft law to the Council of Ministers in the near future. That's very positive. Nevertheless, I have still not understood the direction in which these clarifications will be made. In fact, you tell us that the evaluation of the criteria for the exclusion of blood donation has not yet been completed and that an evaluation of what is being done abroad is still under way. Therefore, I do not understand how the legislation will be clarified. I admit that I am a little lost and puzzled, especially since – as my colleague has reminded us – this evaluation work has been required for years, notably by UNIA in its 2019 and 2020 reports. We see that, in the meantime, other countries are acting. France, for example, has shortened the abstinence period to four months and the United Kingdom to three months. They are serious and also concerned about the quality of blood that is given and which, despite everything, have been able to change their respective legislation – unlike Belgium. There is therefore a great misunderstanding of this. So it is really more than time, Minister, in clarifying the law that you are going to bring, to move our blood donation policy towards a policy of prevention that is based on the donor's risky behaviour and not on his or her sex or sexual orientation purely and simply. In other words, we need a risk reduction policy, not exclusion and stigma, which we know today. Putting homosexuals and heterosexuals on the same footing by providing for a period of four months based on risky behaviour would be a much more balanced solution that would ensure the quality of blood and, at the same time, eliminate unnecessary stigmatization of homosexual men. That is precisely the meaning chosen by a bill that my group has just tabled. As my colleague has said, this would, in particular, help to address this serious blood shortage that we are unfortunately experiencing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u64	Minister, I am going to abound in the direction of my colleague. Indeed, my arms fall. I hear the lack of data that does not allow us today to decide and move forward on the end of real discrimination. However, this lack of data should not prevent us from exercising discernment today. There's a fact. There is discrimination that is there because at-risk groups or individuals are confused with at-risk behaviours. What needs to be avoided in the interests of everyone is the consequences of risky behaviour, and there is nothing to say today that there is more risk behaviour among homosexuals than among heterosexuals. So I really ask that we move forward. As you know, on 4 March 2020, my group tabled a resolution to that effect. I will come back with this resolution because I really think that we must now press the accelerator. We're ready to do it. I hear that DéFI has tabled a text and that the MR Group is doing so. Since we are now clearly ready to move forward, in any case at Parliament level, I insist that we restore equality, freedom to be, freedom to make choices in the name of respect and certainly also in the name of solidarity, since blood donation is more than ever a necessity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u65	Minister, I am replying in the same way as my colleagues. If I have understood correctly, discrimination continues because there is no data available. That's bad. We have many questions about this from that world, including homosexual men, who experience this discrimination very badly. It is not because one is homosexual that one has an increased risk of certain conditions that could endanger blood donation. The collection of this data must be pursued and this discrimination must be stopped. Our group will certainly support legislative proposals along these lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u66	(...) the funding of the hospital, including the day hospital, must be reviewed and a reform put in place. The work on analysing the current situation has been carried out and has revealed the different competences that must be activated both at the federal level (reform of funding, day hospitalisation and medical nomenclature) and at the level of the federated entities, competent for hospital infrastructure and supervision standards. This work is very much in line with the ongoing reforms and is also one of my priorities. Moreover, since the last reform of the State, the standards of supervision of care units have been the responsibility of the federated entities. However, consultations are held with the partners of the federated entities to rethink the organisation of the hospital supply within the framework of the local and regional hospital networks. Once the federated entities have aggregated the different networks, the intention is to jointly review the need for care, both in terms of volume and intensity. It is therefore not only certain supervisory standards that could be reassessed, but also certain architectural standards and part of the programming standards that define the number of hospital beds required to meet hospital care needs within the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic489x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answers. I note that you are attentive to this matter. I will also mobilize the federated entities because it is important that the standards of supervision correspond to the needs, especially in the light of the shortage of nurses. I see the work is moving forward.
