ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u1	Madam Minister, last month the Court of Auditors informed Parliament of the outcome of an investigation into the effectiveness of public policy in encouraging the building up of supplementary pensions. In 2019, supplementary pensions accounted for almost 75% of the active population. How will you also provide a second pillar for the remaining 25% of the active population? For this, reference can also be made to the coalition agreement. For my second question, I refer to the report and a press release from the Court of Auditors. I quote: 'The Court of Auditors finds, in particular, that current public policies on supplementary pensions lead to an unfair situation, that it does not achieve its objective of providing a very large number of beneficiaries a balanced supplement to their statutory pension'. I also refer to your policy statement on this subject. It is essential that we shape this second pillar in a fair, efficient, sustainable and transparent way. How will you strengthen the second pillar for the majority of workers and at the same time eliminate the excesses referred to by the Court of Auditors? Finally, I drew this question from the Court of Auditors' report. I also quote the same quote, as included in the press release. I also refer to your policy statement. It says: "A large number of sectors have now introduced a pension plan and some have also evolved towards tangible contribution levels. However, for many employees, contributions remain very modest and insufficient to build up a substantial supplementary pension. We also see that some of the workers are still falling completely out of the boat. We therefore invite the social partners to consider how each employee can be covered as soon as possible by a supplementary pension plan which includes a contribution of at least 3% of gross wage." Madam Secretary, in the context of that quote from your policy statement, I make a suggestion. I promised you that I would make suggestions on a regular basis to address the important issue of ageing. Would it not be a good idea to reserve part of the wage standard for the further development of the second pillar? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u2	Madam Minister, I also have a question concerning the second pillar of pensions. We have indeed agreed in the coalition agreement that it should be generalised. We stated that every employee must have a supplementary pension as soon as possible with a contribution of at least 3% of gross wages. We know that supplementary pensions are a substantial part of the pension structure, and that almost three quarters of the workers in our country now have that. But for many people such a supplement to the statutory pension is also important. We note that not everyone has this yet and that the structure is sometimes very minimal. That is why we must continue to democratisation of the supplementary pension so that every worker can build it up. I have tabled a resolution on supplementary pensions before the government agreement. In that we go even further with CD&V. We do not think that we should seek generalisation, but that we should evolve towards a mandatory minimum contribution to supplementary pensions, so that we can ensure that everyone builds up a supplementary pension in the long term. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. How will you ensure that every employee has a supplementary pension plan as soon as possible with a contribution of at least 3% of gross wages, as agreed in the government agreement? Have you discussed this with the social partners? What's the status? What further steps will you take? We read today in the newspaper that, following the opinion of the Court of Auditors, you want to redirect part of the resources of the second pillar to the first pillar. In the meantime, I have found that you are somewhat nuanced. In any case, it should not be the intention to make the second pillar less attractive. On the contrary, we must ensure an attractive system and it is important that a certain tax advantage is attached to it. We can support the removal of excesses or anomalies, but let us ensure both the increase in the minimum pension to EUR 1,500 net and the construction of a second pension pillar for all. That is really necessary given the invoice of a resting place. Can you therefore clarify what was published in the newspaper this morning about the Court of Auditors' report and the financing of the first and second pillars?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u3	Minister, in 2019, the supplementary pensions involved 3.8 million members, representing three-quarters of the workforce. Behind this broad coverage is an uneven distribution of accumulated reserves. There are very large differences between the contributions received and the amounts of pensions that are constituted. According to a report by the Court of Auditors, in 2019, 10% of employees close to retirement have acquired reserves of up to EUR 443 for their career, while 10% have reserves between EUR 200 000 and EUR 8 million. In 2017, 1 per cent of pensioners received 20 per cent of the total supplementary pensions paid, while 70 per cent of pensioners received 10 per cent of the supplementary pensions paid. Thus, those who receive a high wage have a high supplementary pension and those who have a low wage have a very small supplementary pension. The system feeds a circle of inequality that never ends. Madam Minister, you have recently mentioned that you are going to ask the social partners to think about how each employee can be covered by a supplementary pension scheme which includes a contribution of at least 3% of the gross wage. Have you ever received some thought in order to move things forward and seek to reduce inequalities in supplementary pensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors has rightly pointed the finger at the wound with regard to the second pillar of pensions. Supplementary pensions are very unevenly distributed today. There is one very large group that builds up no or very low pension rights. On the other hand, a very small group uses the second pillar as an instrument of fiscal optimisation and is able to build very high capitals that are taxed indefinitely at a soil rate. In addition, the system is supported fiscally and parafiscally, otherwise supplementary pensions would not exist. This state-supported system is very expensive. This has been confirmed by the Supreme Council of Finance, as Ms Lanjri has just mentioned, which says: "the loss of profits for the government resulting from a preferential tax and parafiscal system for second pillar payments can be estimated at two billion euros." So I'm not saying it. This mainly benefits people with higher-than-average income from activities and pensions. The Supreme Council of Finance therefore says exactly the same thing as the Court of Auditors in its analysis of the second pillar. There is therefore a need to adapt taxation and para-fiscality with a view to democratisation and a better redistributive effect for pensioners. Het Nieuwsblad ran a rumor this morning. I'm arresting him right now. The two billion euros to pay the lowest pension increase are in the government agreement, in the budget from 2021 to 2024. Mrs. Lanjri knows that too. It is new money that the government, the state is putting in to pay for the increase of the lowest pensions. It's an achievement until 2024. It is not the second pillar pensions, the supplementary pensions, that will pay the lowest pension increase. I would like to say it and repeat it. I never said that to the press. It's a free interpretation of journalists. The French-speaking press did not say the same thing at all; an article appeared yesterday. I want to make it clear here and thank Mrs Lanjri for allowing me to clarify that. I am pleased that you share the analysis that there are excesses in this respect and that they should therefore be addressed. We will work hard on this in the coming months, together with the social partners, in the National Pension Committee. In doing so, we must pay attention to the very high and small supplementary pensions. The Court of Auditors made a number of valuable proposals with regard to the high level of supplementary pensions. More specifically, the Court of Auditors proposes that no longer apply an exemption from social security contributions for pensions exceeding the maximum pension in the public sector. We also look at the same principles together with the Minister of Finance. At the lower end, we need to look at how we can reach the minimum contribution level of 3% for all employees. It is indeed written in the government agreement. You rightly refer to groups of employees who are still completely excluded from access to the second pillar. However, there is also a large group of persons who are members of a second pillar pension scheme but for whom the contribution level is too low to build a significant supplementary pension. You also have to think about them, 3% is really the minimum. If we do achieve a minimum contribution level of 3%, it will also reduce the pension gap between men and women because it is known that the supplementary pension could close the legal pension gap with women. Let me not take a concrete position today on how best to reach the 3% level! The supplementary pensions of employees are the result of the social dialogue between employees and employers. I would therefore like to await the analyses and proposals of the social partners in this dossier. I have already had several meetings with both employers and employee representatives on this issue. They're thinking about it. You will understand, they are working on it and I will work to ensure that this second pillar is much more supportive and much more equitable. This second pillar costs the state and benefits only a few. This is not acceptable and I call for a much fairer system. That is the point I asked the social partners to reflect on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u5	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Again, you are hiding behind the social dialogue that is yet to take place or to take place. You will undoubtedly be able to express your opinion in the context of social dialogue. As far as the second pillar is concerned, you should not lose sight of the fact that it is actually about people's savings. Those people themselves explained that for their supplementary pension. This is not insignificant, and it is, of course, different from the first pillar of pensions. That's where the repartition system counts. In the context of the negotiations or the discussions that will follow, you should take into account that you do not touch acquired rights. That's what the coalition agreement says. The N-VA will closely monitor that part of the coalition agreement as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u6	I am absolutely in favour of democratizing and generalising the second pillar of pensions, not the third pillar for which everyone saves individually, through the employer. Three quarters of people may already have a second pillar, but there is hardly anything in that pot for some people. They think they're saving and at the end of the ride they see that they get nothing or barely a few euros a month. That system needs to be more democratic. That is why I have also drawn up a resolution with very specific recommendations. You can also look at them when you work out your plans. You are speaking to the social partners. That's good. We also have the opinion of the Supreme Court of Finance, the opinions of the Court of Auditors, our resolution and others. In a few months' time, before a final decision is taken, we will have to discuss it again in committee, possibly with hearings, in order to effectively ensure that excesses and abuses are removed and that everyone can effectively build a second pension pillar and that we can also finance it. It may therefore be corrected, but it goes without saying that there can be no breach of contract on what people have saved for years. It must not suddenly be subject to a different kind of tax. You will have to involve not only the social partners, but also the minister concerned. This must be done in close consultation with the Minister of Finance and the Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answers that reassure me. Pensioners must be able to live in dignity, and it seems to me essential to focus on a more equitable and inclusive pension system in the reform, which does not favour tax optimisation. I have heard that this would also reduce inequality between men and women. I think you're not a minister who hides behind social consultation, you're always at the front to try and find solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u8	To avoid running out of time, I would like to refer to my question, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u9	Mrs Lanjri, I forgot to mention it at the beginning of the meeting. We have a technical problem in the oral questions computer system. So you should read your question today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u10	Madam Minister, in the case of replacement income for people with disabilities, the applicant's family situation remains an important element in the calculation of the benefit. People with disabilities living together receive a lower income replacement allowance than those living alone. This is also the case with other benefits because, of course, economic economies of scale of cohabitation are taken into account. Surely it cannot be the intention that people with disabilities should be discouraged from living together, because this hardly leaves anything left of their compensation? Today, a single person with disabilities receives an integration meeting of 950 euros per month. When he moved in with his partner, his allowance fell by 650 euros, which means he had to make a monthly living with only 300 euros. That's less than half the living wage a cohabitant receives. It receives 639.27 euros. Something's wrong. This is not an isolated case either. A recent report by Unia in November 2020 shows that many people with disabilities cannot live together with their partner or family member because of fear of a drastic reduction in their benefit. It is already more difficult for people with disabilities to participate fully in society. Now they are also denied the support of a resident partner. I would also refer to a passage from the coalition agreement: "It will be examined whether existing social and tax regulations are still adapted to modern forms of society and whether care formulas are adapted to everyone's choices." This also applies to the impact of people living together. This also has an impact on the income replacement allowance for people with disabilities. Will you indeed ensure that the difference in the income replacement allowance of a single person and a cohabitant is reduced, which no longer discourages cohabitation? You are also competent for Social Integration. So apparently there are huge differences between someone receiving a living wage and someone receiving an income replacement allowance as a person with disabilities. Why is that? That's not right, is it? There's a real problem there. What else will you do? Will you ensure that the difference is indeed reduced? I hope so. If you don't want to do that, can you motivate it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to hear your views on this and I fully agree with them. As you know, the discussion on the individualisation of social rights is not limited to the benefit for people with disabilities. Any initiative by the Minister for Finance or Social Affairs can count on my support, but you can understand that I cannot take any steps within a specific social area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u12	Madam Minister, of course I think it is logical that you should cooperate with your colleagues, but in this case it is certainly about your competence. You are competent for people with disabilities and for their benefits. I would remind you of an inconsistency, namely the great difference between people with a living wage and those with a disability who receive income replacement. I do not have any problem with the fact that people living together are reduced a bit on their benefits, but with people with disabilities it is now so drastic that it cannot be justified. I therefore ask you, as the competent minister, what you intend to do about it. If you ultimately have to go back to other ministers for your solution, I fully understand that, but I assume that you will take the initiative in this matter. That's why I don't understand your answer. Why would you leave it to others? After all, you are competent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u13	I could make proposals to the government, but when it doesn't appear in the government agreement, even for a euro, it's very difficult to negotiate with the partners. I will draw up a disabled plan, a poverty plan and I hope to have the support of your party's ministers for my proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u14	It's in the coalition agreement. That's okay. We have fought for that, too. We have made sure that this passage is in the coalition agreement. We also think that we should really work them out. You will, of course, have our support. More than that, you can see that I am already impatient today to realize it as soon as possible. Madam Secretary, go for it. Work something out. Make sure you get the correction. Because the example I gave was taken out of life. It can't be. We must no longer tolerate this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u15	Madam President, Minister, since 1 January 2021 'the price of love' has been abolished. People with disabilities who marry or live together therefore no longer lose a part of their integration meeting. Of course, we are very happy about that. We've argued for it for a long time, too. In reply to my questions, you also confirmed that persons who received a reduced integration meeting before 1 January 2021 should not submit a new dossier. You also stated that your administration would automatically modify the files of anyone who was entitled to them. Your administration would therefore examine who was entitled to it, if it turned out that a lower amount would be paid because the partner's income was still included, although this is no longer allowed since 1 January 2021. "Only those who do not receive a benefit today should make a new application," you replied to a previous question. In the meantime, however, I received again several questions and e-mails from citizens who have applied for integration in the past, but whose application was rejected because their partner's income was included. Madam Minister, are the files of people whose applications have been rejected in the past automatically being re-evaluated or should they re-apply? I hope it will be automatic, as these people have already submitted a complete dossier. If this cannot be done automatically, would it be sufficient that these people can make a very simple application or let the services know that they want a review without having to re-assemble the complete file? I hope you will be able to give me clear information on this, because it seems that it is still unclear on the ground or that it is still not being done automatically. People are still asking me questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u16	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns the same issue, namely the abolition of the so-called 'price of love' in the integration process, which is a good thing. At first you noted that 'the price of labor' of integration would be reduced. In November 2020, that provision was also included in the opinion of the National High Council for Persons with Disability. It stated that the price of love was completely abolished and that the exemption from income from labour, i.e. the price of labour, would be increased from EUR 40,800 to EUR 60,949. There would also be an adjustment of the replacement income ceiling for the calculation of integration. The Royal Decree was not published in good time. When I drew up my question, there was no published royal decree. Maybe it's there by now, although I'm not really sure about that. However, the website of DG Persons with Disabilities has already announced that, once the Royal Decree has been published, the adapted integration meeting, as Mrs Lanjri pointed out, will be granted retroactively. Can you explain what the problem was with the royal decree and in which the final royal decree differs from the draft Royal Decree submitted to the National Supreme Court for Persons with Disability? Finally, what else do you intend to do with the price of labour?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u17	Minister, my question is about abolishing the price of love. This is a very good step forward, it must be stressed, because people with disabilities will no longer see their incomes affected by their choice of life. This is an important signal for the fight against all forms of discrimination. On the website of the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities, it is indicated that the adjustment will be made automatically. For all those who already benefit from an integration allowance, there is therefore no specific approach to be taken. However, for all those who had been denied the right to the integration allowance because of the household's too high income, because of the spouse's income, a new application to the HPD had to be re-filed. Minister, in order to avoid significant recourse, what measures are you planning to put in place to ensure that all those who are now entitled to this integration allowance are able to benefit from it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u18	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, Mrs Van Peel and Mrs Thémont, thank you for your questions, which give me the opportunity to give you the latest state of affairs. First let me reassure you about 'the price of love'. The royal decree is now signed and will soon be published in the Belgian Official Journal. I would like to stress that the delay does not affect this important measure for people with disabilities. The price of love no longer exists. It was abolished with retroactive effect until 1 January 2021. You know that this measure only achieves its objective if it is well known. That is why I asked DG Handicap to communicate more quickly and clearly on the measures announced by the government. I'll elaborate on "the price of labor" a little longer. As for the price of labor, it's a little more complicated. You have in front of you a minister a little overtaken because you need to know that the case is now blocked by some of the majority's partners. The reform of the labour price was therefore dissociated, by myself, from the price of love after the remarks made by the Higher Council of Persons with Disabilities in its opinion of 5 November 2020 which you mentioned. These remarks were justified and, on this basis, I wanted to rework the terms of the labour price before presenting it to the government. Be aware that if I had received stronger support from all partners around the government table to move quickly and together towards this labour price reform, work, communication and publication would already be being finalized. But it must be noted that some people now find it preferable to support only citizens with the most comfortable incomes instead of paying more attention also to the poor in our society. As a result, I find myself having to convince my partners that more immunization of working income will only be fair and relevant if it is coupled with more immunization of replacement income. That is the proposal I am making. Of course, it is necessary to encourage the placement in employment, to which I am a party, and the work of people with disabilities, but it must not be forgotten that many beneficiaries of this allowance will never find the way to work again or again. And as you know and as I like to repeat, our society and the labour market today are far from inclusive, whether it is the market for public services or the private sector. We are in the penultimate European position with regard to the inclusion of people with disabilities in the labour market. In this case, I want a balance within the framework of the labour price between a significant increase in labour income that would be totally immunized from the allowance and a less significant increase but requested by the Higher Council for Persons with Disabilities of replacement income. Today, it blocks but I will not give in to a political family around the government table. So I will come back soon to you because I do want to find that balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u19	Madam Minister, as far as we are concerned, it is indeed important that DG Handicap communicates very well and correctly. Let us now hope that it can all be done automatically. With regard to the recalculations, you did not reply specifically, but is it still necessary for people who have submitted a file in the past and who were refused because their partner made too much money to file again? Can you give me an answer to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u20	Ms. Lanjri, in the case of files that have been refused, it is not known whether the situation of the couple has changed. They must therefore indeed reintroduce it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u21	Madam Minister, if people submitted a dossier a year ago, for example, which was refused because the partner had too high income, and if nothing else has changed, then I hope that it will be enough for them to send a message to the services without having to put together a whole file again, because in the long run people are going to drop out. That is the essence of my question. If it is necessary to submit a new dossier, I would ask you to ensure that this can be done with a minimum of administration. I hope you still want to give that signal to DG HAN. I therefore call for a re-submission to be simplified without the need for all documents to be re-submitted, as they have already been submitted. When something changes, of course it makes sense to bring forward new pieces. With regard to 'the price of labour', you have the support of our group. It is impossible for people to explain that, because they are going to work, they are largely losing their integration meeting, whereas this integration meeting is intended to facilitate participation in society, to participate in a wide range of areas. Whoever is going to work must not lose that integration. I also follow your reasoning that not everyone can work and that we must ensure that people do not become victims of it. So you have our support. I hope we can convince the other groups as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u22	When I hear it like that, the atmosphere in the government is really fantastic. This is yet another dossier on which there is actually no agreement, even if there was supposed to be one. Madam Secretary, I think it is right that you do not put it so sharply. However, I am not surprised by all this, because that is what one gets when a coalition agreement hangs together with hooks and eyes and is full of platitudes. This is an example of this, unfortunately on the hood of a very vulnerable group. I fully support your view on the matter. So that is a problem, which undoubtedly also explains why the KB is still not there. I thought it would have been published by now, but apparently that is still not the case. The confusing communication about this is not only a problem for the Disability DG, but has first been communicated according to the government agreement, but now it appears to be not true. In the meantime, a large group of people don't know what they're up to. I hope that lessons will be learned from this and that we will communicate more proactively and more clearly, and that it will not be possible to do so in this government afterwards. However, that surprises me less and less.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u23	Minister, you answered both of my questions. With regard to non-recourse, you have contacted DG Handicap; communication has improved, is faster and more effective. It is crucial to put in place this communication strategy in order to reach those who would not benefit from this integration allowance because they are not aware of it. Second, persons whose family situation has changed may re-enter a file. Thank you for that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Hugon's 55013549C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u25	Madam Secretary, a few weeks ago Hannelore Bedert testified to me that you do not know her, but she is a Flemish musician and writer who lost her husband two years ago at a young age and stayed behind with two children on Radio 1 about the agony after the loss of her partner. She testified not only about the terrible pain after the loss, but also about the red tape that all widowers and widows have to struggle through shortly after the death of their partner. For example, the survivor's pension was reformed a few years ago, with the right to such a pension being drastically reduced over time and transformed into a transitional allowance. However, this benefit is only temporary: a year for those who do not have children and two years for those who do have children. In addition to Hannelore Bedert, we also hear many other women and men on time, and there was media attention that denounced the limitation in the time of the transitional allowance, because it did not take sufficient account of the profound psychological, social and economic consequences of a death. Do you agree that this transitional allowance is actually too short? Moreover, evidence shows that the gross amount of the transitional allowance at the end of the year is often subject to a high level of tax reimbursement. In fact, they become single, leading to a higher tax base. Is there a possibility of making a net amount of the gross amount? That could be a solution. I have seen on your Facebook page that in mid-February you had a constructive conversation with the non-profit association Odos, which unites parents who start again after they have experienced such a loss, just like Hannelore Bedert. What follow-up will you take to that consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u26	Madam President, Minister, this subject affects ten thousand children every year in our country. These children lose their dad, their mom, and even both parents. About seven thousand families throughout the country are affected by this dramatic situation. This is obviously a huge upheaval. There are no words to describe these deed. It's a whole process to go through. In addition, there are financial difficulties and all these administrative procedures, which are far from simple. Mechanisms have been put in place to provide financial assistance to bereaved families, such as this transitional allowance or survivor's pension. I rely on the study of the League of Families on this subject. It reveals many weaknesses in this mechanism. These include, for example, the following. On the death of one of the two spouses, the entire financial burden of the family is suddenly based on the surviving spouse. This is why this transitional allowance has been introduced, but it is only available when the couple is married. Why not open this allowance to legal cohabitants? There seems to be an injustice there, but it is probably due to the evolution of society. Today, there are a lot of cohabiting couples and fewer and fewer married couples. It would therefore be logical to open this transitional allowance. Another problem is that of all these people who do not know this possibility of benefit. Perhaps we should consider automating the entitlement to this allowance. Is that possible? Is the automation system so heavy that it cannot be put in place? In which case, this possibility should be made more widely known. Finally, the allowance is also paid at one time. Many families would like this payment to be made on a monthly basis to better manage all financial burdens in an extremely difficult environment. Could this be considered? Finally, we realize that in Belgium there is finally little support and support. Ms Willaert said that this problem existed in Flanders. On the francophone side, it is clear that it is difficult to obtain support in these situations. In France, on the other hand, through the Caisse nationale des allowancees familiales, a system allows the surviving spouse to have one contact person to help and guide him in the administrative formalities. It seems first of all more human, and also simpler. I would therefore like to know, Madam Minister, whether this would be transferable to us. In short, what measures are envisaged to help bereaved families, since nothing appears today in the government agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u27	Before giving the floor to the minister, I would like to thank the interpreters. Due to computer problems, there was no microphone, which complicated their work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not indifferent to the situation of the young widow parents. Since I've been in office, I've had meetings with the organizations that stand up for the rights of young widows and widowers. They are very concerned about the future, but above all about the future of their children. I will answer the questions that have been asked, in so far as matters fall within my competence. The extension of pension rights for legal cohabitants has been on the table for a very long time. As part of the structural pension reform that I have to submit to the government in the coming months, it is logical and necessary to adapt the pension system to societal changes. Society has evolved considerably, particularly in terms of the composition of families: legal cohabitants, de facto cohabitants, newly recomposed families, single-parent families, and co-parentality. There are more and more of them in our society and the system of protection, especially for young widows, must take into account this societal reality. So I'll put it on the table. The automation of social rights is certainly a point of attention for me too, through all the general policy notes. If you are entitled to a certain benefit, you must at least know that you are entitled to it. You took it up. To the extent possible, this should be granted automatically. In addition, at the time of mourning, administrative procedures should be minimized for survivors. I have already submitted all these requests to my administration following the meetings I had with these widows – because they are the ones who are most affected by the transitional allowances – and those NSOs who are there to defend their rights. Mrs Reuter, the transitional allowance has always been a monthly payment and not an annual one. Its duration depends on whether there are dependent children or not. But to answer Mrs Willaert, it is true that there are not enough deductions. It's gross and not clean. Here, too, I asked my administration to work. Indeed, when one is in a situation where there is a lack of family income and one is alone in the face of all expenses, as soon as one touches something, one spends it. If we don't touch him, we don't spend it. It is true that there is insecurity for these new widows or widowers. The support and accompaniment schemes do not fall within my competence, as you have said, but I hear the demands. In any case, a discussion with the different levels of power seems essential to me in order to find the appropriate answer that the citizen of public authority deserves. Perhaps there should be a one-stop shop; this could be interesting. I will therefore make the necessary contacts with regional and federal ministers. Minister Frank Vandenbroucke is competent for certain things and Minister Pierre-Yves Dermagne is competent for other things, including bereavement leave. I asked the various ministers these questions so that we could have a comprehensive policy towards these women or men who are experiencing drama.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u29	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. These are people who feel too often abandoned, and I am pleased that you said in your reply that you were in direct contact with these organisations. You have also already passed on certain items to your administration, so that the administration can look at them, for example in order to avoid red tape, as those involved can spare as toothache. Also, let us look at the whole issue of net versus gross, so that from the moment one works, one does not suffer a loss. I am very glad that you can give me that message, and I will pass it on to you myself. Because I feel terrible that these people need to be heard. They're pulling the alarm bell. Also the slope of a unique point of contact, one point of contact, is extremely important to take care of those people at such a difficult time in their lives. I note that you want to start discussions on this with the Länder and with your colleagues in the federal government. Let this be the beginning of more. I would like to thank you very much for the initiatives you have already taken. Together with the many people affected by such a situation, I look forward to the follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u30	Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for all the empathy you show. This problem concerns people who feel very alone in these extremely cumbersome approaches and procedures, precisely at a time when there is no willingness to engage in such battles aimed at obtaining assistance or allocation. For this reason, administrative simplification and automation are necessary. You tell us that you have already expressed the request to the administration. Thank you. This is indeed a first step. I come back to the idea of a single contact. We are talking about humans and feelings that are difficult to overcome. Therefore, being able to benefit from the help of a person who can guide you is truly fundamental. You tell me that the transitional allowance is paid monthly. My information claims the opposite. Therefore, I will check, even if I obviously trust you. In any case, I thank you for your answers and for your enthusiasm in improving these procedures. We look forward to the reform of the global system. I hope that these themes will be part of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u31	I would like to take this opportunity to state that an email will be sent and that hearings will more than likely be held next week about the bereavement leave and its accompaniment. Indeed, I receive more and more confirmations from people we wanted to hear. So, by the end of the day, that should be possible. Minister, of course, you are cordially invited, as are your collaborators. I'll send you an email containing all the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u32	Thank you, Madam President. In this way, we can coordinate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u33	The National Council for Persons with Disabilities is deeply concerned about the long waiting periods for files at DG HAN. At the beginning of this year the waiting times were long. However, it is feared that the new, otherwise positive measures, which became applicable in January 2021, will make them even longer. These include the reduction of the minimum age from 21 to 18 years for an income replacement allowance, the integration meeting, the abolition of the price of love and the reform of the price of work that is to come. As a result, a lot of files, up to 60,000 you said, need to be revised. Those concerned often wait not only for their compensation, but for their recognition at all, so that they can also get their derived rights, for example the social tariff on gas and electricity. It is of the utmost importance that they see their file dealt with as soon as possible. Madam Secretary, how far behind is it now? Do you expect it to increase, like the National Council? How many percent of the applications are answered in good time and how many are not? Can you compare the situation today with that of a year ago? What is the average time limit from the submission of the file to its completion? Can you give an overview by type of benefit or question? You yourself also indicated that an internal plan has been drawn up to temporarily increase the capacity for processing the files. Could you give me some more information about that? What term are we talking about? Will additional staff be recruited, or do you not think that will be necessary? In the meantime, what is the status of the service's telephone accessibility? How many calls are coming in? How many of these are being treated immediately? That was a problem in the past and a very improvement plan had been drawn up. In the meantime, steps have certainly been taken forward, but with the new files and the many new requests, I would also like to check the telephone accessibility of DG HAN. In the past I also did the tests and experienced that it was difficult to get into the services. Are you also considering structural measures to reduce the waiting time at the service? If so, what measures would be involved? If you don't think that's necessary, why not? Do you think the National Supreme Court of Persons with a Disability is wrongly concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u34	Questions about figures, statistics and other data should be put in writing; I will send you the figures by e-mail. We have already discussed the delay in DG Persons with Disabilities on a number of occasions. We can discuss the situation here every month, but you know we're working on it. The problems have been around for a long time and they cannot be solved in one-two-three. The waiting times at the DG are reasonable today, but it must be faster. Clearly, the situation still needs to improve. I put high demands on my administration in this respect, certainly because the new rules increase the workload. Therefore, additional measures had to be taken in 2021. The work was organised to give priority to the main tasks. So there were improvements soon to be seen. Better organisation also requires better working tools. Administrations need to modernise. That is why I am counting on the new computer system TRIA. We are also thinking together with DG HAN about a new action plan. So I will not say here that I will solve in a few months what others have not been able to solve for years. I do, however, have the ambition to improve the service by all the means available to me. I've been working on that with my administration ever since I became a minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u35	Madam Minister, I note your view that waiting times should be shorter, which is positive, and thank you for sending me the figures by e-mail. However, I have not yet heard what specific measures of the improvement plan you intend to take. Is it possible to deliver it to me either in writing or at a later date?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u36	We are now working with the Director of Social Security, Peter Samyn, on a plan to help DG Han.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u37	That's good. I will return to this in due course. I will give you time to work that out and then we will come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u38	Minister, the term of office of most members of the Academic Board of Pensions expired on November 9, 2020. According to my information, it would still not have been renewed. For the purpose of this important pension reform as you envisage it, the Council can prove to be an extremely valuable aid. Minister, why not have the Academic Board of Pensions renewed yet? Do you intend to do so in the near future? If yes, do you have a date to contact us?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u39	Minister, the Academic Board of Pensions has not been renewed. What about it? Can we have additional information?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u40	Dear colleagues, the expertise of academics is important to us and must be included in the discussion on pension reform. They can provide an objective and dynamic input that certainly brings added value. Nevertheless, we want to avoid a parallel process between the reforms under discussion by the social partners and the pension management committee and those developed by the academic world, as happened under the former legislature. It makes no sense that people work in parallel on different things. For this reason, the option of keeping the Academic Council separate or working on a model similar to that of the Central Economic Council, where the academic world is directly associated with the social partners, has not yet been decided by the government. You will have understood that my preference goes to a place where we insert the academic with the social partners and not where we work in parallel. The issue will therefore be submitted to the government in the near future, together with the methodology on pension reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u41	Minister, it is important to shed some light on this issue because we had not heard at all what you have just told us, namely that you do not want to renew as the Academic Council and that the government has still not decided. That said, we are almost in March and you are announcing a major reform in September. It may therefore be necessary to decide, because it is indeed necessary to move forward. There's not a lot of time left. Whatever the model used, the opinion of the Academic Council, whatever its form, is necessary. It's really a support you'll definitely need. I therefore think that it is really important to move forward. So, through you, let's put pressure on the government to finally find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u42	Minister, I agree with what has been said. Obviously, a solution will have to be found. It is true that we have sometimes found ourselves in difficulty when we asked the Academic Board of Pensions for advice because, precisely, it tells us that we no longer know how to respond. Could you give us a small signal so that we can know who we can turn to when we ask for opinions in this committee? I think that in the coming weeks there will be many questions and discussions about reform. I imagine all this will be in order. Let's be optimistic!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u43	Minister, during the week of February 8, temperatures fell to -10°C or -15°C. It was in this context that thousands of people had to continue to spend the night outside, without having been able to find a refuge to protect themselves from this cold ice. On that occasion, Brussels Studies Institute had reported a sharp increase in the number of homeless people in recent years. In 2018 alone, there were nearly 4,200 homeless people in Brussels, a number that has increased by almost 328% in ten years. In the face of the resurgence of homelessness in Europe, on 24 November the European Parliament adopted a resolution aimed at reducing the rate of homelessness in the European Union. While the Regions are primarily competent in this area, some of the recommendations contained in this motion for a resolution are at federal level, including the objective of ensuring equitable access to public services such as health care, education and social services. Following my inquiry with Minister Vandenbroucke on 26 January, it must be noted that the homeless are left behind in the management of the health crisis. However, their great vulnerability justifies the need to pay special attention to them, which leads me to ask you a few questions. Minister, what follow-up does the federal government intend to give to the implementation of the recommendations set out in this resolution? Are you committed to following these recommendations in consultation with the Regions and associations? If so, which and in what order of priority? What measures are you planning to take to promote access to the labour market for homeless people? Do you intend to develop a specific strategy to achieve this objective in consultation with the Minister of Employment? Do you think that the homeless are sufficiently integrated into our health crisis management with regard to health measures and the vaccination strategy? If not, how could they be more so? Are you considering further action in this regard? Finally, Parliament's resolution provides inter alia for intergovernmental cooperation to combat homelessness. Does your government intend to take part? What initiatives have been taken to establish such cooperation between different governments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u44	Dear colleague, the extreme temperature of this month of February reminds us of the fate of homeless people. During these cold times, we must be particularly vigilant. It is not just homeless people; poorly housed people are also affected. Each one counts. Nevertheless, I do not make a policy at the thermometer. The fate of homeless people is a priority of every moment. Aware of the increased needs in this period of crisis (not only of the cold weather but also of the health crisis), I have allocated EUR 500 000 as part of the task force "vulnerable groups" to strengthen the psycho-medical and social reception and accompaniment arrangements already existing and financed by the Federal Government, implemented in the five major cities of the country (Brussels, Antwerp, Ghent, Charleroi and Liège). In addition to this strengthening, I also extended these arrangements from 31 March to the end of June. Just before the carnival, I got a new budget of 700,000 euros to extend the centres and the psycho-medical-social support of the big cities I just listed. In addition, within the task force "vulnerable groups" that I chair, the office of my colleague in charge of health and the Office of the Commissioner Corona have confirmed that homeless people and other vulnerable audiences will be included in the national vaccination strategy. So I'm not letting you say that homeless people are left behind in this government. The federated entities are responsible for the implementation on the ground of the different phases of vaccination; this will not have escaped you since you are part of the Brussels government. The European Parliament's resolution on homelessness, the inclusion of this issue in the social agenda of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the EU and the European Commissioner for Social Affairs' support for the European platform for consultation on homelessness have not come to my attention. I agree and intend to discuss these issues very quickly with my European interlocutors – which I have already done this Monday morning since we have had an informal social EPSCO on the issue of poverty and the most vulnerable groups. As you point out, the problems of homelessness are alarming. I would point out that the federal government only complements, far from subsidiarity, regional homelessness policy. The policy of homelessness is a policy that, in our state, is regional, not federal. The federal government is complementary. In addition to day-to-day emergency accommodation solutions, it is essential to put in place structural proposals and offer people global trajectories of exit through innovative approaches such as Housing First. My teams in the field can count on my full support, particularly in the context of the next Federal Plan to Combat Poverty under preparation. It will take into account the best implementation of the recommendations on the European Pillar of Social Rights and a constructive dialogue with the authorities concerned in the federated entities. You also saw in the government agreement that Housing First will be strengthened through the federal government. As far as employment is concerned, I strongly believe in emancipation through work where possible, but we must take things in the right order and not make simplistic shortcuts. After a period of life on the street, these people need, above all, to find stable housing in order to be able to rebuild themselves, rethink themselves, rethink their lives and their aspirations and then to register themselves in a socio-professional project and also to rebuild their health. Their employability begins first with the recovery of fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answers. If I chose to ask you about it, it was not because I realized that there were homeless people on the streets who were facing the cold. I've been following this case for months. I've even been in the field. It is important to act upstream and downstream of homelessness by including, as you rightly pointed out, poorly housed people. To this end, it is necessary to prevent great insecurity and to help these people to regain their rightful place in society, first at the level of housing and then at the level of employment. As far as the division of powers is concerned, the federal government does support the federated entities, but it has its role to play, as recalled in the cooperation agreement concluded in 2014 between the Communities, the Regions and the federal government to combat homelessness. For the rest, I really welcome the measures that you have announced at the level of the task force "vulnerable groups" with attention to the big cities. This is very important because today there is a movement of the homeless and also of the undocumented to the big cities, since it is in these big cities that the greatest number of aids, associations and accommodation centres are finally concentrated. As far as health is concerned, I mean the homeless are part of the vaccination strategy. Happy again! The question now remains when they will be able to be vaccinated and whether they are considered a vulnerable group or not. It is really urgent to be able to vaccinate them because their living conditions are not the same as those of other people who may, in particular, be confined to their homes. In terms of mental health, what about the homeless? Do they have access to psychiatric units? This is probably a question that I will be able to address to the Minister of Health. I conclude, Madam Minister, by calling on you to question your colleague Mahdi because a large number of homeless people are undocumented people. It is more than time to think about how best to protect them with regard to the criteria for regularisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u46	Madam President, Minister, unfortunately many pensioners live in poverty. Moreover, it appears that many of them still do not find their way to aid organisations or the OCMW. Many pensions are simply too low and the minimum pension is not enough to guarantee an unwise old age. A very recent published study by Pascal De Decker and Emma Volckaert shows that poverty in this group is much greater and more structural than government studies indicate. This study addresses distressing situations, e.g. of pensioners who have to go back to work in order to reach the end of the month financially. It is sad that we have to see this, and the corona crisis is, unfortunately, divising this poverty even further. After paying rent and some fixed costs, such as electricity and heating, there is hardly anything left to live on. In addition, most people also need help, as a result of the limitations of their age. Many initiatives and measures already exist, but they are often unknown to this vulnerable group. Madam Minister, you have said a number of times that you are preparing a global poverty plan. That is why I would like to hear from you how far you are going with the plan. What are the specific measures you will take for pensioners living in poverty?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to ask which study you are referring to, because I do not know them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u48	It is a study by Ghent University, if I am not mistaken, of two professors, Pascal De Decker and Emma Volckaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u49	Some of the pensioners live in poverty. Unfortunately, that is a fact. The corona crisis has not spared them, not only in terms of health but also in their social lives, for example loneliness and the digital divide. That's very hard for our elders. I believe that they deserve a better place in our society and that we should listen more to what they want. That's why my cabinet is actively involved in the Federal Advisory Council for the Elderly. I regularly consult the Council on issues such as pensions, the impact of covid, etc. That always gives us interesting ideas. As far as the specific measures are concerned, as you know, I have already introduced a historic increase in minimum pensions and the IGA. In this respect, I would also like to address the inequality between men and women. Of course, the OMCWs are also involved in this. I supported them to develop measures for those who are even more difficult to reach during the covid period. Rights that are not being included and the digital divide are also issues that I want to address. The Poverty Plan will certainly take into account the problems and needs of older people. I am working with my administration on a framework note that will be presented in the coming months. The whole government will be involved in this plan. You will hear more about it as soon as this note has been submitted to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u50	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Unfortunately, poverty affects one in five elderly people. For example, they live in a house of less quality and therefore have an extra chance of getting sick. This vulnerable group finds it difficult, even with the measures or initiatives taken, to find the way to aid. Nor should we forget that poverty in the elderly is often not visible. Out of pride they simply do not knock on the OCMW. It is important, I hear, that you will do something about it, and that it is certainly being done proactively, partly in cooperation with the Länder, to identify possible cases of poverty in this risk group. Information campaigns must also be continued. I am thinking, for example, of a pamphlet in the waiting room of the general practitioner, or of an advertisement in the member book of the sickness fund so that this risk group is also sufficiently informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u51	Since Mrs Reynaert was not present, her question No 55014086C was not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u52	Madam President, Minister, 42 million meals are the number of meals that food banks distributed in Belgium in 2020, an increase of 24% over 2019. In Brussels, the voluntary sector saw an increase in the number of people seeking assistance by more than 16.5%. As we all know, the pandemic and the measures taken to combat the spread of the virus have had negative effects on the poorest. But these events also brought a new audience to the doors of food banks. Many young people bear witness to a just and unsustainable distress. Madam Minister, I have asked you about the implementation of the recommendations of the European Parliament's resolution on homelessness. In this vein, the problem of access to adequate food is intrinsically linked to precariousness. In fact, no later than yesterday, I saw you speaking at the RTBF's television news about the measures implemented to combat the increase in demand for food aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u53	Mrs Rohonyi, could you take your microphone away a little bit and talk a little less quickly to facilitate the interpreters' work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u54	Of course, Madam President. I'm continuing, Madam Minister. On that occasion, you mentioned that the annual budget for 2021-2022 would be in the order of 27 million euros, this budget being largely financed by the European Union. Of course, these funds are essential to ensure food for people in need. However, in view of the increased need for food banks, the community is concerned about the adequacy of these funds. The question therefore arises as to whether, in the future, we will be able to receive sufficient funds to help the poorest. Minister, have you contacted the community to report this significant increase in the number of people using food banks? If so, can you identify more precisely the population receiving such assistance? Do you think the budget for food banks and CPAS will be sufficient? If so, can you explain how this budget will ultimately be allocated? What measures does your administration intend to take to reduce the number of people to receive food aid? Finally, in the 2019 annual report of the European Fund for Aid to the Poorest (EFAD), a charter on food aid in partnership with large-scale distribution was to be signed, but it would have been delayed due to the pandemic. Where is she today? Have you been able to speed up its implementation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u55	Madam President, Mrs Rohonyi, the federal government and the governments of the federated entities agreed, in a government-to-government negotiation, on the percentage of the REACT+ envelope: at least 10% of the REACT+ fund. The REACT+ fund is a social emergency fund that Europe released following the crisis of the coronavirus for 2021 and 2022. The idea is that at least 10% of this fund goes to food aid. It is Europe that demands this. This goes through funds that go to the Regions. As you said, since 2014, there has been an increase in demand, which has intensified during the health crisis. I have therefore asked the federated entities, following this significant increase, to go beyond 10%. Flanders has taken the option of limiting itself to 10% – this is the initial agreement – while the Walloon Region and the Brussels Region have increased their participation to 15% of the REACT+ envelope for 2021-2022 – and I thank them for that. This amounts to EUR 40 million for two years, i.e. EUR 20 million per year. In view of the increasing needs on the ground, this is not enough. I recall that the federal government has invested $14 million in 2020 (twice $7 million). In total, 54 million will be guaranteed for 2021 and 2022, since the federal government will maintain the 7 million in 2021 and the 7 million in 2022. This means that the doubling of the envelope, which was totally exceptional, for 2020, will be guaranteed in 2021 and 2022. With this, we maintain the means of the crisis, hoping indeed to get out of the crisis. These means will be used for food aid, but I have demanded that they also be used for hygiene products. It is easier to buy 1 kg of white flour from Aldi or Colruyt than to buy deodorant, children's tanges or sanitary protections, which are very expensive, regardless of the store. Part of the aid will therefore go to hygienic products. Budgets have not yet been decided. I'm going to have negotiations with the associations. Furthermore, it is important to stress that social support will be provided to beneficiaries of food aid or material aid, so that they remain as long as possible in material aid and in precarious conditions. The goal is to get people out of poverty. I do not cry out victory by saying that we are going to put 27 million euros in 2021 and 2022. It's not a victory. This means that today, poverty and insecurity are even stronger than before, and that the crisis has strengthened them. In addition, there is a new audience: students, artists, undocumented people, and the entire informal economy, including single-parent families, part-time unemployed – many women work part-time. So this is not a victory, but we have to meet the needs today, because it is necessary. In this way, no problems should arise in terms of access to food and hygiene needs. As far as the retail sector is concerned, it has indeed been shaken by the covid crisis. In addition, the previous government was in day-to-day business until last October – it won't have escaped you. Until recently, until the end of last week, there was uncertainty about the resources allocated to food aid. I had to wait for the decisions taken by the regional governments. For this reason, discussions with COMEOS had been put on hold. As you will understand, the last uncertainties have been lifted today. We will therefore resume contact with COMEOS in order to move forward with this partnership.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u56	Madam Minister, thank you. That good news is really important. This increase in food aid makes it possible to objectify the seriousness of the economic and social crisis we are facing, as well as the precarious situation in which too many citizens are plunged. I am therefore pleased to hear that the resources released for 2020 will be maintained for this year and for 2022. Similarly, your appeal was heard in the Brussels Region and Wallonia in an attempt to exceed the minimum threshold of 10%. Could we not ask for the task force "vulnerable groups", which you mentioned in your previous reply, in order to achieve harmonisation of this threshold and to encourage Flanders to raise it up to 15%, as is the case in the other regions? This is a reflection that I submit to you. Secondly, to extend food aid to hygienic products seems fundamental to me. Moreover, this joins the action of the Brussels government, which works heavily on menstrual precariousness, and therefore on the free distribution of sanitary protections. As far as large distribution is concerned, I am glad to see that things are finally starting to move.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u57	Madam Minister, it is not just the Emergency Cash for Unemployment Benefits that is failing. Now there are also problems with the other payout institutions, namely the trade unions themselves. There is, among other things, no late reply to e-mails and telephone accessibility is also a problem. There is a delay in the rather complex dossiers, which would only be paid after two to four months. Those who are less digitally informed can go to the local department of their trade union. Here too, however, the waiting times are increasing. Worse still, dozens of people spend hours on it every morning, hoping for one of the tickets to apply for unemployment benefit. If you do not have a ticket, you are asked to return the next day or you will be referred bluntly to the RVA. As many of them are still struggling to make ends meet, the OMCW is therefore called upon to provide the persons concerned with an advance on their unemployment benefit. Reportedly, those applications increased by 80%. Madam Minister, is it true that there are 80% more applications from the OMCW for advances on unemployment benefit? Do you see an increase in other aid questions in the applicants? I am thinking, for example, of food aid or debt mediation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u58	Unemployment benefits are paid far too late by the institutions. This is becoming a problem for all trade unions, not just for the Emergency Cash for Unemployment Benefits. Many then come to the OMCW to request an advance on their temporary unemployment benefit. According to the RMI Act, the OMCW has one month to conduct a social investigation following the application for aid. The trade unions and the auxiliary cash will have more time for this; they will only have to send their file to the RVA after two months. This deadline has also been extended to four months with the crisis. In any event, each of these decisions is subject to an additional burden on the OMCWs. To what extent does this jeopardise the normal service of the OMCW? Is there a sharp increase? I just heard Mr Samyn talking about 80%. That is, of course, a significant figure, if it is still current today. Due to the fact that the trade unions and the auxiliary cash are given several months for an examination of the aid demand and not the OMCWs, advances may sometimes be wrongly granted. Is that indeed the case in recent months? In that case, what is the procedure? The payout institutions must repay the advances to the OMCWs. Has the recovery of the payments also been delayed? This could lead to a cash problem with the OCMWs. How's the procedure going? I have already mentioned the different deadlines for dealing with a dossier according to the institution. In your view, could a limitation of the statutory treatment period of the auxiliary cash and the trade unions in order to assess an application offer a solution? Is it possible to discuss it with your colleague, the Minister of Work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u59	Minister, the influx of new applications for temporary unemployment from payment agencies has caused a significant delay in the payment of benefits. This delay has led many people to find themselves in a very difficult financial situation. Many of them are forced to rely on CPAS, which in turn become submerged. Faced with these new demands, they have to cope with an overload of work and make financial advances to fill the backlog in the payment of unemployment benefits. What support will be given to these CPSAs under pressure? What human and financial resources are envisaged? How will repayments of these advances be made and within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u60	Colleagues, I am aware of the problems raised. Since the start of the corona crisis, the number of applications for unemployment benefit has increased significantly. There are indeed problems with the payment of this. We cannot accept that people in difficulty encounter even more problems due to delays. After several complaints I immediately contacted my competent colleagues Vandenbroucke and Dermagne. Together we must find a solution. In the meantime, the HVW took action. The situation is improving. As a spokesperson for the CPAS, I have agreed with the CPAS federations to organise specific meetings between the relevant payment institutions, whether it be CAPAC or trade unions, and the federations, to identify the exact problems and see how to respond quickly. The situation demonstrates once again the crucial role played by CPAS during this crisis. Their doors have always remained open and they have made sure that these people do not find themselves in a much worse situation. I do not have the figures on the increase in the number of cases because of this specific problem; but I can tell you that in terms of the repayment period or possible undue payments, no negative signal has been received from the CPAS federations. About knowing the figures of advances given by the CPAS, as is not in the organic law, they are not recorded by the SPP Integration. This means that each CPAS should be questioned. I can tell you that in some CPAS in large cities, there is sometimes an increase in advance requests of 20% or 25%. This is obviously significant. Compared to the workload of the CPAS, I have made money, i.e. EUR 19 million, so that the CPAS can engage, as a result of the additional policies they were asked for, in particular for supplementary aid. In fact, this is not my responsibility. I hope, like you, that the problems in the institutions concerned will be resolved as quickly as possible to allow the CPAS to resume their breath. In any case, I'm looking at this very closely. It should be noted that CAPAC, through Minister Dermagne, requested that it be able to extend until June the additional commitments it had made during the crisis, in order to respond to all requests. Compared to the unions, I heard that they had transferred a great deal of staff to meet the additional demands. So I hope that, gradually, the pressure on CPAS will decrease.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u61	Madam Minister, it is good that you are consulting with your competent colleagues and that the issue is being followed up, not only for the benefit of the aid applicants, people who are now in need, because they have no money in their accounts and are difficult to reach the end of the month, but also for the benefit of the OCMWs in view of the increasing workload. It is not possible for these services to be overloaded with applications in principle because other services do not work properly. I'm really glad it's being done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u62	Madam Minister, it is indeed a good thing that work is being done, but the OMCWs often solve everything that is being left out elsewhere. For the record, I am very much in favour of OCMWs; I certainly do not see them as something negative, because they are sometimes undervalued for what they are doing, which you undoubtedly agree with, Madam Minister. The problem is now very acute and, once again, many of these problems are, of course, linked to the crisis. On the other hand, the interaction between the OMCWs and the trade unions has been going on for some time. It will be worse than usual now, but from experience with my OCMW I know that it often has to wait a long time for the union's replies on repayments or recoveries. I am therefore concerned about the situation today. The issue has an impact on both the workload of the OMCWs and the financial situation of the OMCWs. I hope you will try to get the best possible view of this through consultation with the OMCWs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u63	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am glad to hear that you have made contact with your colleagues, which I had no doubt. I stress the importance of the work that CPAS do on a daily basis. They are always on the front line and must be supported. You explained that you had found ways in their favour, which is very positive. I also know that Minister Dermagne has made arrangements for the delay of CAPAC, as he explained to me in plenary. All we have to do now is to hope that everything will be in order as quickly as possible for these people in difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u64	If the contract of employment of a person who works full-time but also has a runway is broken, the RVA brings together part-time termination allowances so that unemployment benefits can be received more quickly. This is included in the legislation because otherwise the RVA would have to pay further interruption benefits during the period covered by the termination fee. The Pension Service apparently uses a different method of calculating the pension. This is based on the full duration of the part-time termination allowance. The difference between these two practices of the RVA and the Pension Service may result in the Pension Service treating the employee concerned as a part-time employee, for the year in which the employee's contract of employment is broken, and possibly for the year thereafter in the case of a long termination fee. This is possible because rights are built only on the basis of the part-time termination allowance, while it is true that workers who have always worked full-time and have used a runway. As a result, these people build up fewer pension rights and therefore have a lower pension. In this situation one is, as it were, between the two legislations, between the two methods of calculating. Madam Secretary, are you aware of this? Will you take action to ensure that workers who have a runway and have always worked full-time for it, and who are still being dismissed, do not build up less pension rights than someone who has worked full-time and does not have a runway? If you intend to do something about this, what exactly is that? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u65	Madam President, Ms Lanjri, the working methods of the FPD are fully in line with the legislation. This is a rather technical matter, as you explained. Pension rights shall be built up on the basis of employment benefits or periods for which a social benefit is received. The termination fee after a half-time runway shall be calculated on the part-time wage. Because the runway then stops, there is no equivalence for the other half. The RVA tries to partially compensate for this by calculating a theoretical end date from when unemployment is granted. For that period, the part-time break-up period has not been completed. For the second part, that is the case. The processing of the termination fee by the RVA is therefore also in accordance with the rules, but the RVA treats the termination fee in a different way. I have asked my administration to further examine the specific situation for these and perhaps other specific cases. We'll be sure to keep you informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u66	Madam President, Minister, I know it is quite technical, but it is important. That the RVA and the Pension Service act strictly according to the rules, but each according to other rules, should not result in people receiving less pensions than they are entitled to. Thank you for having it examined further. This may not be about one case. We have received signals that it may still occur. I would like to thank you for keeping me informed, for correcting this or for doing so in a different way, so that it will not happen again in the future, and for correcting this with retroactive effect in the cases where it has already been done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u67	Madam Minister, the government agreement states that the government will develop a system of voluntary work based on disability insurance, focusing on the specific nature of the target group. There are still many problems with the system of resumption of work for the disabled, particularly with regard to the risk of a reduction in incapacity for work in the event of a relapse compared to someone who has not entered such a system. In this case, people are at risk if they do work and fail to do so, and so they are relapsed. Thus, setting up such a system for people with disabilities will also require a great deal of research and preparation work, so that we do not experience the same thing as other disabled people, especially since the risk of relapse is greater and the effect on the benefit is only much later in time. That effect weighs very heavily for them. Persons entitled to an income replacement whose income changes must notify the administration within three months so that a review can be carried out one year later. It is therefore possible that their compensation may be reduced or even dropped by a recalculation. If they fail, they will also lose certain social and tax benefits, such as higher compensation and higher reimbursement in health care or the social tariff for gas and electricity. If they lose their jobs after a while, they must report it back to the administration. The adjustment of their compensation will then depend on several factors, which are difficult to predict. Former Minister Muylle, who used to sit in your seat, had a draft law ready to offer the opportunity to set up pilot projects. The aim was to set up a pilot project to enable people with disabilities to obtain an income from work in the context of an assisted reintegration process, in cooperation with regional employment services and local services, without having an impact on their benefits. It would normally be a three-year pilot project. An evaluation would then be carried out in order to arrive at a definitive and generalised regime. The preliminary draft was delivered to you by my colleague Nathalie Muylle. Moreover, it was approved by the enlarged core of ten parties during the government negotiations or just before, hence my questions. What's the status of that bill that allows pilot projects? It doesn't have to be that way of working. It does not mean that nothing else is possible, but it is a framework to enable pilot projects so that people with disabilities can work without losing their benefit. What is the state of this bill? Will you submit it to the committee soon? When can we expect it? Have you taken any other steps to implement the passage from the government agreement on voluntary activation of people with disabilities? I am talking about voluntary activation, because not everyone who has a disability actually has the opportunity to work. Some people want to work, but they can't because of their disability. If so, what steps and timing do you provide? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u68	Mrs Lanjri, when the government was set up, priority was given to increasing the lowest IVT, which will benefit some 120,000 people, and to abolishing the price of love. We are investigating the law to which you refer. Indeed, the National High Council for Persons with Disability and the Council of State both had important comments, which we would like to examine first. In addition, the draft law is a pilot project from which approximately 300 people would benefit. That is why I would first like to make a thorough assessment of the draft law and see whether it will contribute to the activation of people with disabilities or whether we should consider a different approach. As you know, supporting people who work or want to work is one of my priorities. Moreover, I have already taken the initiative to examine how we can make the status of self-employed persons accessible to people who are entitled to an IVT. These people would like to be able to work on an independent basis one or two days a week. Access to self-employed status should help them to do so. As you rightly point out, there is indeed a high risk that people with disabilities will receive disability benefits. That is why the reduction in the price of labour is one of my priorities, but I repeat that people who depend on a replacement income should certainly not fall out of the boat.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u69	Madam Minister, of course it is not a problem in itself that you say that there are still a number of urgent dossiers with which you are not quite ready. I hope that you will soon incorporate the comments of the Council of State and the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities into the draft law, because there is an effective agreement on the principle. There is an agreement in the Group of Ten on the draft law, which was completely completed. We also included this in the coalition agreement. I believe it is best that we allow pilot projects. Then not only is this project for 300 people in Flanders, but the framework law will also allow you to start other projects, in Brussels, in Wallonia, or in Flanders. It is a kind of framework that allows experiments to take place so that we learn lessons from these pilot projects. We have just had a debate with Minister Vandenbroucke on the reintegration of people who are long-term unemployed. It often goes wrong because it is very difficult. This is certainly so difficult for people with disabilities. So it's really important that you start from experience on the ground, and from different pilot projects. So I would ask you to make these pilot projects possible. This requires a draft law. Or if you would prefer it to be dealt with by means of a legislative proposal, you can, but I do not think we should do the work that Mrs Muylle has already done again. That's what's there. If necessary, update it and bring it to Parliament as soon as possible so that these projects can start. In Flanders, for example, people have been waiting a long time to start. Flanders has itself set up a number of projects. All it asks is that you ensure that people with disabilities do not lose their benefits if they are put to work in the meantime. That is a good thing. GRIP is also in favour of this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u70	Minister, a public sector worker who is retired early for physical incapacity does not enjoy the same rights and conditions as a general scheme employee, even if he or she is approaching the statutory retirement age. Since the amount of the pension for physical incapacity is calculated in the same way as the regular retirement pension of civil servants, the persons concerned would thus not be entitled to a full pension. In a 2017 report, Unia pointed out that a person with a chronic illness or incapacity for work can be considered a person with a disability and thus benefit from a reassignment in an area adapted to his or her situation. However, the final decision recognizing a staff member as unfit for the performance of his or her duties, but fit for the performance of another function, only rarely, if ever. In addition, the Federal Pension Service states that it is not possible for these individuals to buy back the unearned years. Minister, the problem of a pension for physical incapacity has serious social consequences. That is why I would like to ask you the following questions. Will this system be reviewed in the next pension reform? If so, what are the benchmarks? Will this be applied retroactively? If the person approaches the statutory retirement age, is it possible to replace this pension with incapacity for work benefits that would be granted under the sickness and disability insurance scheme? Is it possible, on a case-by-case basis, to allow persons designated as physically unfit to avail themselves of the vocational reintegration programme open to recipients of disability benefits? Can you tell us the number of persons identified as physically unfit over the past year?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u71	Ms Leroy, the government agreement provides for an evaluation of the pension scheme for physical incapacity in the public sector. To answer your question on the number of persons concerned, as of January 2020 there were 87,284 pensions for physical incapacity in terms of payment. In 2019, 2,710 retirement pensions for physical disability had been granted. For the evaluation as provided for in the government agreement, consultation will be established with the social partners and the federated entities which are also competent. Of course, the general principles of acquired rights and standstill will be guaranteed. With a view to a peaceful consultation, I shall not move on to the next steps today. What matters to me is that the person, the worker suffering from a health problem, is taken into account. The real situation of the person must be taken into account as much as possible and efforts must be made by the employer to find work suited to the specific situation, which, as you said, is not always the case. The public service must also play an exemplary role in this respect. You can count on me, along with the minister in charge of the Public Service, because she is the one who is very competent, too, to allow her to continue working. We will therefore assess, during this legislature, the pension for physical incapacity. The work has already begun. My firm is following the case carefully. Contacts have already been made with the teams of other ministers involved in the reform. You mentioned other types of allowances, for which Minister Vandenbroucke is competent. I also insist on social consultation, which will be extremely important. Indeed, it would be wise to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past if we were to succeed in this matter. Of course, I will not fail to return to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u72	Minister, I am reassured that all these elements are already the subject of an analysis, a reflection or a forecast for reform. At the most we ask questions here every month, at the most I realize that this pension reform will require an important work of debate, analysis and reflection. I thank you, in any case, for taking these elements into consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u73	Minister, I have also asked this question to Ministers Vandenbroucke and Dermagne, as there are several areas in which we can see each other. As you know, people using RIS (social integration income), GRAPA (income guarantee for the elderly) and ARE (return to work assistance) have been receiving an additional €50 since July. While this aid is not negligible for the most vulnerable, it does discriminate against other categories of people who also receive very low incomes. Indeed, we have found that for the first time, an unemployed person, an employee or a pensioner may have a lower income than those who benefit from this increase, even though they are equally in need of it financially. Any indirect discrimination which may lead to a particular disadvantage for persons with a separate criterion, without objective justification provided for by law, is nevertheless prohibited by the Act of 10 May 2007. It should also be borne in mind that the number of unemployed people discriminated against by this measure could continue to increase, since unfortunately there is a risk that there will be more entry into unemployment than exits in the coming weeks and months. Minister, can you tell us the number of people affected by this discrimination in 2020? Do you intend to automate this aid for those who are discriminated against because of their status, although their income is lower than that of the beneficiaries who are entitled to the additional EUR 50?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u74	Mrs Leroy, I agree with you. Moreover, the PS defended this proposal for an extension of the 50 euro supplement to the categories you quote. We defended it alongside the CD&V, but no agreement could be reached within the government. So we were two parties - not families - to defend the principle. You know that the payment of this additional EUR 50 will continue until June. Similarly, you know that an appeal was brought to the Constitutional Court by anti-poverty associations, without their arguments being accepted. It is therefore no longer possible to invoke the anti-discrimination law in this respect. For the rest, you know that what needs to come out of a government is a consensus. As far as statistics are concerned, you did well to question my colleagues, because Mr Dermagne will be able to answer them. I don't have them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u75	Minister, it will be a matter of soliciting the other members of the government on the fact that they have rejected this issue of discrimination. I actually had this information, rereading the question. But when it was filed, it wasn't. I wonder about the €115 million available for new beneficiaries. The question is whether beneficiaries of replacement income could make this approach to ask for the additional €50.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u76	Of course! I am speaking under the control of the former minister who is present since the 115 million, which are being extended, had been decided under the government in day-to-day affairs and I negotiated it when I had another hat. It is clear that any person who suffers from a decrease in income (this is not the case for the categories you report since their allowances have remained fixed), which may justify an increase in expenditure (children at home, internet connections, school meals, etc.). may be eligible for assistance from CPAS. The 115 million are for all categories: workers, workers who have lost their jobs, beneficiaries who have seen their bills increase. But there will always be a lightened individual analysis, as foreseen in the Order in Council concerning the 115 million circular. These people can therefore go to CPAS, but as far as the 50 euros are concerned, there is automaticity and unconditionality, which is not the case for the categories you mentioned, even if several times these have been put on the table. There was no consensus on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u77	There is therefore no question of sending a circular to the CPAS saying that people isolated unemployed who would apply to the CPAS to benefit from the 50 euros until June...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u78	This is impossible because of the organic law, because it is always an individual analysis. We should have lists of all these people. The CPAS would make a decision that was not made by a government. Now, I don't think the 115 million would be enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u79	Therefore, this is not an argument for addressing CPAS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u80	Madam Minister, I see that you are well and that you have taken your marks perfectly in matters that you already knew. I congratulate you and thank you for that. A large part of the population is tired of covid measures – including Mr.Nollet. We all wish, of course, to have contact with our loved ones, to hold them in our arms. We want to visit our elders. I myself was going to visit my grandmother at a home in Charleroi before she died. Today, people can't do it. All this is very painful. If the measures that have been taken are those, then naturally we must be careful to avoid the saturation of hospitals and the dramatic consequences that this can bring. It is for these reasons that cities and municipalities have had to cancel a series of carnival festivities, in particular. I was a little shocked, given the recommendations that I myself had been able to deliver to the CPAS to go through the crisis in the most satisfactory sanitary conditions, and even if it was probably from a good intention, to see Charleroi's CPAS organize a micro-carnival in a nursing home. We know how vulnerable residents of nursing homes are to covid. It is quite incomprehensible, from my point of view, to have taken such a risk when we know the thousands of deaths of the covid who were residents of nursing homes. This is not a vendetta against Charleroi's CPAS, which does excellent work in a difficult region, but I would have liked, even if you do not have police powers – I have sent a similar question in writing to the Minister of the Interior – to ask you whether you had any further information. Were you also able to ensure, as the appropriate minister on CPAS, that they were reminded of how much compliance with the rules was more than desirable, if not essential? It is not only about the CPAS itself but also about teleworking for their workers and for all the institutions that depend on it. That is, in a few words, the question I wanted to ask you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u81	Mr Ducrame, I will reply in brief, since my powers are limited to the legal tasks of the CPAS provided for by the Organic Law of 8 July 1976. In this context, very specific instructions were provided. Making a lot of visits at the moment, I must say that they are very well respected, both in terms of the protection of workers and beneficiaries – while leaving the doors of the CPAS open – and we must welcome them. On the other hand, the internal functioning of nursing homes is the responsibility of the regional authorities, and more at all federal prerogatives. Although I went to a centre for homeless people in Charleroi, where all the rules were absolutely respected by the local CPAS and the associations that worked there, it is not my responsibility to ensure that internal rules are respected – a mission which is therefore the responsibility of the Regions. I won't talk about the other incidents. Festivals of Saint-Nicolas took place in some rest homes. In any case, since our seniors are vaccinated first and have common sense, they are 90% – I love seniors, because I have the impression that they are the ones with the most common sense in our society – I hope they will be able to relive moments of joy and participate again in activities when they are all vaccinated for the second time. I hope they were also in Charleroi. To sum up, for details on the "small party" and its consequences, it is better to question the Walloon minister concerned. In any case, I hope that has not led to any consequences – and I have not heard anything in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u82	Minister, I can confirm that this is the Region. Unfortunately, or rather fortunately, I am a Member of Parliament and I could not not react to this question. When we engage socially, in favour of our seniors, we want to give more. I'm sure that's what Mr. Van Cauwenberghe wanted to do the Charleroi CPAS. Unfortunately, this could have had a number of consequences because all residents had not received the double dose of vaccine. For having seen the images, I still thought it useful, as a former CPAS minister, to simply come to you with all the friendship I have with you to send a signal to some: this is really not the time, given what we have been through in the rest homes, to release the pressure. That is really the subject of my question. Madam Minister, thank you for your answer and I hope that in Charleroi, as elsewhere, everyone will take on their responsibilities by biting a little bit more on their own to protect the most vulnerable people in our society, the elderly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u83	Minister, on 1 January 2021, the ceiling for sickness and disability insurance (MIA) was raised to the monthly threshold of €1,597 for an isolated pensioner. However, this increase appears to cause inconvenience to some pensioners, namely a loss of BIM status. It is a damage that can have necessarily very important financial and social consequences for these people. A pensioner with low incomes has the possibility to benefit from this BIM status. However, with the raising of the threshold, even if the amount of its AMI contribution has fallen, the pensioner can find himself with annual income above the famous threshold of 19,957.16 euros and thus lose this right to the BIM status. The main problem is, therefore, that the decrease in the AMI contribution does not compensate for the loss of BIM status. Yet – and this becomes rather complex – the regulation of increased intervention – Article 4(2) of the Act of 13 March 2013 – explains that the 3.55 % withholding cannot have the effect of reducing the total pension as well as the benefits. INAMI states that the deduction of 3.55 % is not deducted from the pension for the calculation of the income taken into account in the increased intervention. However, the pension service would interpret the rules differently on the basis of different legal provisions, namely article 68 of the Act of 30 March 1994. Minister, are you aware of this situation? If so, have any actions been taken? Is it possible, in your opinion, to increase the BIM status ceiling in the same proportion as raising the AMI ceilings to avoid these difficulties?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u84	Madam President, the Royal Order of 20 December 2020 increased the threshold for the application of the AMI pension contributions. This was done in accordance with the Government Agreement in order to prevent an increase in the minimum pension from being fully or partially cancelled by the increase in the AMI contribution. It is very important that we pay attention to the threshold effects, that is, that what is given with one hand is not taken up with the other. I myself have received a signal that raising the MIA contribution threshold, and the resulting increase in the net pension, would result in a loss of MIB status for some retirees, as you have just said. On the basis of this information, my office immediately contacted the office of my colleague Minister Vandenbroucke, who is competent for BIM status, as well as INAMI. INAMI has indicated that, for the application of the BIM Statute, the gross pension is taken into account, i.e. the amount of the pension before any deduction of the AMI contribution. The raising of the threshold for the calculation of the MAI contribution therefore has no influence on this plan. This is explicitly confirmed in an INAMI Circular 2019/81. To the extent that mutual societies have correctly applied this circular in the past, the revision of the AMI threshold cannot, therefore, on the basis of the information provided to me, be the cause of the loss of BIM status. So there's a twist somewhere. You should certainly turn to Mr Vandenbroucke, who is also competent for mutuals, to examine the correct interpretation of this circular. We are in constant contact with INAMI to see if there are any other cases, to try to correct or make a global communication, so that people do not lose their BIM status, which is obviously a disaster.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic388x.u85	Minister, I understand and continue my journey to Minister Vandenbroucke to see if any information is available on her side. We will also conduct the audit with the calculation of the gross pension and the 2019 circular. Thank you for this valuable information.
