ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u1	I have pointed out to the Minister on several occasions the problem of rail safety. During the last summer vacation there has been another explosion of violence against Securail staff, with eleven employees of Securail dealing with an accident at work in 10 days. On Monday, 2 August, they held a protest at the station Brussels-Zuid. Are you aware of the number of accidents involved? Can you give a chronological order of the place, time, circumstances and consequences of the facts? What conclusions are drawn from these incidents? What concrete measures have you taken in response to yet another cry from the staff of Securail? For the illegal hunger strikers, ministers were prepared to leave at a fatal end. Are you prepared to do this if there is a fatal case at Securail?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u2	Mr President, Minister, I am again being questioned by the divisional commissioners of the province of Luxembourg about the increasingly important role they have to play in the problems that are usually the responsibility of the Railway Police (SPC). The disappearance of SPC Luxembourg is a fact. It's not even about dreading her anymore. Since my last question on the subject, the team has lost another member. There are only two of them for the whole province of Luxembourg. This lack of railway police personnel in the province of Luxembourg results in police information and communications centres 111 resorting to police areas in the event of problems on the rail. However, members of the local area are not trained to intervene on the tracks as this entails a high risk and a need for specific training and certification. They nevertheless intervene at their own risk in certain serious acts (violence, crimes) to the detriment of their other missions and especially the missions of the local areas. In my previous question on this subject, I asked you if you had any solutions to this situation. You said, "First of all, the services assigned to the safety of travellers must play their full part. An effective partnership requires a clear division of labour. As soon as there is more clarity on this point between the federal police and the local police, coordination with Securail will be facilitated and security will certainly be improved. In addition to this essential point, I will explore other complementary avenues and solutions, such as the granting of real-time access to SNCB surveillance cameras to police areas." Minister, where is the coordination with the Minister of the Interior on rail safety? Do you have any feedback from staff regarding a lack of rail police presence? What solutions do you plan to propose? Is access to SNCB images in local police areas effective? Do you think you can finance some of the local areas so that they can deal with the problems of the railway?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u3	Mr President, Minister, we all know someone whose bike was stolen at the station. It happens pretty often. Many people assume this is a risk and buy a cheap bike, thinking it might be stolen. That is a rather big problem, especially in the context of modal shift. We want people to come by bike to the station and it is important that we do something about this problem. At the beginning of September, another complaint came from the station in Ronse. The covered bicycle storage was put into service in June 2020 and immediately welcomed because it was extended by a third and offered 186 covered places. Now the bicycle room leaves a sloppy impression, there are broken bicycles on the ground that stay there for months. No one feels responsible for this. Users are disappointed. In the early hours the bike shed looks like a bike graveyard. According to local police, 90% of the thefts in Ronse Municipality take place in SNCB's bicycle shed. That's a disturbing figure, isn't it? Something must be done about that. Does SNCB have figures on the number of bicycles stolen from its own bicycle sheds? If so, can we get it? If there are no figures, what is the trend according to SNCB? Is there an increase or a decrease? Does SNCB have a plan to counter the vandalism and the theft in the bicycle sheds? What's the plan like? Mr De Jonghe, police commissioner in Ronse, said he had contacted Infrabel to examine the bicycle shed in Ronse. Has Infrabel been on the scene yet to analyze the situation? What steps will Infrabel take to increase safety? Is it intended that agents of Securail should also be surveyed in SNCB's bicycle sheds? How do you see it? What effect do you think the closure of 44 stop points by SNCB will have on the number of thefts in and around the train stations? Last time, I indicated that the increase in the problem of aggression is a social problem. There is more uncertainty and inequality, which also leads to more aggression, something that we do not agree with. For us, courtesy is also a form of solidarity. Unfortunately, rail workers, like other public functions, are increasingly confronted with this aggression. In recent months, there have been several cases of aggression among both the railway staff and the people of Securail. It is clear that the staffing frameworks of both the railway police, which are not within your competence, and of Securail and SNCB personnel, are inadequate. Without sufficient staff on the floor there will be more aggression and vandalism. For us, that is at the heart of the problem. That is why I would like to make a few comments. Firstly, we see that, for example, the additional tasks assigned to staff during the corona period caused problems. For example, there was the problem of mouth masks, where the staff had to check that they were worn, which often caused problems. Secondly, we see that there is a problem with staff shortages and the removal of points of contact. Due to the lack of substation chiefs, for example, the train connections are less closely connected. Thirdly, we also see that the global shortage of staff is causing more aggression. A letter from the ACOD Spoor was published last summer to talk to you about the problem and to take action in this area. Did you receive the letter from the ACOD effectively? Has that letter been discussed yet? What's your answer to their grievances? What is your view of the problem? Do you understand that the railroad personnel on the premises feel more unsafe because of the staff dismantling? How many percent of the accidents at work in the railway staff of SNCB and Securail are the result of aggression? We would like the figures for the last three years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u4	Mrs Buyst is sorry, she is now in the Committee on Energy and will read the answer afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u5	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, violence on the railways has unfortunately become a recurrent phenomenon. Almost a week goes by without sad events in the trains and stations. It happens even in the workshops of SNCB, until stabbing. It's really not to be seen. Also this summer many Securail employees were put in hospital. It's starting to run out of spigates. What security measures have been taken in the last year to protect SNCB's employees, possibly with an extension to Infrabel? Are there places, stations, parkings or landings where additional camera surveillance is provided? I also hear rumors about an upcoming reform of Securail. Could you give me a hint of the veil? What interventions are going to be there? Mr Vindevoghel has already referred to the socialist trade union, who himself made a number of proposals to improve safety. I would like to join her in her question. I also refer to smaller independent trade unions which have made proposals in this respect. One of the more drastic proposals in this respect was an idea of METISP-Protect, which is asking for the use of telescopic batons by Securail. That is rather drastic, but I would have liked to have heard your views on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u6	Mr President, Minister, in recent months and beyond the structural violence already denounced in previous debates in this committee, there have been a series of violent incidents against SNCB and Securail agents. My colleagues have referred to different situations on the ground, whether in the province of Luxembourg, in Forest or in Brussels more generally. Attacks have taken place in Liège-Guillemins and staff report a growing sense of insecurity. A few months ago, I asked your colleague the Minister of Justice about the lack of prosecution of complaints about employees of transportation companies who were victims of assault. Circular No. 3/2008 was to be revised for this particular situation. However, the situation remains unchanged despite the injunction of the Minister of Justice. Minister, do you confirm the increase in the numbers of attacks on SNCB and Securail personnel? Is there a plan to strengthen the staff of Securail and the railway police in collaboration with your colleagues? What leads are you studying to improve the safety at work of rail personnel? Do you have any information regarding the follow-up to Circular No. 3/2008 and the requests of your colleague in the Department of Justice to the College of Attorneys General?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u7	Mr President, the subject is important. All my fellow Members have formulated it in their own way. When I took the train from Arlon to Brussels this Sunday, I saw some special situations for our attendants and for our railwaymen. This question is very important to me. No one should fear for his safety when he goes to work, and certainly not those who are at the service of the community and in direct contact with the public. Unfortunately, the increase in attacks on SNCB agents is not a new phenomenon. It has long been seen and recognized by all, to such an extent that SNCB has undertaken specific prevention campaigns to draw the attention of travellers to this serious problem. Without calling into question what has been done in the past, it must be noted that the attacks continue. This means that the answers are not sufficient to guarantee the safety of railway workers. Violence is unacceptable in our society. The public authorities have an obligation to deal with it all the more when it comes to those who serve it. Minister, what is the evolution of the aggression figures in recent years at SNCB? What are the results of SNCB's campaign against attacks on its staff? How do you explain the difficulty in combating these attacks? What solutions are proposed and implemented to address them? Do you hear the requests of railway representatives to deal with this situation? Thank you in advance for your answers. I will listen to them later, because I have to intervene in the Climate Committee. I will go back and forth so that I can continue with my other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u8	Mr President, I have raised a lot of questions on this subject in the past, because it is not a phenomenon. The previous speakers have outlined the problem and the incomprehension for it very well. I would just like to zoom in on the letter from the ACOD Spoor to you and Minister for the Interior, Mrs Verlinden, to raise this issue. What happened to that letter? I assume you received the letter correctly. In the meantime, have you sat around the table with the unions? Do you believe that extra Securail staff and railway police are needed? What measures do you intend to take to increase safety? Do you have the numbers for the last five years?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u9	Minister, there are a lot of questions and interventions. I invite you to respond in a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to see you again and hope that we will be able to work well together in the coming months. The safety of passengers and railway staff is an absolute priority for me. My cabinet and I follow closely the figures relating to the acts of violence committed by SNCB and have been informed of the cases mentioned in the press. I will not go into the details of the interventions to respect the privacy of the persons concerned. Since some cases have given rise to a complaint, I cannot give notice on current cases either. On the one hand, analyses carried out by SNCB's operational safety service show that the number of acts of violence specifically directed against Securail personnel has not increased. On the other hand, the number of interventions by Securail agents has increased since 2019, with an increase in the number of disability after some of these interventions. The increase from 2019 is mainly due to the fact that SNCB has made it easier for staff to report physical and verbal aggression. That's important. As regards Mrs Vindevoghel's question on accidents at work, I refer to the answer I gave to Mr Roggeman's oral question in the Committee on Mobility of 20 January 2021. Nevertheless, an examination of the interventions in recent months shows that certain improvements can be made to reduce the number of accidents at work occurring during this intervention. I am working with SNCB on a number of measures. Firstly, in the internal context of its Committee on Prevention and Protection at Work, SNCB has launched a risk analysis of aggression and will refine the follow-up of accidents at work related to interventions. Strengthening management in the field and improving the training and guidance system should also have an impact on the number of accidents at work. Secondly, more generally, SNCB wishes to carry out a broad reflection with its various partners, the police services, the Ministry of the Interior and that is more specifically the Ministry of the Interior. This analysis will not only focus on the resources and powers of Securail, but will also seek to define more clearly the division of tasks between Securail and the police. It is important to clearly define the role of each of them. In addition, consideration should also be given to the adequacy of the intervention procedure and to the means of defence and equipment of Securail. It is also important for the public to know that agents of Securail are judicial police officers within the meaning of the railway police law. Thirdly, in the coming weeks I will receive the organisations representing the staff of Securail, just as I did with the management of Securail in August 2021. A first meeting between my cabinet and the staff representatives of the ACOD and the ACV is planned for the coming days. On the other hand, Mr Arens, as we have already discussed, I asked my colleague, the Minister of the Interior, about the status of the reform of the Duquesne circular. I stressed the urgency of bringing this reform to fruition as soon as possible, and the need to take Securail into account in the exercise, in order to identify synergies between services. It is also essential to provide guarantees for an adequate police response, each of which must play its own role. The Minister of the Interior has confirmed to me that discussions are still under way between federal and local police. My colleagues are waiting to be able to participate in the discussions. I could have said they're impatient, because they are. With regard to images from surveillance cameras in the SNCB domain, access to SPC is effective, but access will not be granted to local police. This aspect is linked to the discussions on the reform of the Duquesne circular and will also be discussed in the near future. Several technical options are possible. If necessary, they will have a significant cost which the State will have to bear, in any case the Ministry of the Interior. Mr Roggeman, Mrs Vindevoghel, you are right to say that I am very concerned about all the measures that promote the use of bicycles. On 24 September, with BE CYCLIST, the government drew up the first federal action plan to promote the bicycle, with me as coordinator. I am therefore very pleased with the ambitious plan, in which all my fellow ministers and secretaries of state are taking action. One of the axes on which I myself work with my colleagues from the Interior and Justice Department is the study of a central register against bicycle theft. The fight against bicycle thefts will also be included in the new version of the Integrated Safety Framework Paper. For the figures of the bicycle thefts, SNCB bases its risk analysis on police figures regarding safety in bicycle sheds, as bicycle thefts are mainly reported to the local police. However, due to the covid period, the figures available to SNCB today are no longer up-to-date and reliable. SNCB has the impression that the number of bicycle thefts has not been reduced, but that the willingness to report has decreased, making it difficult to give a realistic picture of the situation on the basis of objective figures. The bike train is a winning combination. That's why I got into a general cycling policy. I already worked with SNCB on a cycling-train strategy with rapid improvements and a long-term strategy. The federal government worked out a federal cycling action plan on my initiative for the first time, called BE CYCLIST. Mrs. Vindevoghel, Securail is not present 24 hours a day at Ronse station. When Securail patrols the station of Ronse, the bicycle storage is also taken. So far, no irregularities were detected during the patrol moments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I'm pretty happy today. As you know, I have long been concerned about this issue, because I have often interplayed with you on this issue, including in plenary. I am pleased, not so much about what you are saying, but above all about the fact that there is at last a topical debate today and that I am no longer doing this alone. After all, there are nine interpleans and I have seen written questions pass through. I can also see that Mrs Verlinden is being questioned in the other committee. I can only welcome this. I do not have to judge the approach of my fellow Members. For some it may be political opportunism, others may not even be interested in the answer, but I am convinced that some colleagues are genuinely concerned about the situation. When they say that the situation is getting out of hand, they really mean it. You don't give details of the facts that have been there. I still have some understanding for that. If you are here to tell me that the figures of direct physical aggression against Securail personnel would fall, I find that more difficult, because that minimizes the issue. The figures show the opposite. In 2019, there were 86 direct cases of aggression against Securail agents, in 2020, there were 191 cases more than double cases and in April 2021 we were already at 110 cases. So we're gonna break the record this year easily. Which brings me to the plans that are being made. What we really need is short-term action to ensure the safety of both staff and passengers. However, that is missing from the explanation you are giving here. I see a number of things that can be a good approach, but the review of risk analyses and procedures has not improved rail safety in the stations and trains tomorrow. I will follow with great interest what you are going to do and, above all, look forward to the management agreement. I've completely missed the aspect of personal security in your policy plans. So I look forward to what will happen in that area. If you wish to enter into the conversation with Securail, I would advise you not only to talk to the management or trade union representatives. You use public transport and I advise you to speak with random Securail agents in the stations and on the train.You will learn much more from that than from the people you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u12	Minister, I am pleased to know that you have placed this issue among your emergencies, because it is true that it is very important. As a mayor, I am a member of a police college in which we really face a lack of police presence in our different areas. Given the low presence of the railway police in our province, this is almost impossible to manage. We are already financing a series of police officers on the area, using communal budgets. Either you come up with an agreement with your colleague from the interior, or I ask you to take care of the hours of service of the police officers in our area. As a commune, we must do so. So I really insist that a solution be found. When problems of this importance arise, it is my practice to continue my interventions and inquiries until a solution is found. So that's what I'll do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u13	Mr President, I think we are underestimating what this means to the staff. Imagine having worked a whole day and having problems with aggression at the end of your performance. Know what that means for all those working people who are afraid to go to work and risk getting into aggression. We really need to take serious action against this. You have already said a number of things about your cycling plans. I hope that these plans are progressing. However, you underestimate the impact of all these savings on staff. When many people stand alone behind the counter and no one else is present, they risk more aggression and more problems. There's got to be enough staff at Securail, too. Now those people have to walk from one problem to another. However, they cannot be everywhere at once. According to what I hear from the previous speaker, there is no one even in certain regions. How can we fix that? There is a need for serious investment in this area, otherwise it will never work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. This is a very important theme. That is why several questions are being asked about it. We should not faint, the train is part of society. We see aggression along the football field, we see aggression in traffic, we see aggression in shops. Did the corona crisis play into that? No doubt. The problem we are addressing today is the aggression on the train. We risk losing passengers. People must be able to feel safe on the train. This applies not only to every employee, but also to every passenger on the train. That's a vulnerable place. I am pleased that you have given a number of suggestions on this matter. I would recommend that you continue to consult with the partners and seek solutions. Mr Toventors said that you should listen to the Securail agents, because they can do better than the trade unions. Then I have the feeling that he has not read the letter from the trade unions, which is full of concerns and suggestions. So I thought his comment was a little off the record.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. The number of acts of violence in itself may not increase, but the number of cases of incapacity for work clearly shows that the severity of violence is increasing. This is a worrying trend, because we see it not only in the railroad sector but also in many people who perform a public office with an apparent authority. The most striking thing is that of course with the police, even in interventions in the big cities. In Brussels, even firefighters must fear for their safety. Now we see the same worrying trend with the railway workers. It is clear that everyone, across party boundaries, agrees that there is a need for a strong signal. The message that everyone should stay away from our employees must be central. Further action is needed. There is a need for more cameras, more access controls and more surveillance, including in our railroad system. You promise improvement, and I sincerely hope that you will be able to achieve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answers. Indeed, acts of violence, whether in Belgium or in neighbouring countries such as Germany or France, are worrying, whether for rail or, more generally, for civil servants. We must be concerned about this phenomenon. I welcome the Minister's responses, which are comprehensive responses to work that must be shared with the Minister of the Interior, but also with the Minister of Justice, because we must act on all the links in the chain, not only with regard to measures to strengthen security on the ground, but also with regard to the monitoring of complaints and cooperation with the rail police. Minister, I am also pleased to hear that you are focusing your work and your reflections on the consultation that will be held with Securail and the workers' representatives in the near future. This is extremely important and I think we will have to have this debate again in a few weeks to see what could have been achieved in this area. Thank you already for the answers you have given today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u17	Minister, this is the third time I've asked you questions about the Arsenal site in Ghent. The site of 13 hectares, a former workshop of SNCB in Gentbrugge with huge potential for urban development, is currently on sale. The city and SNCB have jointly developed a vision for the creation of a new district of the future, with a mix of small-scale manufacturing industry, experimental space and space for affordable living. This vision also enjoys a great support in Ghent, among others among the residents of the neighborhood. It is reported that the site, which has been for sale for several months now for a set price of 30.6 million euros, already has bids of more than 60 million euros and a third bidding round in progress. Minister, in my city there is a fierce debate about the desirability of keeping that site in full or in part public hands. Many people rightly fear that, in view of the commercial offer on that site, the danger of speculation lurks around the corner and a private developer, because he would have paid a huge amount of money for the site, would demand that he do so, despite the well-developed vision. On 5 July, the city council sent you a letter. I raised the issue with you a week later, asking whether it can at least partially acquire the site through purchase or expropriation to anchor at least the function of affordable living. In the middle of July, you replied that you would understand the reasons for the city, conduct a legal investigation into the possibilities and ask SNCB to sit down with the city at the table. In the meantime, we're three months later. There hasn't been an answer to that letter yet. There has also been no consultation between the city and SNCB. We do not hear from SNCB, but of course the sales procedure continues. We fear that we may be faced with facts that have been fulfilled. That would be a great pity and a great missed opportunity. What about the sales procedure? Is she over? How many bids have been received? What's the highest bid? Has it been decided to whom the site will be sold? Have you examined whether it is possible for the city to acquire at least part of the site itself in order to achieve the function of affordable living? My second question is about the temporary content of the site, because of course such a site is not developed in the short term. A call was therefore also launched for the appointment of a concessionaire to set up until 31 December 2025 activities that add value to the district and its inhabitants and thus avoid emptiness and neglect of the site. On July 5, Revive became known to be the preferred candidate for this. Negotiations were started, but I heard that they were difficult, partly because of the conditions under which the agreed period for temporary implementation can be shortened. According to news hot off the needle, a concession agreement would have been signed with Revive at the end of last week. Can you confirm that? If not, what elements are still under discussion? Can you also confirm that it is indeed the intention to appoint the temporary manager until 31 December 2025, as mentioned in the SNCB call?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u18	Mr President, Mr Vandenbroucke has already outlined the situation very well. The procedure with different rounds for bids by candidate buyers is ongoing. According to my information, the latest round was closed on 3 September and the highest bid was EUR 61 million. In previous discussions in committee, you stated that the possible expropriation of the site was on the table. Do you still consider this and have you discussed it with SNCB or have you chosen to respect the current procedure? Is there any other real estate of the SNCB or Infrabel for which you are considering an expropriation procedure and, if so, for which real estate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u19	Minister, normally the interested parties had until 13 August 2021 to bid. That was agreed with the developers. What the PVDA feared and predicted now comes true: the price of the land has gone through the roof. As previous speakers have already pointed out, there has been an offer of EUR 61 million, while the institution price was EUR 30 million. The project is therefore absurd and counterproductive to address the housing crisis. When the land price for a new project is so high, it is certain that a private developer will not develop the site in a social way. Indeed, a luxury earning model is needed to get out of the costs and make a profit. Through its approach, SNCB's management is also responsible for the situation. Both you and the mayor of Ghent continue to discuss a consultation with SNCB. However, we wonder if there is a consultation with SNCB on the Arsenal site. We do not have that impression. It seems to us that SNCB has no regard for the social consequences of the sale by auction. However, SNCB is a public undertaking and should therefore behave in an exemplary manner. You are Minister, Ecolo provides the Chairman of the Board of Directors of SNCB. This puts you in a unique position to make a positive contribution to the fight against the Ghent housing crisis. You're effectively on the buttons. Yesterday 38 social organizations, including trade unions, brought the Flemish government to justice for its housing policy. So, after the climate case, we now also see the housing business. Currently in Flanders 155,000 families are on a waiting list for a social home. Also 47 percent of private rentals are of insufficient quality and 52 percent of private tenants spend more than one third of their income on rent. Access to affordable living is therefore an acute problem, also in Gentbrugge. Minister, what about the consultation between SNCB and the city of Ghent? Will the city of Ghent be able to acquire some of the land? Are you open to that? How will this happen in concrete terms? What about the expropriation procedures? Have you taken any steps to get them going? Do you support SNCB's sales policy? Are you taking measures to structurally adjust SNCB's policy in this area or will valuable urban land be sold again by auction in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u20	Mrs. Vindevoghel, you spoke a little too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u21	Mr President, Mr Vandenbroucke has already given a good introduction; I will not repeat the situation. I assume that the additional bidding rounds have taken place from a financial point of view. Were you informed in advance of the additional bidding rounds? Was an employee of your cabinet involved in prior consultation in SNCB? How are the bids coming? I am talking, among other things, about the talks with the city of Ghent and the thought trail of the expropriation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u22	Minister, how many bids did SNCB receive for the Arsenal site in the first and second rounds respectively? The second round ended on 3 September 2021. Who's the buyer? For what final price does it acquire the entire site or part of it? The city of Ghent would like to acquire part of the site. What are the options for this? Are any steps being taken to that end? I would like to refer to Tour & Taxis in Brussels. That former freight station received a very successful re-destination, which all of Brussels enjoys. In consultation with the city of Brussels, the real estate developer has created a landscape park, an event location, a business centre and a mixed residential area, inspiring to live, work, play and relax there. All this happened with respect for authenticity and architectural heritage. Have SNCB and the city of Ghent ever been able to make the comparison with Tour & Taxis? I also have specific questions about the cultural content. The Ghent culture sector would like to provide a temporary interpretation of the site. There would be a simple termination clause in the contract. SNCB or the new owner can simply terminate the contract for the temporary completion with a notice period of six months. Of course, this is a very serious problem for potential partners. Allow me to say that SNCB is leaving the site in a terrible state. In the last two years, the site has been seriously vandalized. In order to develop new activities, substantial investments will have to be made. A simple termination clause makes investing virtually impossible. Is it true that they want that cancellation clause? Is that not detrimental to the investment plan of the temporary initiatives? I also note that the negotiations are taking a very long time. SNCB chose to separate the temporary filling from the final filling. The temporary completion was awarded for the summer. Can you confirm, Minister, that the temporary implementation is separate from the final implementation? In other words, we are not waiting for a final buyer to realize the temporary implementation? Finally, for the temporary implementation, several organisations are concerned about the potential pollution on the site that could affect the health of the users of the site. Is that fear justified? Does SNCB take measures to reduce the possible contamination or presence of harmful substances?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed this dossier on a number of occasions in committee. SNCB informs me that it will not comment on the number of parties concerned nor on the amounts circulating until the sales contract has been concluded. So I cannot answer some of your questions. Such procedures could lead to a dispute or appeal and compliance with confidentiality rules is essential for the successful outcome. SNCB has been involved in the concept study carried out by the city of Ghent for the future of the Arsenal site since 2018. The cooperation was set up because both SNCB and the city realized that the elaboration of a joint vision of the future of the site was important. The concept study examined how a monofunctional workshop can be transformed into an innovative, interconnected and connected urban node. The future buyer must base himself on the detailed vision, which takes account of the heritage value of the buildings, the capacity of the neighborhood and the existing limitations in terms of building heights. To create an intertwined district, there is space for various forms of housing. It's about social and affordable living, among other things. The results were included in the market consultation documents for sales. SNCB stresses that the current sales procedure is the result of months of good cooperation between the city and SNCB. The future temporary occupation is also the result of the intense consultation between the two parties. SNCB considers that it is bound to organise a market consultation through an open and transparent procedure, in the light of the general principles of equality, non-discrimination and transparency. SNCB therefore considered that a direct sale to the city was excluded. As I announced in committee in July in response to the city's letter, I have meanwhile had the various legal possibilities examined. This study makes it clear that SNCB's real estate operations are subject to different legislative and regulatory texts. However, these texts are not in agreement in all respects. The conclusions of the study are as follows: Firstly, in the medium term, changes will have to be made to either the management contract or the 1991 law or both. I do not need to remind you that I am currently working on a new management contract between SNCB and the State. Secondly, in the current Belgian legal and contractual framework, a direct sale to local authorities is contrary to European law and competition obligations. As long as there is a contradiction between the management contract and primary European law, SNCB acts legally most correctly by complying with the latter in the file of the Arsenal site. In my letter of July 2021 to SNCB and the city of Ghent, I invited them to sit around the table and clarify their respective intentions. In the meantime, both have indicated that they will follow up on this. Such consultations will take place in the coming weeks. SNCB certainly confirms to me that the city as a stakeholder and through its urban planning powers will in all cases also remain involved in the later development of the site. We discussed the rules in force for the expropriation procedure and its conditions in detail at the meeting of the Mobility Committee on 6 July 2021. However, I will repeat some elements of what was said at the time, as both Mr Rogkeman and Mrs Vindevoghel apparently assume that it is a federal competence to initiate an expropriation procedure. As a result of the sixth state reform, the regions were given the power for expropriation. The local authority concerned must therefore follow the procedure and conditions in the Flemish expropriation decree. Such a procedure may only be possible where the acquisition of the goods is necessary in the context of the public interest. There should also be no other possibility of acquisition. The decision to expropriate must therefore be justified by the local authority in question in the light of purposes of general interest, in accordance with the Flemish Decree. It is therefore not for the federal government to decide on the appropriateness of a decision to initiate a procedure of expropriation. However, the federal authorities must grant additional authorisation through a royal decision in the event that such a procedure would concern the expropriation of a railway company's property, on the basis of the assessment of whether the real estate in question is still useful for the railway operation. The reasoning behind this additional protection against expropriation is clear. If railway undertakings could be expropriated without that control, railway activities would not always and everywhere be insured. I explained the exact procedure at the previous committee meeting. I do not think it is appropriate to start such a procedure for the time being. First of all, I await the consultation between the city administration and the SNCB. Finally, Mr Vandenbroucke and Mr Briers, as regards the temporary implementation, the temporary occupation has recently been granted to Revive. It is a good example of the intense consultation and cooperation of the last few months between the city and SNCB. Pending urban development, SNCB, in close cooperation with the city of Ghent, gave the green light for an ambitious temporary implementation of its former central workshop. The Ghent company Revive is commissioned to revive the site in the period 2022-2025. These include sports activities and cultural activities, education and research initiatives, business storage facilities and the creation of a food hall and microbrewery. Revive and the city presented the plans to the neighborhood in September during an info moment on the site. Mr Briers, the temporary and permanent implementation was carried out according to the different procedures. The respective allocation is therefore indeed independent of each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You've unleashed a lot of information on us, which we appreciate. That is why we are asking the question. Firstly, I am very surprised at your statement that the sale procedure is the result of months of good cooperation between the city and SNCB. Last week we discussed this in the city council of Ghent, where at least the reverse impression was given. On 6 July, you stated in Parliament that, following the letter sent by the city, you expected SNCB to sit with the city. We are three months later and no signal has come from SNCB and now you say that you are still waiting for the discussion between the city and SNCB on a number of matters. I dare ask you, as the competent minister, to encourage SNCB to finally contact the city administration in order to clarify its intentions with the site. The Engineers are entitled to that. Secondly, you were very clear about the possibility of direct acquisition of part of the site. That's not possible. The only door still open, although not obvious, is an expropriation procedure, for which the city's initiative lies under the conditions laid down in the Flemish decree. It is necessary to justify why expropriation is necessary in the public interest and there should be no other possibility of acquisition. Personally, I believe that these two conditions could be met if the case were properly motivated, but that is a decision for the city administration. As far as the temporary implementation is concerned, one thing is not entirely clear to me. You confirm that Revive is designated for the temporary implementation until 2025, but has a concession agreement been concluded effectively? Has the negotiations between Revive and SNCB ended with a concession agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u25	Minister, I am a bit of a separate player in the debate, since I am not from Ghent. I have listened very carefully to the needs of the Ghent colleagues. It's an interesting debate. It is tempting for governments to look at each other's properties to fill in local needs, but this conflicts with the autonomy of a public body. As long as SNCB cannot cover its own costs and is dependent on a federal government grant, a transfer of real estate below the mark value in practice amounts to a flow of funding between the federal and local authorities. As soon as that becomes a realistic scenario, many cities and municipalities will look at the real estate of the railways, all the more so because SNCB and Infrabel are among the landowners in our country today. I conclude from the debate that the local general interests and the private financial interests of our public companies are not aligned. Since the regionalisation of expropriation policy, Article 159 of the 1991 Act, which today regulates expropriation in relation to public enterprises, has not been adapted to reality. Perhaps an update of that procedure should be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u26	Minister, I note that no initiative for expropriation has been taken in recent months. Now you say the city of Ghent is competent. I can confirm the previous speaker's statement that, according to colleagues who are members of the city council of Ghent, the opposite of what you say is true. SNCB has apparently not taken any initiative towards the city of Ghent. So I would like to know what SNCB is telling you. Perhaps we should invite Mrs Dutordoir to our committee to explain, so that we can hear it directly from her. I would also like to question the democratic value of this. The population has nothing to say about it, even though the Gentenars are hungry for social housing. Apparently they are not heard to give substance to a project that is viable for the environment. By the way, I would like to point out that people living near the Tour & Taxis site had to struggle hard in the neighbourhood, so that after much discussion a balance was struck with social housing and green facilities. Moreover, not all sighs were met. For example, there are very few social homes in the area of Tour & Taxis. In particular, the real-estate companies have waved their hands and ensured that decisions have been taken to their advantage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. A lot has already been said. I'm not a resident of Ghent myself. I'll let you know. If I test what my colleagues from Ghent tell me to what you say, then I notice a difference between what SNCB claims and what is being told at local level. The answer you gave today will be given to my colleagues. They will follow it further. I look forward with great interest to the developments in the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u28	Minister, my first question concerns more specifically the state of the rail network. The consequences of this July's floods are heavy and have not yet been established. The human impact is tragic, both in lost lives and in destroyed homes for many families. Of course, our rail network has not been spared. Very quickly, Infrabel and SNCB communicated the closure of several lines. The images spoke for themselves. Very quickly too, Infrabel gave a precise timetable for the gradual reopening of these lines, so much so that most of the lines could quickly be put back into service. A real performance of men and women on the ground that we must salute. Unfortunately, given the global warming of our planet, such weather is likely to recur in the years to come. This is an additional challenge for the network manager. Like any repair or reconstruction, this work has a cost. However, our rail network, which the government has decided to refinance in view of its underfunding in recent years and its importance in an ambitious and sustainable mobility policy, does not, especially in the south of the country, have too much to spend. What is the status of the work due to the weather? Does the reopening of the lines mean the end of the repair work? In its future investments, does Infrabel take into account the risks posed by global warming and the likely extreme weather events that we face more regularly? What is the cost to Infrabel of the July weather? How much is covered by insurance? Mr President, my second question concerns more specifically the Free Path of Free Solidarity. Without going back to the damage of the floods and their material and human consequences, this concept of Free Path Free Solidarity has been put in place. It is in this context that, in order to bring their stone to the building, the regional public transport companies and SNCB, in consultation with the competent ministers, launched the operation "Free route Solidarity". The latter allows flood victims, who meet certain criteria, to travel free of charge throughout the national territory and benefit free of charge from the services offered by public transport undertakings. In fact, the communes concerned control the free routes and then the citizens affected are invited to go to their communal house to withdraw their free nominal route. The latter is, in principle, valid until 31 October 2021, when this solidarity action is supposed to stop. Nevertheless, an assessment of the situation will be carried out in mid-October to determine whether the action should be extended or not. Will this evaluation be conducted at national level, including the four transport companies and/or the four transport ministries involved? Or will these be four evaluations carried out independently by the three regional operators as well as by SNCB? In either case, who are the sponsors and what services are in charge of evaluating this public intervention? What criteria will be used by the evaluators to determine whether or not the solidarity action should continue beyond October 31, 2021? Can you specify the methodology that will be used to collect the data useful for conducting this evaluation? How many municipalities have ordered these free routes and how many? Is it possible to ask the municipalities for feedback on the number of passes issued to their administrators in relation to the passes ordered? Finally, what are the estimated costs for this operation, whether for transport companies or for different governments? What is the framework for these expenditures?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u29	Mr President, reference has already been made to the disaster in Wallonia, the consequences of which are very great. I shall confine myself to the questions. What lines have been hit by the floods? Which of these are already 100% operational? Which lines are still out of use today and when will they be operational again? How are travellers whose train line had suddenly become unavailable helped in their travel needs? Were the subscription holders compensated by SNCB? Are Infrabel and SNCB insured for such natural disasters? How did they bury the damage? Does Infrabel have sufficient financial reserves to carry out the necessary repairs? What is the current authorised debt ceiling of Infrabel? How far is Infrabel from that debt ceiling? Is the use of a debt ceiling, given the circumstances and the additional investment that our track needs, a sensible choice? Doesn't a maximum debt from Infrabel prevent the shift towards climate-friendly public transport? Will these unforeseen repairs affect other Infrabel shipyards? Will these unforeseen repairs affect maintenance work elsewhere in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u30	Mr President, Mr Vandenbroucke asked that the Minister be present in committee a little more often. In return, however, I would like to look into my own mind and argue for a more concise topical debate. After an hour of meetings, we have only arrived at the third topical and urgent debate. I refer to my written question, particularly on the fourth point, which I did not find in the other colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u31	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u32	Mr Minister, the heavy floods that hit our country also caused a great deal of damage on and along the railways. My question is already somewhat dated. I read this morning that the planned date of 4 October was reached and that the network is back operational, for which I congratulate the people of Infrabel and all those who have contributed to it. The communication of Infrabel and SNCB was also very good, because the ball was played briefly. Mr. Secretary, the network is back in operation. Are all trains now at full capacity? Are there any speed limits? Are all works completed or are any works necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u33	Minister, may I ask you to reply within ten minutes, if possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u34	Mr President, I will try, but there were many interesting questions. Ladies and gentlemen, the terrible floods that struck Belgium during the month of July will remain engraved in our memories, with more than 30 victims and immense material damage, particularly in the Verviers region as well as in the province of Namur and some other provinces. The weather also had a major impact on the rail network. About 25 sections were impassable as a result of the floods, forcing Infrabel – with my agreement – to stop much of the traffic in the south of the country from the beginning of the floods. The damage has been at the height of the floods: scalds of slope over hundreds of meters – including slopes that had not moved since the beginning of the railway – floods, mud and rubble in the tracks, bridges and walls carried or destroyed, catenaries ripped out, signal booths and electric cabins flooded and therefore totally out of use, cables ripped off, crossings destroyed, and I pass it... I think we've all seen these terrible images of homes destroyed, and the network has also been hit hard. Infrabel's teams have done an absolutely titaniumic restoration work in two and a half months. The day after the floods, they were on the bridge. I have had the opportunity to visit several sites, and I would like to highlight the impressive mobilization of Infrabel's workers and subcontractors from our network operator. This unprecedented mobilization of human and material resources, with a progressive timetable that has been broadly respected – with a few exceptions, because it is not always possible to assess the extent of the work to be carried out – has meant that today all sections are reopened to traffic, which is a real feat. Take, for example, the last line between Spa and Pepinster, which has just been put back into service, some of which had been literally ripped off. New bridges were ordered within three days by Infrabel, which is also a prowess in terms of public procurement, beyond the technical work carried out. Line 37 had been completely closed due to the weather. On 1 September, the section between Liège and Nessonvaux was reopened and the section between Nessonvaux and Pepinster was returned to service on 13 September. Line 161 was severely disturbed between Ottignies and Gembloux, specifically at Mont-Saint-Guibert. After being partially restored to service at the end of August, the section had to be closed again as a result of a slope collapse that damaged the tracks. It was necessary to bring tens of tons of stone on roads that were not very accessible, encroaching on private properties, with work difficult to carry out given the height of the hill. Line 44 between Spa and Pepinster has just been put back into service this Monday. The Finance Department of the Infrastructure Manager is responsible for assessing the financial impact of all damage and conducting discussions with the insurance companies that will intervene on the front line. This is a significant work that will take time, given the considerable impact of this disaster on the network. The first estimates of damage are in tens of millions of euros with more than 60 million euros already recorded. It is clear that, as the competent minister, I will ensure that these large amounts of money that must be spent on network repair do not interfere with the other investment work that is planned and necessary. Unfortunately, the IPCC's scientific reports are unappealable. Such an extreme weather phenomenon is likely to reoccur. If we are to continue to fight climate change, we must also put in place strategies for adaptation and resilience to the consequences of climate change. In this context, Infrabel has analysed the infrastructure elements sensitive to climate change under the 2017 National Adaptation Plan to Climate Change. The infrastructure manager refers in particular to the study Adaptation of Railway Infrastructure to Climate Change carried out by the railway sector at international level. The Federal Adaptation Plan included two railway infrastructure measures. Firstly, it was a question of identifying the problems of rail transport. Secondly, long-term rail planning would take into account the expected effects of climate change. Following these measures, Infrabel analysed the critical elements, namely the dimensioning of its drainage plant in the event of heavy rainfall. Infrabel will adapt the directives for the internal drainage of renovation works and new infrastructure as part of a wider set of technical guidelines for hydraulics. Moreover, Infrabel takes preventive measures against trees in the railway domain that could fall and thus have an impact on rail traffic. Infrabel regularly participates in information sessions on global warming and also consults with stakeholders to identify actions to be taken. Meetings are also organised on a regular basis to analyse incidents linked to the climate problems that caused many delays, such as extreme heat or floods. The participation of various stakeholders in these meetings shall be ensured by SNCB, railway operators, police, firefighters, municipalities and civil protection. As regards the Free Cards Solidarity, SNCB, TEC, De Lijn and STIB, in consultation with my cabinet and those of the Walloon, Flemish and Brussels Mobility Ministers and the Flemish Minister for the Interior, provide transport tickets to the most affected municipalities and victims, to enable them to move around the territory free of charge. The Free Cards Solidarity are only issued by the municipalities and are intended for victims of the floods whose mobility has been affected. These are people who live in the municipalities affected by the floods and whose home has become uninhabitable and/or whose personal means of transport have become unusable. These free routes have been available since 25 August, which is a feat given the short period within which they were set up. By that date, they could be handed over to the citizens concerned at the premises of their respective municipal administrations. The Solidarity Free Route is valid on all networks of SNCB, TEC, De Lijn and STIB until 31 October 2021. This two-month period will allow victims to reorganize themselves. We will assess the situation in mid-October and, in consultation with the various partners, we will determine whether the action should be extended. As of 24 September, 54 communes had requested just over 14,000 free routes. They have been invited, through an online form, to keep a register of the persons to whom they have given this Free Path Solidarity. As the IPCC points out, these floods are a clear consequence of climate change. Some of us thought that this climate change would affect elsewhere and later, but unfortunately it strikes here and now. Such disasters are likely to happen again. In view of this, inaction is no longer an option and it is now clear that the fight against climate change is a national security issue and that the train has a major role to play. I guess I don't have to convince you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I'm glad there's been a quick response. In all honesty, I have every confidence that the file will be handled properly. I assume that we will come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u36	Minister, I was absent for a moment, because I had to vote in another committee. I will certainly hear your answer again. I would particularly like to express my thanks to all the staff of Infrabel and SNCB, who have started working as quickly as possible to deal with the problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u37	Minister, I would also like to thank the staff who have worked very hard. It was a great deal of work, so a great deal of thanks to all the staff, both from Infrabel and from the subcontractors, who made sure that the traces affected were restored so quickly. In any case, we are concerned about the under-financing of Infrabel, a subject that we are about to discuss. Infrabel, in our view, is not given enough resources to do what it has to do across the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u38	Mr Minister, I will read the report very carefully, because you have given a very comprehensive answer, and I thank you for that. I, too, would like to take this opportunity to thank the staff of Infrabel and SNCB on the ground and the staff of the subcontractors for standing by in these exceptional circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u39	Mr Minister, in my turn I would like to thank the numerous staff of SNCB and Infrabel. There is little resistance to the rough force of nature. We can only get our hands together in order to find a quick solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for a very comprehensive answer. I would also like to thank all those who have done very hard work in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u41	"The Covid-19 crisis has put a large proportion of Belgian employees on telework for more than a year. Telework has now found its place in our way of working and is implanted for a few days a week. Although this is positive in terms of ecology, some people find it penalised. This is the case for part-time teleworking commuters who now have to pay the cost of parking at SNCB more than they do when they work 100% on a face-to-face basis. Working part-time, commuters are no longer entitled to an annual car park subscription or even a subscription adapted to their train subscription. SNCB relies on the argument to ensure a place for subscribers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u42	- What has been the evolution of parking saturation rates in recent months at the main stations in the country?"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u43	Mr Minister, year after year more and more station parkings are being paid for, even though they sometimes hear a different voice. For example, navetteurs.be advocated free parking for regular travellers in August, including the working commuter. Of course, SNCB is autonomous when it comes to its parking policy and its charging. NMBS previously stated that the use of the station parkings would not be reduced by making it payable. I would be surprised, however, because when we ask questions about this here in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, it is traditionally the answer that SNCB does not disclose data on the capacity utilisation of its parking sites, as it would be commercially sensitive. Since statements were made in the press, I would have liked to have been made clear by you. If SNCB can make statements to journalists about this, you can certainly do so as a minister to Parliament. Secondly, what do you actually think of the position of navetteurs.be? Do you agree that frequent commuters should be able to enjoy a more affordable rate? Will you include that suggestion in the discussions on the upcoming management contract? Following on, I have a question regarding the advice of the Central Council for Business and the National Labour Council on the upcoming management contract. It focuses on many themes, including in particular the station parkings. They also argue that a solution must nevertheless be found towards more advantageous rates for commuting full-time and part-time workers. I had a number of numerical questions about that. How much is the average parking fee? Is a maximum and a minimum rate applied? How many parking spaces does SNCB have in total? Will you indeed, as several partners ask, change the rates of the B-Parkings? Are you in favour of a half-time parking ticket according to daily practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u44	Mr Minister, SNCB's parking policy has been mentioned on several occasions. A good parking lot is worth gold, the SNCB has understood that correctly. The SNCB parkings are often located in the heart of the city given the historic location of our train stations. That makes the SNCB parkings interesting for those who want to make money out of it. In the meantime, we have already noticed that money is being paid out. I tabled a written question on this matter a while ago. The numbers don't lie. In 2015, SNCB parkings raised the train company 8.5 million euros. This amount increased year after year to as much as 15 million in 2019, an increase of 75% over five years. That's huge. However, I did not receive an answer to my written question on the income per SNCB parking. However, the distribution of total income is also interesting. A survey of the FPS Mobility shows that 50% of those using the Audi A4 daily see the lack of affordable parking spaces as a threshold to take the train. That's not negative. If we want to attract as many commuters as possible, high parking rates are not a good thing. For the PVDA, to seduce as many commuters as possible to take the train, the parkings must be free. The paying SNCB parkings have another perverse effect, namely that they are often abandoned during weekends and leave periods, while they could be used as well as public parking or as an activity area for the benefit of society. Why does SNCB not provide an answer to the annual revenues per car park? Can we still get it in order to have a better picture of the problem? What do you think of SNCB's pricing policy? Is the significant increase in parking revenues explained by the increased number of passengers or are there other reasons? What is the future vision of the NBMS on the paying car and bicycle parking? Does SNCB have a financial objective with paying parking? When will it be enough? How many paying parkings operated by SNCB, have they been added since 2015? Which SNCB parkings will be paid this year and in 2022?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u45	Minister, the subject has already been discussed on a regular basis in our committee, as more and more travellers are told that parking at stations will be paid in the future. In a city centre with a large station and a strong supply of buses and trams, paying parkings are a logical choice, but they are much less evident in smaller cities or municipalities where there is simply no connection with bus or tram. In the latter case, we risk hunting more passengers back in the car for their entire journey, which can never be the intention. Minister, on what study does SNCB base itself on the roll-out of parking policy? Which parkings were and will be made this and next year paying? Will you also put the issue of paying parkings on the table in the negotiation of the new management agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u46	Mr Minister, first of all I would like to join my colleagues Mr Vindevoghel and Mr Roggeman when they complain how difficult it is to obtain figures from SNCB; Mr Van den Bergh even mentioned non-answers. I wonder why SNCB is refusing precise figures on the use of its parking facilities. In what sense is the information on the number of cars in a car park and the resulting income competitively important and secret information? On the substance, do you consider that the policy applied by SNCB to its parking facilities improves the attractiveness of public transport? What vision or approach will you pursue with regard to the use of SNCB parkings in the preparation of a new management agreement with SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u47	I have been able to talk on several occasions about parking policy at SNCB, including at the meeting of the Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions on 13 July. The health crisis has led us all to rethink our patterns of displacement. The covid accelerated the trend towards telework that had begun in many companies and is now growing more than ever. Our citizens are asking for more flexibility in their mobility. This can be seen, for example, in the Mobility budget, which is growing in many companies, even if they could be even more numerous. In order for mobility to be a freedom, SNCB must be the backbone of our mobility of tomorrow. It is in this sense that we are developing, with SNCB, the Flex-abo formula, the flexible home-to-work subscription for workers travelling two or three days a week to their workplace and working at home for the rest of the time, a positive development that I am just as pleased with as much as this new product that will be available to the public in the coming months. In terms of parking, SNCB already offers several flexible products depending on the actual use of parking spaces. Each car park product is linked to a train product: a commuter with a train subscription can buy a car park subscription that is loaded on his MOBIB card. A regular occasional user can buy a ten-access card and very occasional customers can take a ticket at the entrance to the car park, as is done to access a classic car park. It should be remembered that the cost of parking the stations can be borne by the employer and are tax deductible. Many commuters are waiting for the evolution of health measures and the modalities of teleworking to decide how they will organise their journey to the station and work. We are already working with SNCB to develop new products that take account of new mobility habits. This is why a new product has just been launched on the SNCB application. This allows you to buy a one-day card via the SNCB app. SNCB is studying new combined products, train plus parking, to better meet the changing needs of commuters. Within a year, new products will complete the range. SNCB notes an increase in the capacity utilisation of its parking facilities since September. As I have already said, parking policy is in a competitive environment. It is therefore normal that SNCB does not want to make precise data public per parking lot. Moreover, as Minister for Mobility, I do not decide which parking is or is not paying. This choice falls within the autonomy of SNCB under the current management contract. By the way, the revenues from paying car parks also serve to finance the development of bicycle parking. I have asked SNCB to ensure that its new parking facilities can easily be converted for another use in the future. Its height is important, for example. There are currently more than one hundred parkings and thirty station bike parking facilities equipped with access control. Each year, a dozen bicycle sheds and car parks are equipped with access control. The municipal authorities are informed about 12 months in advance to coordinate the mobility plan related to the installation of the access control. All information about parking at the station is available on the SNCB website. If we want to get more people out of the car and on the train, it is important to make the first mile and the last mile attractive. In addition to a cycling-train strategy, therefore, I am now also working with SNCB on a strategic vision 2021-2032 for greater intermodality, so that a passenger can move more easily from the train to other means of transport. I am convinced that the combination of sustainable journeys, i.e. on foot, by bike, by bus or by train, is the very best way to make mobility a real freedom. Parking facilities for bicycles and cars are part of the intermodal strategy. It will not surprise you that I prefer the use of the bike and in particular the combination of bike and train. That is why, together with SNCB, we have developed a cycle-plus train strategy, which provides for an increase of 50% in the number of bicycle parking spaces at the stations. The promotion of cycling in daily life is also the goal of the new federal bicycle plan BE CYCLIST. The challenge is to create a range of alternatives for the car, such as the bicycle and the train. In urban areas, a free car parking policy can have a negative impact on mobility. If you allow me to compare, in the city, free parking works a bit like a car vacuum with all the negative impacts we know about bottling and air quality. Nevertheless, I myself live in a rural municipality, and I realize that the car is still essential for some people, for example to get to the railway station. I think we need to be able to adapt SNCB's parking policy, for bicycles or cars, to the reality of the population. Cycling wherever possible. Public transport too. And the car only where it's needed. Let me conclude by reminding you that the current management contract was negotiated in 2008, that it has expired since 2012, and that the future management contract of SNCB, which will become a public service contract, is under negotiation, you know. In this future public service contract, the station categories will be defined on the basis of objective criteria. As you read in the specifications published in April 2021, the future public service contract will determine, among other things, the standards of equipment, the forms of physical presence or the range of services offered to travellers. There will also be requirements in terms of accessibility and intermodality. In all these areas, I asked my team to agree on ambitious goals with SNCB. The same applies to parking facilities, both for bicycles and for cars.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u48	Minister, you're back in time. You see that's quite possible!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will of course confine myself to the subject of my question, which was more specific. As far as subscription formulas are concerned, you did well to remind that there are formulas on a weekly or daily basis, but they are generally less interesting than the annual car park subscription formulas. I am pleased to hear that SNCB is working and reflecting on the adoption of new products to integrate this issue, including the increase in telework and the fact that stations are not necessarily frequented every day. Parking has a cost, but this cost must also be able to finance innovation. Like the Flex-abo, I think that we also need a tariff policy adapted to the new realities that have been generated by the health crisis. I will also pay attention to the follow-up on this theme.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I disagree with some of your statements. As far as data confidentiality is concerned, you state that parking policy operates in a competitive environment. That's not true. In most station environments there is only one large parking space. It is often owned by SNCB, which has a de facto monopoly in the immediate vicinity. If there was competition, I could still understand that people do not want to give an insight into the tariff setting. Logically, therefore, from your answer, this is possible for the locations where SNCB is not exposed to competition in the immediate vicinity. In another question, I'd like to go on with that. Secondly, you say that we should make the burden mile more attractive to get people on the train. I fully agree with that, but the reality is that SNCB is countering this evolution by making parkings more expensive. I support the ambition to get people on the bike and to better unlock traffic modes, but the reality is that a lot of commuters cannot or cannot always use the bike and that the necessary reception infrastructure must also be available for the car, now and in the future. Moreover, with a view to an integrated mobility policy, it seems logical to me that there is consultation with road managers, with local authorities, and that sometimes goes wrong. SNCB has the habit of even introducing diametrically against the ambitions or policy intentions of local authorities in paying parking. But from a previous debate, I remembered that it is possible for a city council to expropriate railway property. Maybe we should go deeper into that thought trail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u51	Minister, you have not actually answered most of the questions. You are using the aspect of the competitive environment to not respond to many comments. I disagree. Last week I received an e-mail from a company that rents car parks and says that there is a lot of money to be made. That's the reverse world, I guess. Mr Minister, it is a good thing that more people are travelling by bicycle, but workers in shifts cannot use public transport and others cannot take a bicycle at all, but have to drive to the station by car. There's supposed to be more people on the train. Even the FPS Mobility agrees that commuters do not take the train because of the expensive parking spaces. In Liège, for example, it is very expensive compared to a number of other cities. Together with navetteurs.be we think that the parkings should be cheaper and more accessible to encourage as many commuters as possible to take a train.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You said yourself that you have already answered similar questions in committee. The fact that the theme comes back to the committee and to the regional newspapers certainly means that SNCB's parking policy is not so good, not with the traveller, who feels an extra threshold, and not with the municipal authorities, who have to switch to catch wild parking in the surrounding streets. You also said that intermodality would be the ideal scenario. I want to look with you for intermodality with buses, trams and bikes. It is quite clear that you are also using the levers you have in your hands. I also agree with you that there is a difference between an urban context and rural areas. Like you, I also live in rural areas, where it is more difficult to make full use of intermodality. I hear you want to realize that ideal scenario of intermodality. That's a big difference from the past. I also hear that you want to put this intermodality strategy on the table in the discussions of the management contract. I'm glad to hear that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. In particular, I agree with what Mr Roggeman said. You are talking about a competitive situation, so that figures remain confidential. In a lot of places, I just don't see that. As an example, I mention the station parking in my own city, Hasselt. There is no competition there for the large SNCB car park. So I do not entirely agree with your argument. You refer to your strategic vision 2032. In presenting your policy plan, I have already expressed my appreciation for the fact that you have a vision, because it has been lacking for years, even though I do not entirely agree with it. The ideal scenario, according to your vision, is multimodality where the traveler uses the bike instead of the car. In that sense, I can still understand your agreement that car parking is being paid for, because this is how commuters are driven to the bike. However, once again I am looking at the Hasselt transport region, the reality is that savings are being made everywhere, the provision of public transport is shrinking and the number of stops is decreasing. This makes it increasingly difficult for passengers to reach the station by public transport. Those who alternatively have to take the car to reach the station and then have to pay a lot to park that car at the station, may choose to drive the car directly to their destination. So we didn't promote public transport. I therefore do not share your opinion in this respect. I am particularly looking forward to the content of the management agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u54	Minister, the exact question is "Eating and drinking on trains". Of course, this is not a three service or a wine tasting, but simply to be able, on long journeys, to quench or last. I am myself a long commuter – 1:20 a.m. from station to station – but I am also thinking of colleagues from Campine or Luxembourg. It is difficult to know what is allowed and what is not. We have had this debate in the past. You stated that the general rule was the wearing of the mask at all times, and that there was tolerance with respect to drinking and/or eating. However, as a commuter, I can confirm to you that the reminder messages about wearing the mask do not facilitate a good understanding of the spirit behind the measures taken. In view of the fact that the health situation, particularly compared to last year, has improved, I wanted to ask you again about this. Eating and drinking on the train is not luxury, it is a matter of comfort for travellers, and not just during heat. Where exactly are we today? What has been done or will be done to improve communication to travellers who would like to be able to quench or stay on a journey?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u55	Minister, I must admit that this afternoon, when I took the train from Ghent to Brussels, I ate a sandwich with parma ham and mozzarella. It was a really good sandwich. I was not aware of whether or not that is allowed, but I must say that I also saw other commuters on the otherwise not busy train. There weren't many people on the train, it was during the off-peak hours. I also notice a certain fatigue in my mouth on public transport. In the hospitality and shops we are allowed to enter without a mouth mask. One feels that the question is beginning to arise as to why it is still necessary to wear one on public transport, which is not super busy at every hour of the day either. Has targeted research been carried out on corona contamination on public transport and on the risk of contamination? Are there more recent insights about this than those we have already received in this committee? What about ventilation on the train? Is air quality measured? What happens if a certain risk threshold is exceeded? Do you know how that is handled abroad? If it can be guaranteed that the ventilation on the train is working properly, can the oral mask requirement be abolished? Is that a valiant slope? If so, at what time? Are there any other corona measures still in place on the train which have not yet been mentioned in the debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u56	Mr President, perhaps I can answer Mr Vandenbroucke's question myself. On the SNCB website, the following is still clear: "On board the trains and in the stations you are obliged to wear a mouth mask. If this is necessary for medical reasons, you may briefly remove your mouth mask to drink. We do ask you to put your mouth mask back immediately." So, unfortunately, you were trespassing. There's no mention of mozzarella sandwiches in the rules. Minister, the health situation is moving in the right direction. I, too, notice a certain tiredness in my mouth. I think that the traveller is already sufficiently aware of the situation and I would like to hear your position on maintaining the ban on food and drink on the train, but also on the stations and on the platforms. The same applies to the platforms in the open air. Is that really necessary? There we could have a more flexible regime, as in the rest of society. Finally, how many fines were already paid for violating the ban on food and drink in the station environment and on the train?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u57	Minister, mouth mask fatigue has already been mentioned, but there are also more and more conflicts. For example, the police were called from our zone to the station of Herentals because a group of 80 young people on the train caused nuisance. They refused to put on their mouth mask in front of the conductor. Maintaining the duty of masking is becoming increasingly difficult. Why can we party together with thousands without a mouth mask, but should we set it up on the train, which is properly ventilated and disinfected anyway? Those questions come back regularly. In the meantime, how many fines were handed out to travellers who refused to wear a mouth mask? Are we seeing a rising trend since the announcement of the mouth mask softeners? How can we continue to motivate rail passengers to wear a mouth mask? What measures does SNCB take to provide additional protection for conductors in these situations? How do you see the step towards easing the duty of mouth masks on the train? What conditions must be met? When can the train traveller travel normally again, so that he can eat his sandwich with parma ham and mozzarella quietly? Finally, are trains still disinfected on a regular basis? Are the mobile decontamination teams still working? Is it known until when they will continue to work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an exciting and important question, since it concerns our daily lives as commuters. No doubt, many people are tired of wearing the mask but it will be, I think, still necessary for a little while. I also note that, even in this Parliament, it is still regularly worn. It seems wise to me not to be pleasant. As the backbone of public transport in Belgium, SNCB has always taken its social role to heart since the start of the corona crisis. Her employees have always given the best of themselves in extremely difficult circumstances. The Consultation Committee decided at its last meeting, on the basis of opinions from epidemiological experts who continuously monitor the situation, to relax the current health measures concerning the wearing of the mouth mask. The wearing of the mouth mask remains mandatory only in indoor areas of public transport, stations and airports. Mouth masks remain mandatory in the trains and in the stations, but are not mandatory on open air platforms. In these cases, it is a federally compulsory pedestal. SNCB naturally applies these precautionary measures loyally and I thank her staff once again for that. Mr Parent, I spoke of tolerance in a previous exchange last year. The rule was not clearly set out in the regulations as to the possibility of feeding on a train, and therefore to remove its mask. The ministerial decree of 28 October 2020 called "Corona" is now very clear in its recitals. The mask or any other fabric alternative can be removed occasionally to eat and drink. This rule also applies on board trains for any type of person. This will reassure parents with children or people, such as Mr Arens or Mrs Buyst, who make long journeys by train to join us in Brussels. In addition, I asked SNCB to check whether the messages given to the public, by loudspeakers or via websites, were in compliance with the regulations, both on trains and via other communication tools. If this is not the case, an adaptation will be made. The new rule that allows you not to wear the mask on outdoor docks has been valid since October 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u59	The air is completely refreshed every ten minutes in all SNCB trains, as recommended by the High Health Council. Air treatment systems shall be maintained regularly and the filter elements replaced. Trains are regularly thoroughly cleaned, avoiding, among other things, dust accumulation in the air distribution system. In addition, all procedures for the daily cleaning of trains are strictly followed. The trains are cleaned daily, paying particular attention to the surfaces with which the passengers come into contact, such as the tables, the garbage bins, the toilets and the door handles. SNCB has not been able to provide me with figures on the humidity on board its trains. This exceptional period has taught us to better understand the vital role of public transport in ensuring the movements that are essential for the functioning of the country. The basic public service mission of SNCB was never so much in the spotlight. As for society, there will also be an era for SNCB before and after corona, but the strengths of our multimodal transport model will remain the same. Sustainability and climate will be more important than ever for citizens. Under all circumstances, people will always have the need to move. SNCB will give them the opportunity to do so in the safest and most comfortable way. SNCB therefore believes that public transport will become more attractive after the crisis. Together we will convince the traveller to take the train again. The number of train passengers was at the highest level in early September since the start of the corona crisis. We had an average of 78% of passengers before the crisis in mid-September. Mr Roggeman, Mrs Verhaert, SNCB is only keeping figures on the number of CVs it imposes for failing to comply with the instructions of the Ministerial Decision on the COOVID-19 measures in public transport. Figures relating to the number of CVs that were made only because of food on board trains are therefore not available. Moreover, the number of CVs imposed by Securail in this context has fallen over the last six months to an average of less than ten per day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u60	Minister, thank you. This is a clear answer which will, I think, relieve the commuters, but also Mr Vandenbroucke, who was therefore not in a situation of illegality. Blague aside, as far as communication is concerned, I do think that is a sensitive point. Beyond the debate, the different interpretation that the traveller and accompanying staff may have can generate conflict situations. It is indeed very important to have clear communication for all, both with staff and with passengers, to limit tensions on trains; beyond the fact that obviously, as you have said, the possibility is given to drink or eat on the train, which is good news, and a good development.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u61	Minister, I agree with Mr Parent's comments. I too believe that the answer is a good balance between the concern for sanitary safety and common sense, which ensures that the train remains a more attractive alternative to the car.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u64	Minister, the same applies to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u65	"I remember that Infrabel is very worried about his budgetary situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u66	If so, what amount?"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u67	Mr Minister, the financial situation of Infrabel is actually dramatic, in the sense that Infrabel will soon be unable to carry out its core tasks, namely the maintenance of the railway infrastructure on our Belgian soil, under unchanged policies. There are already stories about unsafe conditions on our railways. Accidents and near-accidents would be covered up before. That situation needs to alert all of us. It is important that we go into this in greater depth today. We have had the corona crisis and also a flood crisis. We fear that Infrabel can't make everything strong. However, the malaise has been around for much longer. The cause is decades of structural savings at Infrabel. Workers tell us that they are very concerned about their employment, their safety and the safety of travellers. They're worried about the future of the railroad. We cannot blame them in that. Allow me to give you some figures. In the workforce, the number of full-time equivalents on Infrabel's wage role fell from 12.045 to 10,064, a decrease of as much as 16% between 2015 and 2019. Infrabel's staff savings are further enhanced by savings from SNCB, where over 3,000 full-time jobs disappeared during the same period, around 15%; for in absolute figures, SNCB went from 20,628 full-time equivalents in 2014 to 17.539 in 2019. In a few years' time, 5,070 jobs have disappeared in a sector that needs to achieve our modal shift, help tackle the fight against climate change and reduce congestion. This means that every month there are about a hundred employees less on the railways. These figures contrast sharply with the fine words of this vivaldiploeg and in particular with your policy statement. In addition to the personnel figure, there are also the blood red financial figures. Between 2005 and 2019, Infrabel's government donation decreased by as much as 2%. Infrabel's exploitation rate decreased by as much as 85% between 2005 and 2021. Infrabel needs this exploitation to maintain the tracks that are already there so that they remain available for both passengers and freight. The operational funding for Infrabel in 2005 amounted to almost EUR 350 million per year and today we are threatening to fall below EUR 50 million. At the October 2020 Ministerial Council, it was decided to save EUR 6 million again in the operational funding in 2021. In addition to this operation, the investment dotation is available. That too has fallen sharply. Over the past 15 years, it has fallen by as much as 18%, from EUR 1 billion per year to EUR 800 million per year. This has a particular impact on the capacity of the rail network. Maintenance that is too long is compromising the use of some traces. Maybe you're trying to use alternative income from Infrabel. One could collect even higher lane fees, but from whom? This is mainly the case of SNCB, another public undertaking which has no surplus funds. Otherwise, Infrabel will have to charge higher rates to private freighters such as Lineas who are again subsidised by the cabinet with tax money. There too, it would only be a transfer of taxpayers' money. Infrabel can also charge charges on night trains that could hit our country. If Infrabel itself needs to generate more revenue, which this saving policy requires them to do, it will automatically be a cardigan pocket operation. In previous years, Infrabel has always saved on staff and has invested less. Today we are clearly at a turning point. That's what Infrabel says. It's bend or crack for the rail sector. In addition to the many red numbers, we also have some green numbers. For example, rail supply increased by a small 5% between 2014 and 2019, out of the corona period. We see that SNCB even carried 253 million passengers in 2019. That was a serious rise. This gives a huge increase in productivity for staff who have to do extra overtime and get fewer recovery days. There are also distributed services, transfers and more and more contractual recruitments. But just because of that increase in the number of travelers, one would expect to invest in additional staff at Infrabel. Infrabel is responsible for maintenance, repairs, accessible stations, electrification and investment in new rail links. But none of that happens, as if Infrabel is a lemon one can continue to squeeze out. We would like to hear you say it, just like yesterday in Schaerbeek: 'Every euro invested in the railways will raise three euros'. But if you leave with 0 euros, of course you also get 0 euros. As a result of the savings imposed by the federal government, Infrabel threatens to close five railway lines. Specifically, the Charleroi-Mariembourg, Ath-Gislenghien, Heike-Sint-Niklaas, Dendermonde-Lokeren and line 150 Charmeuse announcements of temporary delays are also on the agenda. 302 freight trains per day and no less than 1,764 passenger trains will be affected. This information was given to the staff during a presentation by the CEO of Infrabel, Benoît Gilson. The manager of the railway network is also considering the gradual decommissioning of tracks and rail links Blankenberge, Essen, Genk goods, Voroux, Montzen, Mariembourg and Saint-Ghislain. The marshalling station in the port of Antwerp will only be partially renewed and the port of Liège can also be affected. None of these are good prospects. That is why I have a number of questions for you, Minister. How do you respond to Infrabel's doom messages? Weren't you going to invest extra in our train network? Weren't you going to double freight transport by 2030? Is there an increased risk for rail passengers today of accidents caused by inadequate maintenance? Is there already an increased risk of delays for rail passengers due to lack of maintenance? Can Infrabel close one-sided lines if they are no longer safe? Is it true that Infrabel's operating budget will fall again by EUR 94 million during your term of office? Infrabel's not only short of money, he's also short of hands. There are 400 employees too short to carry out all the tasks that need to be carried out effectively. How are you going to correct this situation? Does Infrabel have the resources to attract 400 additional staff? Can you guarantee that no lines will be closed? Can you guarantee that Infrabel will have sufficient financial resources to exploit our train network? Are you going to destroy the savings at Infrabel by additional investments?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u68	Mr Minister, in mid-September I choked on my coffee when I read on a French news site that Mr Gilson, the CEO, announced that five lines would be closed: three lines in Wallonia and two lines in Flanders. Especially those lines in Flanders scared me. It concerns line 54 from Heike to Sint-Niklaas and line 57 from Dendermonde to Lokeren. Not just me as a local mandater in Dendermonde scared the shit out of me. However, we have often consulted with Infrabel. There was never any mention of that. Of course, the news also struck as a bomb among the many thousands of train passengers who use these lines in their daily movements. No one was aware of this. The proposal to close the lines is not really easy either. Public transport should be encouraged. Some even want to make everything free. It seems as if we want to do the opposite here, because many used lines are being abolished. Understand who can understand. Just like the travelers, I'm worried sick. Hence my questions, Minister. How are these savings compatible with the government's ambitions? The government agreement states that investment will focus on the renewal and maintenance of rail infrastructure and that the capacity of passenger transport will be increased. How's this rhyme? Are you aware of the plans to close lines 54 and 57? How concrete are these plans? What is your opinion on this? Will you take measures to prevent this closure? Which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u69	Minister, ladies and gentlemen have already outlined the context. Infrabel would intend to close a number of railway lines. These are railway lines 132, 134, 287, 54 and 57. Striking was the clarification of the railway lines themselves, because especially in Flanders it is about large and medium-sized cities, in the middle of the Flemish Ruit, which receive thousands of commuters daily. In addition, lines 54 and 57 are the only link between the Waasland and Brussels. Around 300,000 people live in the Waasland. The fact that people want to cut it is totally illogical. It is also striking that these statements were leaked during the presentation of Rail Roadmap 2030, where you were present and so was Mr Gilson. Everyone expressed great support for the plan before us, which stated that no railway lines would close. In terms of contradiction on the same day, that can count! Infrabel referred in his ex post motivation to the lower profitability of the lines in question. I doubt that that applies to those railway lines between Mechelen and Sint-Niklaas or Dendermonde and Lokeren. Infrabel does seem to have figures on the profitability of the railway lines. That is worth mentioning, as I have been trying to clarify this in several written questions for a year and a half, for the time being without success. Every question I ask about this comes up against the same answer, namely that Infrabel does not have such data. Turns out it's not. Which railway lines does Infrabel want to close now? Is it true that those scenarios are on the table? Can you confirm that? How did this selection come about? In the case of the Walloon railway lines, it concerns less used railway lines in one section. In what way does Infrabel compare the profitability of railway lines? Do you confirm your earlier statements, namely that no railway lines will close until 2024? If that is the case, how do you explain the public disagreement with Mr Gilson? So you and the CEO of Infrabel are communicating differently, even flatly opposite. Are such plans not discussed between your cabinet and the CEO? How is such a thing possible? Does Infrabel use or misuse the possibility of closing railway lines as a means of exerting pressure to obtain additional public resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u70	Mr President, Minister, my questions on freight rail transport will no longer be able to be addressed today. The question that arises in this topical debate is the one about the closure of the lines Sint-Niklaas-Mechelen and Dendermonde-Lokeren, which is very remarkable. As Mr Roggeman pointed out, this is in line with my question on freight transport and savings, especially in the port of Antwerp.......................................................................................................................................................................................... Just on Monday, when everyone was getting in the way of making promises about rail infrastructure, Mr Gilson told us that there was a need to cut back. Which railway lines does Infrabel want to close effectively? On what basis did this selection take place? What profits would these closures yield for Infrabel? When will these lines be effectively closed down? Is there any investment shift in the context of the imminent cessation of certain lines? If so, what shifts? From which region to which region? Or from passenger transport to freight transport? Or what other shift?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u71	Minister, the federal government would have asked Infrabel to achieve significant savings by 2024. Work that has to or is being carried out to repair the damage caused by the floods to the railway infrastructure was not planned and has snacked a significant part of the company's resources, as was also not foreseen the free transport – as in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg – that a government partner announced, if I understood correctly. According to some sources, without refinancing, much of the network would be subject to speed reductions and some lines could be closed due to outdated conditions, both in Wallonia and Flanders. Minister, do you confirm this information? Are lines in danger again? Are you in consultation with Infrabel about this? Will the work and the resources required for it lead to the ambitious rail projects that you outlined in your policy note? Do you believe that Infrabel has sufficient human and material resources to meet the challenges that these projects pose to it? What amounts are provided for in Infrabel's investment plans? Can you break down these amounts into operating budgets or investment budgets? Are you planning an increase in federal staffing to compensate for the resources invested in the disaster and to implement other promises that have just been made? If so, what are the amounts?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u72	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u73	Mr Minister, many colleagues from East Flanders, among others, have outlined how surprising the communication about the imminent closure of railway lines 54 Mechelen-Sint-Niklaas and 57 Dendermonde-Lokeren was. A lot of commuters using those lines are worried. Action has already been taken in the municipalities concerned. Can you give us an explanation on the news? Can you assure us that you will do what is necessary to prevent the closure of these lines?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u74	Mr President, I am surprised that you did not question me about the fate of the Charleroi-Couvin line, which will obviously remain open like all the others.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u75	I have no fears, that is why I did not ask the question. I am not one of those who regularly say that this line will be closed when it has just been completely redone. We wouldn't commit such a gabegie, so I don't even think about it, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u76	Mr. President, you're answering for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u77	You asked me the question! So I'm answering it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u78	More seriously, thank you for asking me about such an important issue as the financing of Belgian rail. He's the one who's been taking care of me for a little over a year. In answer to your questions, I would like to state very clearly, if it is necessary, because you all already know that: there will be no closure of railway lines under this Parliament, only on the contrary. I intend to further strengthen the network and the service, to bequeath to the person who will succeed me as minister a network in better condition than the one I inherited. My intention is to ensure that there is no closure by 2024, or after. We need an efficient rail network to transport more people and goods in order to meet the climate, mobility and economic challenges we face. The federal government agreement expressly states that we will invest in rail transport, with the aim of making rail the backbone of mobility in Belgium. In particular, the coalition agreement provides for special additional resources to enable SNCB and Infrabel to invest in a sustainable modal shift. This ambition is reflected in the objective of doubling the volume of rail freight by 2030. Our policy can therefore only be to strengthen the Belgian rail network and support its connection to sites with economic potential. In concrete terms, it means drawing up a multi-annual investment plan for the next ten years. The multiannual investment plan 2023-2032 will also be linked to a performance contract of equal duration, currently under negotiation between Infrabel and my cabinet. The investment plan 2022-2026, as presented to certain economic organisations, is an exercise by Infrabel and serves as a working basis for negotiations with the federal government. It wasn't politically discussed or ratified. In 2018, Infrabel commissioned an audit of the state of its network against the very heavy OPEX savings imposed by previous governments. The experts' conclusions already mentioned, at the time, that the normal life cycle of part of Infrabel's production tool was exceeded. The experts stressed that, with a rigorous maintenance policy, its assets could still function until the end of the decade. That is why much of my energy as a minister is devoted to finding new ways to benefit from investment in infrastructure to reverse this trend. The investments I have already made, with the agreement of the Government and the support of the European Commission, since I took office, have led to work on strengthening rail in all corners of Belgium. As I speak to you, work is under way between Tournai and Mouscron, on the line between Brussels and Nivelles – to finish the work – or between Brussels and Ottignies, not to mention the work on rehabilitation of the road following the floods. As a reminder, with the Boost Plan, it was first 100 million euros that were quickly put on the table, which made it possible to launch the work. The total amount decided at this stage is €365 million spent a little on SNCB with the strengthening of the accessibility of the stations, much in Infrabel to meet our objectives in terms of freight transport, strengthening the network. But this is obviously not enough yet. Every day, I fight to find additional means for rail by starting with the current budget conclave and soliciting all the instruments made available by the European Union in this context. Be assured that I will continue to seek and find ways to make our rail network more robust and to promote rail transportation of goods and people both nationally and internationally. A euro invested in rail directly and indirectly brings three euros to the economy. The train is one of the major instruments to meet our climate objectives. I work on these projects in close connection with the managers of the two companies, SNCB and Infrabel. I have no doubt that we will have the opportunity to continue to discuss it together. I repeat, there will be no rail line closure by 2024. On the contrary, I hope to bequeath a more robust network than I inherited from my successors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u79	Minister, thank you for your answers. I took note that there would be no rail line closures under this legislature. It is an important commitment and I count on your conviction to find new ways to invest and to deliver on the promises that are made directly or indirectly. I also rely heavily on the 2020-2032 investment plan. You mentioned some lines in the country, but you did not mention the lines in the province of Luxembourg. Does that mean that Luxembourg is completely forgotten? I talked about the free public transport requested by a government partner. Did that bother you? Mr. Chair, I am counting on the minister's conviction and I am not going to table a motion of mistrust today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u80	Mr President, I have probably not been precise enough for Mr Arens. When I say that there will be no closure of the line in the country, it also applies to the province of Luxembourg! I would add that, as you know, the issue of speeding up work on the Brussels-Luxembourg line is one of my priorities in discussions with the European Commission to obtain additional funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u81	Mr Arens, I take note of the fact that there is no motion at the end of your inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u82	Minister, I hear a lot of positive words. That is good, but we have to wait and see what happens in practice. What budgets will be announced soon? We will analyse them, and on that basis we can conclude whether or not the funds are sufficient. At the moment, the trade unions are very concerned about this. After all, to expand the activities, extra hands are needed. I will not be reassured until we see that additional resources are available to meet these ambitions. Minister, you will undoubtedly find allies in your vivaldi government to strengthen SNCB, as they attach great importance to the climate. So you must work with the government to ensure that ambitious investments are made in our railways and that sufficient resources and staff are made available to achieve enlargement. We fully support you for this. However, I will not withdraw my motion, because we continue to insist on better funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u83	You reassured us, Minister, that the railway line will not be closed down. But we do not want to see that happen in the next legislature, and hopefully we will not have to come back to the discussion. They remain important lines which connect medium-sized cities and are used daily by thousands of commuters. They must be preserved. You have reassured me and perhaps many travellers, Minister, but allow me to denounce this unseen way of working. It is very sad that an Infrabel document is being leaked in order to put pressure on it to get more financial resources. This creates concern for the public and discourages rail passengers. The confidence of local directors in Infrabel has also been dented. This method cannot be repeated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u84	Mr Roggeman, are you reassured?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u85	Yes and no, Mr President. Minister, I am reassured and pleased by your firm statement that no railway lines will be closed during this legislative period. In substance, I think that the whole problem exposes deeper difficulties. Infrabel argues that certain railway lines are not profitable, which calls into question the future of these lines. As a Member of Parliament, I want the profitability to be demonstrated by figures. If we put that question to Infrabel through you, the answer is that those figures are not available or cannot be given. What the hell are these people doing? How is it possible that a public body...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u86	But at last! [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u87	Mr Roggeman has the floor for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u88	Minister, how do you explain that Infrabel cannot provide figures on the number of lanes sold? That is, however, his core task.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u89	(...) But at last!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u90	Minister, you answer our questions that Infrabel does not have those figures. Isn't it impossible that Infrabel doesn't have figures on the profitability by railroad?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u91	(...) does the port of Antwerp want a little more freight trains?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u92	Minister, I do not know whether we understand each other correctly. Do you have objective data on the profitability by rail? I sincerely hope that you will have it as a policymaker. We as Members of Parliament are not getting them. If Infrabel says that certain lines are not profitable, I want to believe that, but please show me the figures. We will then get the answer that they do not exist. I don't understand how that's possible. Infrabel sells lanes. How difficult can it be to get the figures of the number of lanes sold per railway line? That's what the company does, that's why that company exists. So there are two options. Either that is not true and does Infrabel have that information and then it creates a major political problem for you, Minister, because you make statements in Parliament on the basis of false information. Either it is true and Infrabel does not have any figures, but that is at least as big a problem. If Infrabel has no idea of its own cost structure, of its own company and has no idea of the execution of its core tasks, what are those directors doing there? You announce a new investment plan for infrastructure for the period 2022 to 2026. I am curious about that, especially about its foundation. I would like this plan to have an objective basis and to start with the profitability of the railways. Infrabel says that this cannot be done, but I wonder what decisions on additional investment support. I hope that is not wet fingering, but at least today there is a major problem with reporting to Parliament. I hope that rail infrastructure management in our country is not a wet finger; today there is no signal that my hopes are not false.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u93	Thank you, Minister, for repeating the promises, but I can only say that you are flagrantly contradicting Mr Gilson, the Infrabel top man and the successor of his colourful colleague, Mr Lallemand. In the summer recess of 2019, Mr. Lallemand also made similar threats. So the summer recess is apparently the moment when Infrabel has to extract blackmail drugs. It also reminds me of your statements on the point of contact, where you were also fooled by the SNCB summit. I hope the situation does not repeat itself. In the press, you said that no lines will be closed in this legislature. That promise was kind of skinny. After all, we're already at the end of 2021. I heard you say today that the lines will not be closed even after 2024. The Flemish Interest therefore expects you to keep your word and guarantees that during your policy period there will be no decision to close the lines Sint-Niklaas-Mechelen and Dendermonde-Lokeren, located in the heart of the so-called Flemish Ruit, an area with a major mobility problem. We're counting on your assurances. We're counting on you to keep your word.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u94	Minister, we all share the same ambition for the railways. We want the railways to be the backbone of the mobility policy of the future. But let's face it. We have allowed rail traffic to muddle over the last few years and legislative hours due to a lack of investment. Our entire rail network is now the victim of this. Yeah, we want more punctual trains. Yes, we want comfortable and accessible trains. But that's what we have to invest for. The federal government chooses to invest. The investments did not fall from the sky. We need to negotiate for this. That's what the federal government is doing right now. I have to say that I do not like the muscle that people think they should use in the discussions between Infrabel and the government. That's what it's about in the end. It seems as if they are making tough statements in order to be able to hold more meetings at the negotiating table. But let us be clear: we all want more investment in the railways so that they can be the backbone of our mobility in the future. That's what we have to go for together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u95	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have said the reassuring words that no railway lines will be closed under this government. This message will be warmly received in the region where railway lines 54 and 57 pass. I am also very curious to see how much resources will eventually be committed in the new investment plan and what the management agreement will look like. You have just rightly confirmed the government's vision for the umpteenth time: we are convinced that investment in the train is a lever on the one hand to make our mobility more sustainable and accessible to many people, and on the other hand it is necessary to transform it into a more climate-friendly society. You will indeed be dealt with on those investment plans. Frankly, I have every confidence in that, unlike Mr Roggeman. Mr Roggeman, I think you've come to complain rather early. I also find it a little misplaced in the light of the policy in the previous legislature, in which a government has not even managed to conclude a contract with our main public enterprises, namely SNCB and Infrabel, in which it simply stated what could be expected of these companies. That shows a total lack of vision. You cannot blame us, this government and Minister Gilkinet. There is, in black and white, a vision for it. This vision will indeed have to be realised with a new management agreement and on the basis of new investment plans. At the moment I do not wish to associate any process of intention, certainly not negative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u96	Minister, as the speeches of the various colleagues attest, your mission is very difficult. Indeed, you inherit a situation that cannot be more complicated as a result of the disinvestment in SNCB. From then on, our hopes in you are enormous. As a group, we will of course continue to support you in your vision of ensuring the sustainability of the rail sector and the quality of employment. Nevertheless, it is clear that the fears of railway workers and the union bench are still present. It is therefore up to you to reassure the bank of workers in the future. We have all heard your and your government's willingness not to close lines. In this regard, a distinction must be made between not closing lines and not condemning lines that might have been reborn. Thus, as a local example, Infrabel dismantled a switch that could have enabled the railway to be revived for a set of company zonings in my municipality, and this caused the total disappointment of the inhabitants of the entity. Is this your responsibility or that of your colleague at the Walloon level? I think maybe there's a little of both. However, what is clear for the PS group in the House is that the concept of rail accessibility of course applies to the offer. It is therefore necessary to make massive investments at SNCB level, but also in terms of tariff accessibility. A debate on the issue of free public transport has been relaunched by the media. I would like to take this reply to remind you of this claim, which is ours and which I am a Member of Parliament. More specifically, our President has today proposed a free public transport of SNCB for those under 25 and over 65 years of age. I think that this could be the subject of another specific debate on the subject, and I will ask a parliamentary question later on, but I wanted to remind you that this is an important part of the rail vision for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Hanus. In the word president, I hear the words party president and not committee chairman. I'll make it clear for everyone. I won't add a reply because I didn't ask a question even though I was a little bit challenged, but nicely. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u98	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Maria Vindevoghel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Josy Arens and Mrs Maria Vindevoghel and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - whereas the public undertaking Infrabel is dependent on the federal government; - considering that Infrabel's number of vtes decreased by 16% between 2015 and 2019; - considering that 100 jobs disappear every month in the Belgian rail sector; - whereas Infrabel's exploitation rate decreased by 85% between 2005 and 2021, - whereas Infrabel's investment rate fell by 18% over 15 years; - whereas the productivity of rail workers has increased considerably; - whereas, with the exception of the corona period, the number of rail passengers has increased to 253 million passengers per year; - whereas Infrabel threatens to close five train lines under unchanged policies; asks the government to bring Infrabel's operating budget, investment funding and staffing framework back to the 2005 level." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Maria Vindevoghel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mr Josy Arens and Mrs Maria Vindevoghel and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - Whereas the public undertaking Infrabel is dependent on the federal authorities; - Whereas the number of FTEs with Infrabel decreased by 16 % between 2015 and 2019; - Whereas 100 jobs disappear each month in the Belgian rail sector; - Whereas the operating allocation for Infrabel decreased by 85 % between 2005 and 2021; - Whereas the investment allocation for Infrabel has decreased by 18 % in 15 years; - Whereas the productivity of rail workers has increased sharply; Whereas, except during the pandemic, the number of rail users has increased by 253 million units per year; - Whereas Infrabel threatens to abolish five railway lines, with unchanged policy; asks the government to bring the operating budget, the investment allocation and the staff framework of Infrabel back to 2005." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Nicolas Parent. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Nicolas Parent. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. Debates of the European Parliament 55019246C Mrs Depraetere is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u99	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u100	Mr Roggeman, first of all I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the three entities depend on different bodies whose legal areas of competence differ substantially. I see no reason to question the current division of powers. Similarly, we remain in line with their organic texts and European railway law. As you are no doubt aware as a Member of Parliament, the Court of Auditors carries out financial control, checks on legality and regularity, and checks on the proper use of public funds. The powers of the Court of Auditors are broad and not limited to the railway sector alone. The Court of Auditors is a body that functions collaboratively with Parliament. Therefore, it does not depend on the executive. The railway regulator was established in implementation of the European Railway Directives. His main mission is to check that railway undertakings are treated in a fair and non-discriminatory manner. In that sense, the regulator must respect guarantees of independence and impartiality with regard to each public and private entity. The guardianship of the application of the disciplinary procedure is ensured by the Minister of Civil Service, Public Enterprises, Telecommunications and Post, Mrs De Sutter. Unlike the two previous bodies, the FPS Mobility and Transport mainly has an advisory role with regard to its custody minister in the area of railway strategy. The FPS assists me in political decision-making and provides the necessary support so that government policy can be implemented. Within this framework, the FPS intervenes in the negotiations of the management contracts, as well as in the follow-up of railway investments. My administration provides me with a quarterly state of play on the ongoing investments carried out by SNCB and Infrabel. In order to assess which investments can be included in future multi-annual investment plans, the Rail Investment Cell provides advice on this. I wish to conclude new management contracts with the railway companies by the end of next year. My aim is to gain even more insight into the operation of the rail sector and the use of the resources made available by the federal state. The performance dialogues are an important tool for this. They are provided for in European legislation. The FPS Mobility has a prominent role to play in this. They will allow even better monitoring of the use of the resources and performance of the railway companies. In addition, they also provide a consultation platform to work together on a stronger track in a dynamic environment with a view to continuously improving performance during the duration of the contract, in particular through measurement, reporting, analysis and correction mechanisms. The critical performance indicators or KPIs we discussed earlier in committee will play an important role in the dialogues. As far as your last question is concerned, the follow-up process of investment is already legally defined. Adding new actors would make the process more difficult at the expense of its effectiveness. Finally, I would like to point out that the task of the railway regulator is to check whether railway undertakings and potential railway undertakings are treated in a fair and non-discriminatory manner in accordance with European directives. The railway regulator does not have the task of intervening in the strategic decision-making process. To give him a role in this respect would therefore go against the European texts. They require that the track regulator is autonomous and can act in full independence of any public or private entity. To allow him to intervene in the process relating to the succession of investments and management contracts would completely or partially exclude him from impartiality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u101	For the sake of clarity, Minister, it is not the intention to break into the autonomy of these bodies, certainly not the Court of Auditors, which is a parliamentary body and does not depend on the government. I do believe, however, that there is scope for strengthening service regulation in rail transport, as the CRB also points out. There is also scope for strengthening transparency in the evaluation of management contracts with railway undertakings. It was in that sense that the said opinion went. As a result of the creation of new management contracts, there is room to build in such a thing. However, I take note of your answer, which is that you do not provide for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u102	Mr Roggeman, as regards your first, second and fifth questions, there are currently negotiations between SNCB and the federal government on the new public service contract. Negotiations shall also cover the related investment plans. One of the objectives is effective to renew a series of stations according to the new standards. Projects shall be selected on the basis of a multi-criteria analysis taking into account the state of the station and of the other stations on the line, the station's potential, the planned work by third parties in the station environment and the opportunities arising from railway renewal work. In view of the current negotiations, I cannot give you any details of the new investment plan. As far as your third question is concerned, there are 95 stations that will be equipped with automatic sanitary facilities. SNCB informs me that the list of stations may evolve on the basis of new trends and passenger numbers. I can get you this list in writing. In addition, there are 20 stations where the operation will take place with staff. Here automatic sanitary facilities will also be available outside the opening hours. There are three decisive criteria to provide sanitary facilities at the station: firstly, the waiting time at the station, secondly, the passenger profile and the destination type and, thirdly, the daily number of potential users. As far as your fourth question is concerned, SNCB informs me that it is working on the energy efficiency of the buildings through the renewal of lighting and electrical installations and the replacement of central heating boilers. In the case of new construction and renovation, SNCB always looks at the possibility of installing solar panels for its own energy generation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u103	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I take note of the information. Like colleagues, I look forward to the new management contracts, for which expectations are growing. In the meantime, however, I note that the ambition to increase the accessibility of the stations has been somewhat reduced, because initially it was 250 stations by 2030. In the meantime, there are 230 others, a reduction of about 10%. That's too bad. It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u104	Mr Troasts, HR Rail and SNCB inform me that the functions are complementary to the structure of the degrees used. These degrees will be preserved. The functions give a more detailed picture of the functions performed. The more general structure is based on the titles. These titles are awarded in the two national languages. The new function catalogue has been developed as an unambiguous lexicon for all specific functions within the railways. HR Rail informs me that this lexicon is only used in the underlying administrative computer systems. That is why SNCB has opted for titles in English, for greater clarity and simplicity. This lexicon structures the functional organisation within the administrative HR system. It therefore provides a technical solution to improve staff management. This catalogue of functions does not affect the existing bilingual grades of the staff, nor does it affect the designation of their duties in daily practice. For example, a train driver remains a train driver, regardless of the underlying English name in the job catalogue. It is therefore not the intention of the new job catalogue that employees should address each other or in the presence of travellers with titles in English. The titles in the two national languages remain the rule in daily practice. Language legislation is therefore respected. It is ensured that this remains so, both in working relations and vis-à-vis travellers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u105	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Allow me to find it a little strange that, in the context of creating more clarity and simplicity, recourse should be had to another language.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u106	Mr Raskin turns his questions Nos 55020042C and 55020043C into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Ms Buyst's 55020044C has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u107	Mr President, the evaluation of the Coast Express is expected at the end of this month. Only then will I be able to answer the detailed ones. I can tell you that the summer quail weather and the terrible storm that hit a large part of this country obviously had a negative impact on the number of passengers using the trains and the Coast Express to the coast. I can decide a lot, but not yet about the weather. I can also tell you that after the July evaluation it was decided to refine a few things for the functioning of the Coast Express in the month of August. Pending the results of the full evaluation, I would like to remind you of the history of this project. At my request and in cooperation with my cabinet, SNCB set up this special summer train service to the Belgian coast after a test project in spring. The goal was to attract another and additional audience for the train. In concrete terms, every summer's weekday there were twenty reservation trains. It was ten trains in the morning to the coast and ten trains in the evening towards the inland. The trains left in the morning in Antwerp-Central, Brussels-South, Ghent-Sint-Pieters and Liège-Guillemins. The trains arrived in Blankenberge, De Panne, Knokke and Ostend, from which they left again in the evening. On a few very rainy days, SNCB provided less for some trains. I look forward to the detailed figures with you. So this is undoubtedly being continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u108	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u109	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I look forward to the sequel with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u110	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I'm not gonna hide the fact that I'm a big fan of the reservation train system. I look forward to the final evaluation. I hope that this will be followed up, not only for trains to the coast, but also for example for events or other destinations in certain periods.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u111	Thank you, Minister, for the preliminary answer. This will undoubtedly be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u112	Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u113	Mr De Spiegeleer, it is true that Infrabel worked on the renewal of the Oudenaarde-Ronse railway line during the summer months, in July and August. I paid a visit to the works myself. The goal was to replace all sleepers over a length of 12 kilometers. In some places ballast and consideration were also renewed. At the same time, the infrastructure manager renovated the Louise-Marie tunnel. This tunnel was built in the 19th century and needed urgent renewal. I saw it with my own eyes. This necessary yard, on a line that is important for the region, was financed from the now famous Boost Plan. As you know, the Council of Ministers approved this plan on my proposal last year to address some of the most urgent needs on the rail network. The total amount involved in this yard is more than EUR 11 million. Infrabel tells me to work to ensure compliance with the regulations either directly or through a public contract. If the yard is managed by a contractor, it is free to carry out this task within the rules in force. If an additional licence is necessary as a result of a certain choice of business made by the contractor, it is entirely his own responsibility to obtain it. This is thus laid down in Article 74 of the Royal Decree laying down the general rules for the implementation of public contracts. Infrabel informs me that the planned works and intentions were explained well in time to the local authorities. The nature of the assignment, the possibility of inconvenience and the temporary inaccessibility of consideration were discussed as best as possible. This is also evident from the info pages on the website of the local authorities, the info letters and the press releases. Actions were also taken by the contractor himself. Then I come to your fourth and fifth questions. The licence discussion concerned only the zift activity. This is only a peripheral activity of the yard. The yard itself was never shut down and the work in the tunnel was not affected either. The line was taken back into service as originally foreseen. Finishes are still provided in October, such as work on water management. These works have no impact on train traffic. The zift activity was moved. For this purpose, a search was made for a site without houses along the route, so that no one is affected by it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u114	Thank you, Minister, for the specifications of the works under the Boost Plan, but that was not the subject of my question. I had once asked for this in writing. Last week I was allowed to use that underdeveloped line through a beautiful region, following a successful reception of Flemish Belang Ronse. I'm not questioning the necessity of the work. On the contrary, for the Flemish interest it may be even more so on that line 86. What I do note, however, is that there has been a clear conflict as a result of a communication error by any party. You didn't take away that discontent. Communication errors or a lack of communication from Infrabel with local or regional authorities and neighborhood residents run through this committee as a common thread. You didn't take away that suspicion with your answer, because I don't think the incident with the local government came out of the sky.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u115	Mr President, in view of the late hour, I would like to refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u116	Minister, I would like to comment on the problems of the routes in Zaventem, in particular the Leuven Straight route, which has been affecting our region for some time. In the previous coalition agreement, when I was a member of the government, it was agreed to find a solution. That didn't work. We didn't get through the flight routes file. The previous governments failed to do so either. My question is this. Due to corona, international air traffic has been stationary or almost stationary. However, we are now seeing a huge increase. The complaints are also beginning to rise again in the region of Haacht, Rotselaar, Holsbeek and Lubbeek. That's what it's about. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'm Mayor of Lubbeek. I've received an invitation from you to consult with me on the platform. For our municipality and our region, the mayor of Holsbeek will take the floor. What is the state of play in the Leuven file, however? In my capacity as mayor of my city council, I'm being interpelled about it, including by the opposition. So I'd like to get some explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u117	Mr President, there were also questions from Mrs Reuter and Mr Dallemagne, so I have an answer in both languages. Mrs Bury, Mr Francken, I have nothing new to say about the flight law compared to my reply in this Committee on Mobility of 22 June. As announced, the flight law should be seen as a set of important elements, which will form a legal basis as soon as they are introduced, and which should create a stable framework for Brussels Airport's airport activity. The issue of the overflight of the Brussels-National airport and the resulting noise nuisances is indeed a particularly complex political and judicial heritage, in which each of the parties has an interest contrary to that of its neighbour. In doing so, meeting a particular association of local residents without meeting all of them would have given rise to considerable emotion, which I would just like to avoid in a dossier that has taken a long-standing emotional turn. That is why I have taken the initiative to bring together all the different actors involved in the fly-over within a single platform of consultation led by an external and independent moderator. This consultation platform includes representatives of the municipalities that are experiencing impacts in Walloon Brabant, Flemish Brabant and the Brussels-Capital Region. The platform set up aims to enforce the enforceable judgment of the president of the Dutch-speaking court of first instance of 30 May 2018 in the case between the Belgian State and the municipalities of Grimbergen, Machelen, Meise, Wemmel and Vilvorde. To be quite precise, this judgement is enforceable by provisions, notwithstanding any appeal and without bail. The Belgian State is therefore under an obligation to organise under penalty the "general states of the airport", the aim of which is "to conclude, if possible, a pact on the Brussels airport and its future, and to advise the Belgian State on a number of points in connection with the Brussels National airport". My approach is pragmatic and methodical, based on dialogue, respect and the construction of solutions, to reduce air pollution for everyone if possible. The platform met for the first time this Thursday, September 30th. This first meeting took place in a serene and constructive atmosphere. Each stakeholder was able to present their views and listen to the views of their neighbour. The platform will meet every three months and aims to reach a pact on the Brussels-National airport and its future, as requested by the judgment mentioned. This pact will have to be the subject of a broad consensus and allow lasting solutions to be found on this particularly complex issue. Mr Dallemagne, I am aware of the difficulty of the situation of some residents and I understand their impatience and their legitimate desire to live in a healthy and pleasant environment. I see it every day through the many mails that arrive to me. Each letter from any person who asks me about it gives rise to a systematic follow-up via the competent administration, i.e. the Directorate-General for Air Transport – DGTA (DGLV) – and with regard to skeyes, the air controller. Mr Francken, as a reminder, the State was ordered in June 2015 to stop using the Leuven Straight forward procedure. However, in April 2016, the court revised its decision of June 2015 following opposition from the State and lifted the ban on the use of the Leuven Straightway route. In the judgment of 30 May 2018, reference was also made to the Leuven Rechtby procedure. Since then, the parties against the Leuven Rechtby procedure have appealed against the decision of April 2016. Today, in the absence of a judicial decision, the future of both the Leuven West and the Leuven Straight is still uncertain. I confirm that there was an appeal in this case and that there have been no further developments. The date for the plea is fixed for the end of 2024. This date may be surprising at first sight, but it has to be realized that the request was to stop the seventh phase of the Wathelet plan contained in the Leuven Straight ahead. However, the seventh stage at the heart of the proceedings has already been suspended by the judgment of the Dutch-speaking court of first instance in Brussels of 30 May 2018. That is the same judgment that obliged the Belgian State to organise the aforementioned States General on the national airport, which last week had a start with the first meeting with the mayor and other interested parties in this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u118	Minister, you are referring to a platform that has been launched. It will now meet on a quarterly basis, the first of which will take place on 30 September. Here comes a pact from the bus. There's no time limit on it. That's very vague. You also use the words si possible. The coalition chord doesn't mention si possible. The government agreement says that a solution will be found to the noise and legal uncertainty facing Brussels National Airport. The government is working out a draft of balanced flight law. That's no way to come up with something like that. This will be a very difficult balancing exercise, but those restrictive measures from Brussels are simply untenable. You also say that you have nothing new to report since June 22nd. The same questions were not answered on 22 June. That's why I'm putting them again today and I'm not getting an answer at all. We are talking about the viability of so many people, but also about 60,000 jobs at the airport. Nothing's gonna happen. You say yourself that you'll be sitting together in a very good atmosphere. Actually, you're not promising anything, and that's in contradiction with what the government agreement says.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic590x.u119	Minister, you are referring to a number of legal procedures that are pending or statements on which there will be a further appeal procedure. This in itself is not relevant for the procedure relating to the Leuven Straight ahead route. The route Leuven Straight through is a political choice made to save Leuven-West. As a minister you can perfectly instruct skeyes tomorrow to activate Leuven West and provide a balanced spread over Flemish Brabant. There is no legal objection to this. So what you're saying is absolutely wrong. I would ask you, however, to verify this with the legal advisers, because there is nothing wrong with these claims. The mayors of our regions have been mobilized and active. By the way, some of them are part of a party that is in your majority. So you'll hear a lot about that. We will continue to argue for a balanced distribution. I am not talking about the balanced distribution over Brussels, but about a balanced distribution in Flemish Brabant. Even in our province everything is one-sidedly tuned to Leuven Straight ahead and that cannot be done, everyone has to bear a piece of the burden. That is something Mr Wathelet has done quite wrong. So we're going to hear a lot about that. We will certainly have a discussion on the larger dossier. We remain from Flemish-Brabant, apart from the internal problems, every gouw has its issues asking for a structural solution for the airport file, with the air routes and more charges for Brussels. There's no other way. Lusures and burdens go together, it's freedom and responsibility. Brussels must also carry a lot more. We will continue to discuss this in the coming weeks and months. I'll ask you some additional questions.
