ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u1	Dear Commissioners, Madam Minister, Minister, as agreed on today's agenda, the follow-up to the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u2	Madam President, everything was scheduled very quickly, which we appreciated and asked for. After all, we wanted an exchange of views as soon as possible with the excellence of the BOC's follow-up report. For the sake of fairness, however, I have not yet been able to go through the report of more than 600 pages. However, I have done my best and have been reading until late hours. Minister Van Quickenborne promised us yesterday that we would discuss the note in detail today, but I would rather expect an explanation from the government and perhaps the two interviews and the questions that have already been raised to both ministers. My question is therefore how we are going to proceed with the work, because I am in favour of a debate on this. Yesterday I heard from the chairman of the Committee on the Interior that we could meet again on 21 March. I was looking forward to that because I had another weekend to prepare myself. Now it turned out not to be on 21 March, but on 21 April that the Minister could free himself. That date seems to me to be a little too far in the future. Perhaps it would be nice and courteous for Members of Parliament to agree on a method that is feasible for both members of the government and Members of Parliament. I am thinking of hearings. I'd be happy to hear some of the victims, see what they think of the progress of the committee of inquiry. So the open question I am asking everyone today is exactly how we will proceed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u3	Mr Metsu, I think that many of us have not yet been able to go through those 600 pages. We've just agreed on a few things. Minister Verlinden has to leave today by 2:00 p.m. We will indeed receive an explanation from Minister Van Quickenborne today. He will start, followed by Mrs Verlinden, and then we will deal first with the questions relating to the Interior and then with the two interviews and the questions to the Minister of Justice. Minister Van Quickenborne can stay a little longer. For the work that follows, we have just agreed that we will organise an additional committee at 2.30 p.m. on Tuesday afternoon, so that any group can take the floor after this first reading of the report. I believe that it is indeed intended that there should not be a single meeting for the two committees, but that we should organise this committee regularly so that proper follow-up can be ensured. We can then take other initiatives and, for example, hear victims or other persons. For the sake of completeness, we have also received a letter from Life4Brussels today. It can be found on the extranet and is about the guarantee fund which has been communicated this week. I think we should get started as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u4	Madam President, I promise to be brief. It is a pity, however, that the government has taken so long to give us a state of affairs. The question was already transferred to them on 4 December 2020. We got homework. Like Mr Metsu, I have done everything I can to get through this, as other members of the committee have done. The document is very unclear. We got our homework, but I'm playing the ball back. Is there going to be an integrated table from the government? After all, everything is mixed up now. An answer to a specific issue, namely recommendations, we need to look at different places in the more than 600-page document. There is nowhere a clear table of all recommendations and a state of affairs. Is there going to be any of that or do we have to synthesize everything ourselves?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to see if we can make this more readable for you. The number of pages also reflects the seriousness of the government's work in analysing the follow-up to the recommendations. I will ask the Prime Minister's services, which coordinate everything, to look into this. Tuesday 22 March 2016, 7.58h Zaventem, 9.11h Maalbeek, 32 dead, 340 injured and immensely human suffering. Our 9/11. The thoughts of the victims and human suffering make a man very humble and quiet, even today. Together with my colleague from the Interior, I would like to thank Parliament for this invitation. Almost five years after the attacks, it fits in with the report and recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry of 22 March 2016. We owe it to the victims. That report and the recommendations were adopted unanimously in your Parliament at the time, and that is not a detail. It is proof that Parliament, the majority and the opposition together, is able to oppose beacons. The fact that the report did not stick to words is also a fact. My speech will consist of two chapters. Firstly, as regards the picture of the terrorist threat today, it is important that we keep that image sharp and accurate in order to stay alert, but also to do the right things and take the right measures. Secondly, I would like to explain to you the policy, the lessons learned and the implementation of the recommendations. Five years ago, our country was struck by a tragedy. But it would have been a second tragedy if we hadn't learned from it to do better. In this time frame, I can't be exhaustive. I will look specifically at the victims section, some points in the chapter on security architecture and, of course, also at the chapter on radicalisation. I also link my most important policy initiatives to the lessons learned. In this explanatory statement, I will also include answers to the questions put to me by several colleagues before the committee on Wednesday 17 March 2020. I'll start with the threat. Our country has been hit hard by terrorism. Not only were there the indiscriminate acts of terrorism of 22 March 2016: our country was also the first on the continent to be the victim of an attack by a Franco-Algeria Syrian fighter, Mehdi Nemmouche. His attack on the Jewish Museum in May 2014 resulted in four casualties. Nemmouche was the warning sign of the cell sent by the Islamic State, which would then sow death and destruction in France and in our country. Belgium is the country with the largest number of Syrian fighters in relation to its population. More than 420 people, mostly young people, managed to reach the zone of conflict where they joined terrorist groups such as the Islamic State or Jabhat al-Nusra. Let us not forget that a number of these Belgian Syrian fighters constituted the nucleus of a cell of some 30 people responsible for the attacks in Paris on 13 November 2015 and, a few months later, Zaventem and Maelbeek, on 22 March 2016. Since the attacks of 22 March 2016, four terrorist attacks have been committed in our country. On 6 August 2016, a man injured two police officers in Charleroi with a machete. On 20 June 2017, a man activated an booby-trapped suitcase at the Central Station in Brussels, which did not, however, cause any injuries. On 26 August 2017, a man tried to attack three soldiers patrolling the Boulevard Émile Jacqmain in Brussels. On May 29, 2018, a man killed two police officers and one civilian in Liège. The night before, he had already killed another civilian. Each time, the author, known as the Alone Actor, died. Each time, the Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack. In addition, the security services prevented several attacks or arrested individuals for whom there were indications that they intended to resort to violence in the name of an extremist ideology. The successful intervention of our special units in Verviers in January 2015, the plans of attacks foiled against the American Embassy in June 2019 or, more recently, the plans of attacks foiled by two minors in Eupen are all examples of these successful interventions. Following the terrorist crisis in 2015, 2016 and 2017, with almost continuous threat level 3, the overall threat level was recalibrated by the OCAD to level 2, from 22 January 2018, which meant that the terrorist threat decreased. In full terror crisis, the threat came mostly directly from IS, especially from the commandos sent out by the headquarters in Raqqa and Mosul who had received military training in Syria or Iraq. The last attack of such an ISIS commando on the European continent was the attack at Brussels Airport in Zaventem and at the metro station Maalbeek in Brussels. After that, the threat became mostly endogenous. The so-called lone actors, often vulnerable figures who are manipulated and used by extremist ideologies, were responsible in Belgium and Europe for isolated actions, rather small in nature, both in terms of preparation and execution, low cost and low sophisticated, so, but unfortunately often with high impact. Those lone actors, along with the targets they selected - often soft targets - and the modes operandi such as firearms, knives or vehicles, created a diffuse threat image. Thus, even without structural and formal links with terrorist groups, individuals can be influenced by terrorist and jihadist propaganda. Despite the fact that the IS threat has been reduced, the terrorist group still has a recruiting and mobilising impact. The propaganda that the IS distributes to its intermediaries has decreased, both in volume and in quality. The attacks in Austria and France in 2020 have shown that calls from IS, and to a lesser extent from Al-Qaeda, can still have an effect. In 2019 and 2020, some fifteen attacks by lone actors, or in the jargon, home grown terrorist fighters (HTFs), were mainly thwarted in France and the United Kingdom. The perpetrators found their inspiration in jihadist ideology or propaganda. In our country, too, there have been a number of interventions by the security and police services in the context of HTFs. The motives of the perpetrators of the attacks of recent years have become more vague and diverse. The fact that they take action is always an individual story, in which ideology, religious and oppressive propaganda and the copycat effect play a varied role. Some of the perpetrators do not associate themselves at all with a specific terrorist group, but are eager buyers of their propaganda. Personal grievances can also play an important role, like a psychological problem or certain symbolic trigger events, such as the publication and re-publication of the Mohammed cartoons. We refer to the arrest in November 2020 of two radicalised miners in the Eupen region. The investigation confirmed the intention of the persons concerned to commit an attack. It is no coincidence that we are talking here about minors. It is too early to talk about a structural trend, but it happens that adolescents often become radicalized and are involved in terrorist conspiracy. The vast majority of attacks by an isolated actor in recent years can be linked to the jihadist terrorist ideology. The majority of the 700 individuals in the common OCAM database - called the "OCAM list" or the "list of terrorists" - are considered to be adherents of the same ideology. Nevertheless, the threat is certainly not limited to the jihadist scene: some far-right conceptions can also play a role. Take, for example, the attack on bars in Chicha in the German city of Hanau and the attack on a mosque in the French city of Bayonne. There have so far been no major terrorist incidents from right-wing extremist quarters in Belgium. We do notice an increase in hate speech and polarization on the internet. In recent years, there has been an increase in judicial interventions and successions in the context of threats posed by right-wing extremists in our country. An important difference between Islamist terrorism and right-wing extremistism is that the right-wing extremist network is more visible online than its Islamist counterpart. This makes it easier for young people to come into contact with right-wing extremist propaganda. Especially the social media are an accelerant. We know the phenomenon that is commonly called the confirmation bias or the echo chamber. As a result, information is shown which confirms and strengthens the personal conviction. Allow me to quote from an unclassified report by an international service: "It is like junk food. It is not by coincidence that junk food is full of salt to keep you coming back. It is the same with the internet. They bring stuff that is exciting and interested and will draw you in. If you're interested in violent hateful speeches, you will get more of the same, and often more and more extremist content. It creates a common dynamic between disinformation, hate speech and terrorist content." The misleading appearance of the isolated actor's diffuse threat has not facilitated the work of our security services, even though the threat has diminished. We must avoid any misunderstandings in this regard, so vigilance remains to be exercised. If we move from one analysis at national level to another at global level, we have no reason to rejoice, quite the contrary. To illustrate this, I will give you two insights. First, even if the caliphate no longer exists as such, we find that the Islamic State has not yet died. On the contrary, as a rebel movement, it still constitutes a force that must continue to be taken seriously. In Syria and Iraq, attacks and abductions are still being carried out by jihadist groups linked to the Islamic State or even Al-Qaeda. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, the Salafist-jihadist ideology is still alive. The Islamic State and Al-Qaeda are still transnational terrorist organizations that continue the global jihad. Thus, the former still has many relays and branches that are very active in different parts of the world. Besides, our military can testify to this. On 1 and 24 January 2020, they were the victims of two attacks. Fortunately, human damage has remained limited. Over the last ten years, the power of attraction of these ideologies has been reduced, but we must continue to keep a close eye on the evolution of this phenomenon. So far, a sketch of the threat. Now I come to the lessons learned and the way ahead. I come in this way to the report and recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the work done here in Parliament by the Committee of Inquiry under the chairmanship of Mr Dewael. A 1,000-page report made a large number of recommendations. The committee did so with great authority, not only because the report was adopted unanimously, but also because the committee of inquiry has analysed the emergency aid, the problems of victims, the security architecture and radicalism with great expertise and depth. Those recommendations didn't fall into deaf ears. Many of the recommendations have already been implemented or are in the process of being implemented. I cannot, of course, give an exhaustive overview in this time frame, but I can tell you the following. First of all, the victims. The parliamentary committee of inquiry has considered the victims, and that is quite right. Victims often feel abandoned. We have learned from this, often with shame and shame. I don't think anyone's too bad to admit that. There's still a lot of suffering. There's still a lot of scars. There's still a lot of trauma. The testimonies of victims in the media, I'm not going to stay unmoved. It's our duty to listen to it and get on with it. The previous government has taken many initiatives on the basis of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry. I have already learned a lot from the conversations I have had with victims, victim associations and rescue workers over the past few months. At the risk of generalisation and of losing some degree of nuance, I think we can identify the problems faced by victims in three categories: financial treatment and compensation, practical settlement and the human aspect. I am also responding to the questions raised by colleagues Pivin, Dillen, Van Vaerenbergh and Boukili. As far as the financial aspect is concerned, despite the many initiatives taken at various levels in recent years, we are forced to note today that not all victims have yet received the full sums owed by insurance companies for various reasons. Some medical examinations, for example, are still under way as a result of the evolution of the injuries incurred, or some victims have not yet accepted the compensation proposed by the insurance. I hear that our system is being compared again with systems applied abroad, more specifically with the French guarantee fund system. I do not dwell today on the merits of the French system because, after all, our Parliament has finally opted for a different system. The Committee of Inquiry recommends that "for the future, Belgium should establish a system which, instead of offering subsidiary aid which obliges the victim to apply itself to public or private bodies responsible for indemnifying him or her, provides for the creation of a fund which will be able to allocate to him or her, within the shortest possible time, aids and allowances to recover what is owed by the insurance companies. The dramatic situation in which the victims find themselves in the aftermath of an attack requires that they be assisted by a system that cannot be improvised in an emergency." I recall that on 20 December 2018 this Parliament approved a system of advances and subrogations. On the proposal of my predecessor, a bill has been approved so that victims of terrorist acts can receive an advance of up to 125,000 euros. I refer in particular to the law of 15 January 2019 and to the law of 3 February 2019. With the Act of 15 January 2019 amending the Act of 1 August 1985, the Parliament implemented a system of subrogation in which the State takes over the rights of victims in order to finally be able to claim financial assistance for insurance. In the event of an act of terrorism, the State is automatically subrogated to the amount of the aid granted to the victim's rights against the perpetrator or the civilly responsible. This means in practice that the Commission for Financial Assistance to Victims of Intentional Acts of Violence can grant assistance, mostly in the form of advances, without waiting for the victim to receive compensation from the insurance companies involved in the attack. The State will subsequently apply the subrogation to the insurance companies in order to recover the amount of the advance granted on the compensation payable to the victim. In this way, the victim can receive quasi-immediate financial assistance, and the insurance companies are ultimately responsible for the financing of the victim. As the name suggests, the advance was designed to be paid despite the possibility of insurance intervention, despite the principle of subsidiarity of the Commission's intervention for financial aid to victims. The report of 13 December 2018 made on behalf of the Committee on Justice on the four proposals leading up to the laws of 15 January and 3 February 2019 states: "In addition, the procedure is effectively simplified in order to be able to proceed with the payment of financial aid more quickly. The victim of terrorism must never prove the urgency of his request. It is automatically considered urgent." Colleagues, the parliamentarians of the French-speaking opposition at that time, that is, Mrs Onkelinx et al., had at the time tabled an amendment to include an article in the Act of 1 August 1985 concerning the creation of the Guarantee Fund for Victims of Acts of Terrorism. The amendment had been rejected by nine votes to three. The proposal to set up a kind of guarantee fund, as in France, did not, in the end, reach that debate. It is in this way, with the choices made at the time, that Parliament has followed the recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry. Meanwhile, the Commission for Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Violence and to the Occasional Saviors received 1,572 applications for the various terrorist attacks in our country and those involving Belgians abroad. In 694 decisions financial aid was granted, 33 decisions postponed the case, 143 decisions rejected the application and 862 cases have not yet been decided. In total, EUR 5957.907.22 was paid out in financial aid, of which more than EUR 2 million in the form of advances to victims of attacks. In case of urgency, which is automatically the case for victims of terrorism, victims can receive an advance from the committee. They should not therefore wait for a decision from their insurance company. At the same time, a legislative amendment was introduced so that victims of attacks would also be entitled to a recovery pension and reimbursement of medical costs, as foreseen for war victims. However, the government is working on a solution to close the gaps in existing legislation. These gaps can lead to people not being insured for all the damage today. Very few people are personally insured for all the damage that an attack can do. The cover often depends on the insurance of the place where the attack took place. On a proposal from Minister of Economy Dermagne, the government will amend the law of 2007. All victims of attacks in Belgium must be compensated, regardless of whether or not they are insured. In the meantime, insurers have already paid EUR 50 million, which is its figures at the end of last year, and a commission of EUR 70 million for the victims. My esteemed predecessor also concluded an agreement with the insurance companies for higher moral compensation of 200 % and higher compensation for direct victims. I'm going to the practical part. It must be admitted that victims were often lost and disoriented in the face of the maze of services they faced. Despite all the considerable efforts and commitment of these professionals, such as the Victims Support Commission or the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, the administrative procedure remained very cumbersome. The victims had to answer the same questions, over and over again, and were often sent back from left to right. The Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry has taken note of several testimonies in this direction. Let us be honest, the complexity of our Belgian structure does not really make things right. If there is one lesson that must be learned by justice, it is that victims must be better assisted. At the suggestion of my predecessor, a one-stop shop has been set up within the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. This one-stop shop is now operational and staffed with specialized personnel, because victim assistance is also an empathy, showing the way in the maze of our administrations and services. The Single Window can be activated in the event of a terrorist attack or major disaster, for example during a rail disaster such as that in Buizingen or a gas explosion such as in Ghislenghien. On 22 April 2109, a memorandum of understanding was concluded between the federal level and the federated entities, since it is the federated entities which have the competence to assist and support victims, in particular by the victim reception services. Once the one-stop shop is activated, victims are proactively guided so that they can find themselves in the whole range of Belgian services. A guide has been developed to clearly define how federal and regional authorities need to work together, and above all to emphasize the importance of proactivity. In concrete terms, the one-stop shop can be reached in a physical, telephone and virtual manner. It is located within the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. As far as the human aspect is concerned, during my discussions with the victim associations, I found that the feeling among the victims arose that they were not recognised. What has perhaps been most lacking in the reception and guidance of victims of horrific acts of terror is the acceptance of the feeling of victims that they really want to be recognised as victims, regretting the admirable efforts of many committed and compassionate aid workers and professionals. Think of Olivier Lauwers and Annelies De Saeger, people from the Victim Support Committee and the federal prosecutor. First of all, it is not a financial issue, but above all a question of humanity, of warmth, of empathy. I have therefore decided to fully support the initiative of V-Europe Victim Association, a recognised Victims' Association appointing Victim Coaches. The system of coaches seemed like a missing piece of puzzles to me. Coaches are preferably experienced experts, who seek out and assist the victims on an administrative but above all psychological and human level, supported by a back office which forms the relay to the official points of contact of the government. In doing so, we introduce a different way of dealing with the victims, from the experience of the victim himself through a one-to-one relationship with experience experts. I really hope that system can make a difference. Finally, we will make every effort to ensure that the victims are able to attend the process of the attacks in optimal conditions, via live streaming if they wish. The investigation is complete. On 5 January 2021, the Council Chamber decided to refer 10 suspects to the Court of Assistes. As we await the outcome of the Bataclan process - starting in September 2021 - the process of the attacks in our country will only begin in September 2022. I'm coming to the security architecture now. Mr Verlinden will undoubtedly talk about this. The key issue, as well as the guiding principle in the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry set up after the attacks of 22 March 2016, is undoubtedly the question of how to ensure that services cooperate optimally in the exchange of information and in the coordination of measures to combat terrorism, extremism and problematic radicalisation. The Committee of Inquiry put a very clear finger on the wound on that point. There was talk of breeding and island formation. Information wasn't always shared. This required appropriate structures and legislation, but first and foremost a culture of trust. This cultural change has happened over the past few years. The intelligence and security services and the judicial authorities share information and cooperate, more than ever before. Co-operation with services with a well-being logic and social preventive services has also been made possible in addressing problematic radicalisation. That challenge arises in all Western countries that have been or are facing the IS threat. Especially in view of the evolving threat picture of sent-out commands to inspired lone actors, the focus is widened from the narrow approach of terrorism to a broader policy of preventing and counter-countering violent extremism. The emphasis has, rightly, shifted to prevention. We have created consultative bodies within the canvas of the Radicalism Plan, which allow a multidisciplinary approach to prevention, early detection, exchange of information, accurate prioritisation and alignment of the best placed services to take the most appropriate measures. Those measures may be proactive, preventive or repressive or may be aimed at social reintegration. Customization is the message: an individual customized approach, the tailor-made approach. Clearly, the exit or deradicalisation program never existed. It doesn't exist or will never exist. I wish it were that simple. In concrete terms, there are local task forces at the level of the arrondissements, working from a security perspective. At local level, there are the local integrated safety cells, which work from a social prevention perspective. For this purpose, Parliament adopted the law on shared professional secrecy and the law on the LIVCs. The government is currently working on a cooperation agreement with the Länder on the LIVCs. The information officer forms the bridge between the two platforms, LTF and LIVC. The aim is to reduce as much as possible the threat risk posed by the individual concerned. In addition, the Joint Intelligence Center and the Joint Decision Center were established in Brussels as a direct implementation of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry. All the services concerned now recognise the added value of the system. While information on terrorist or extremist threat was previously treated separately, diffusely and without systematic consultation by each intelligence or security service separately, the information is now first put together and, if necessary, enriched in the Joint Intelligence Center, to make a decision in the Joint Decision Center. That could be an intelligence investigation to obtain additional information. One can choose to judge, for example the initiation of a judicial inquiry. Or it may be sufficient to pass the case on to the LTF, for example with a view to a pressing approach. These are all-service decisions based on shared and aggregated information. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the difference from ten years ago. Ten years ago, that was simply unthinkable. At the same time, another tool was created to strengthen this cooperation, namely the famous BDC, the Common Data Bank, the former OCAM list, the so-called "terrorist" list. Through BDC, all partners can exchange information dynamically. This is why BDC is considered the backbone of the TFL network. The BDC is the tool that allows you to have a more accurate view of the people to follow. On the basis of this information, it is possible to carry out relevant assessments of individual threats and to take effective action, thus ensuring adequate follow-up. It is thanks to this tool that the mayors also have access to information concerning the persons included in the OCAM list. Ten years ago, however, this was also quite inconceivable. It takes a network to defeat a network . If we want to defeat these networks, we need to form a network. That's one of the lessons learned, and that's what we're doing. We have even been congratulated abroad and by international organizations for setting up these consultative structures and bodies. I know that as Belgians, it is not in our nature, but we should not always be too modest. However, there is no question of complacency. We have no reason to rest on our laurels. There is still a lot of work to be done. We must therefore remain vigilant and be able to react flexibly to new trends. I have already said it several times, and I repeat it again: in this respect, social networks are really changing the situation. It is precisely for this reason that I would like to give the intelligence services more room for manoeuvre to detect hate speech on social media. With a change of law, I want to allow them to commit certain crimes. For the sake of clarity, that is not a carte blanche for the intelligence services, because that intelligence method must be approved by the BIM Committee in advance, that is to say by three magistrates. This is part of our rule of law: intrusive methods must be approved by the judiciary. Together with the Minister for Defence, Ludivine Dedonder, I will come to Parliament before the summer. We will further develop and modernise the security of the state. As I pointed out in committee earlier this week, at a request from Mr Gabriels, the aim of the OSINT/SOCMINT project was to facilitate operational searches on the Internet for the ADIV, the State's Security and the Federal Police. I insisted on that, too. There is no point in continuing to invest in projects that, after long attempts and investments, do not produce the expected results. In the meantime, State Security is already working on an alternative. This year we are also focusing on the digital reform of state security. Due to a lack of expertise in our own home, digitalisation has never really got off the ground. That is why the State Security has taken on board an external company with the necessary expertise and flexibility. This guarantees that after this project the State Security will be able to manage its IT and platform autonomously. A further step will be to substantially strengthen the State's security from 2022 onwards. Cooperation with the military intelligence service is also being further developed. In doing so, we implement the clear recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. A modern and strong security of the State, whose democratic control is ensured, inter alia, by the Standing Committee I, is a guarantee of our democracy. That democratic model, which guarantees our way of life, must not be taken for granted, because our democracy is under pressure on various sides. It must be protected from extremists and other players in the ideological market who manipulate our worldview, cultivate disinformation, strengthen conspiracy theories, and use them usefully with regard to social media, against the dangers of interference and espionage, and to protect our scientific and economic potential. So there's a lot at stake. You have understood me well. With new policies, we will not cut off the branch we are sitting on. We will not undermine our democratic achievements. The legislation that has been adopted in recent years, the night search, the law on the apologists and the civilian infiltrators and the extended criminalisation of terrorist offences, were always necessary in order for our federal prosecutor to be able to do what it has to do in the fight against terrorism. However, there have been other further proposals in recent years. We will not further restrict freedom of expression. My proposal to amend Article 150 of the Constitution does not entail any additional criminalisation. However, what is already punishable today must also be prosecuted, otherwise we risk impunity. That's all I care about. Finally, I would like to focus on the aspect of radicalisation. Mr Geens has asked a number of pertinent questions about this. On the strategic note on terrorism, extremism and radicalisation, Mr Verlinden will be explaining in a moment. That strategic note will be an important instrument of the holistic approach to problematic radicalisation that we are pursuing, regardless of the complex state structure of our country. In the chapter on radicalism, the parliamentary committee of inquiry has clearly opposed certain foreign influences. In this light, the concession between the Government of the Buildings and the Great Mosque, managed by the World Muslim League and Saudi Arabia, was terminated. The Great Mosque was now entrusted to the Muslim executive, but I suspended the recognition procedure after a negative opinion from the security services. We will not accept the segregational force emanating from certain Islamisms, you will hear that I clearly use plurality. Together with the Muslim community, we are working on a positive story of diversity, transparency and representativeness. Mr Geens, as far as the problem of radicalisation in prisons is concerned, you know better than anyone that we are coming a long way. First of all, it is important that we have ears and eyes in our prisons so that we know how terrorist prisoners behave, but also to find out whether prisoners of common law are not radicalising. To avoid that, the Deradex wings were created, decontamination wings to prevent ideological hardliners from contaminating others. Unlike France, for example, we have not opted for a separate intelligence service in prison. The security of the state is working with our prisons for that. We continue to build and professionalise the workings and collaborations. For each prison we will appoint a security coordinator, following the model of the police informant. This security coordinator is the point of contact for State Security and will specifically follow the aspect of radicalisation and intelligence collection. Radicalised prisoners with a potential extremist danger are also placed on the OCAD list. In addition to the element of detection and intelligence collection, the aspect of follow-up is important. For that, we will create penitentiary LIVCs. That is a consultation platform based on the same principles as regular LIVCs, but within the prison walls. Such LIVCs in prison are chaired by the security coordinator of the prison and also consist of the psychosocial service of the prison and representatives of the Communities responsible for the supervision of the prisoners. This composition may be extended to include the information officer of the official residence of the inmate and other local, socio-preventive services. Besides early detection, a tailor-made guidance pathway is the main objective of such a LIVC. In that LIVC, the federal and community services can freely and in a confidential setting develop and coordinate such a trajectory. This process focuses on the needs, vulnerabilities and strengths of the prisoner with the final objective of reintegrating the person concerned into society. However, it goes without saying that the person concerned will remain on the OCAD list after the end of the sentence. This means that he or she will be followed as a priority by the security services and the LTF and can be discussed further in the local LIVC. If the person re-integrates, what happens, he or she can be removed from that list over time. For those whom we believe to continue to pose a danger, there are several proposals pending, including from your party, Mr Geens. Of course, we can discuss it with open sight. However, this debate must not blind us to the need to work for proper guidance and follow-up of the inmate from day one. When it comes to the security of our citizens, this government will leave nothing to chance. This government is making significant budgets to strengthen our security services. At the same time, we must be modest. We need to realise that the zero risk does not exist. That is why we must not focus solely on security, on justice and on police. Prevention is better than cure. Prevention is at least as important. Terrorism does not take place in a vacuum, it has social causes. We must also work on this. Madam President, Minister, Victor Hugo said that if one opens a school, one can close a prison. That's actually a fitting boltade.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u6	Madam President, Mr President, 22 March 2016 is unfortunately one of those days where everyone remembers where he or she was. We remember that day because it was a moment when time seemed to stand still and when we were faced with our own vulnerability, because it could also happen to us or our neighbors. That is why my thoughts today go first of all to the many families who watched their loved ones leave in the morning, lovers who were brutally ripped out of life a short time later. How hard and pointless can violence be? I also sympathize with the many people who were seriously physically or mentally injured. I realize that some, and their families, friends and colleagues, still have a psychic scar today, a scar that will never go away. We feel very small and small today. Our compassion is sincere, but at the same time we feel that the cross continues to wear heavily for those who have experienced that terrible day, In silence we hear the grief of many families, friends and colleagues and feel the heartbeat of those who left life or left a part of their carefree life. On behalf of many, I would also like to express our deep gratitude to all the aid workers: security personnel, airport staff and the metro and volunteers who, on that day and the days and years after, sometimes with the courage of despair, spoke to the victims, accompanied, cared for and offered a great deal of expertise for the future. This also includes a sincere thank you for the thorough work of Justice and, in particular, former Justice Minister Koen Geens, so that justice can also be done. We are indeed vulnerable people, but society is also vulnerable. The terrorists weren't just trying to make as many victims as possible. They also wanted to disrupt our society and democracy. Terrorists want to spread fear and division, but we will not admit that. Fear must not paralyze us and hatred must not become the new normal. If we look at the victims, we can take an example of their perseverance. They show us the way. The fall in which we cannot and do not want to fall is that of undermining polarisation, because together we stand strong. We believe in diversity and connectedness as an asset. There is room for everyone, where we respect each other's rights and freedoms without violence and without hatred. Finally, 22 March 2016 exposed the vulnerability of our public services. In the light of these events, it remains necessary to improve the functioning and the objective of all our services. It was and remains necessary to continuously improve those services. The parliamentary committee of inquiry into terrorist attacks has done an impressive job and has recommended the direction in which we should and should continue to work. Over the past few years, efforts have been made to improve the security architecture of our country. The information gathering and sharing has improved. Cooperation with different national and international security services is being optimised. We are not abandoning the fight against radicalisation and violent extremism. We will explain this in more detail in a moment. There is no risk-free society, as we know, but we will continue to work resolutely to protect the vulnerability of people in our society, of course with respect for all universal fundamental rights and for our Constitution. The recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry following the attacks of 22 March 2016 were essential to thoroughly reform our security landscape. You have received a detailed report that provides an overview of the work done to date. It shows that considerable work has already been done to respond to a wide range of recommendations. But the work is not finished yet, it will never be finished. As stated in my policy statement, I am committed to continuing the ongoing work in collaboration with the Minister of Justice. It is important that there has been a genuine cultural change in the security and intelligence services, which, among other things, led to better information sharing and information gathering. To this end, new structures, instruments and bodies have been created which give the police and security services every means possible to arm ourselves against possible new attacks and senseless violence. The most remarkable advances have been made in the security architecture and in the areas of police information management. In addition, the exchange of international police information and cooperation within the various security services have been strengthened. Allow me in the following to present to you the strengths of the achievements of the last five years and to give you a forecast of what can be implemented in the long term. Firstly, we now have improved police information management, as I said. With regard to the strategy of police intelligence management, the Advisory Committee, Information and ICT Committee, was set up, an important body within the integrated police force. This Committee gives opinions on the strategic priorities in the field of information and ICT in the police field. Over the past five years, there has also been a shift towards better management of national information within the police service through the development of various technical tools by the federal police. I am thinking of the deployment of the ANPR, the central register of alerts, I+ Belgium and PACOS. The iPolice project requires special attention. It will change the operation of the police in all areas. It is a real modernisation, spread over five years, between today and 2025, which provides for the integration of artificial intelligence. Over the last few months, a standard work has been carried out to enable the public contract to be concluded. This year, once we have confirmed the resources for this, we want to award the contract and get to work. This will also pave the way for the digital transformation of the integrated police force. It is not just an automation of what we are doing today. It is really about the digitisation of processes of information processing and collection for the benefit of all policemen on the ground. All useful information will be accessible at any time to the person who needs the information. Furthermore, the Focus application is also part of this digital transformation and concerns software that makes police information accessible to police employees in the field via smartphones or tablets. Focus is somehow the front end and provides the data. From there, the data is transmitted to the iPolice backend, which analyses it and then returns it to users in the field via Focus. These two important IT projects are therefore complementary. The flow will be one of the main weapons of information in general police management but also one of our main weapons in the fight against terrorism. In addition, we will further strengthen the judicial police. With regard to the operation of the judicial police, the Director of the FGP shall issue a clear and structured policy. In the so-called DGJ 3.0, the federal police are involved in evolving with the spirit of time and the needs attached to it. From this angle, the General Executive Board of the Judicial Police will invest in five key areas in the coming years: strategy, coordination, intelligence, specialised research and specialised techniques, and then evolve into a modern, dynamic, specialised judicial police. First of all, as you know, we have provided funds for filling 450 vacancies in the FGP. This is not just about police officers, but about the recruitment of specialised profiles such as IT experts and data analysts. These recruitments are currently in full swing and go hand in hand with an intensive employee-branding campaign by the integrated police, to warm people up for an exciting and challenging career with the police. In order to fill the framework for the integrated police, the recruitment of 1,600 inspectors is foreseen for 2021 and also in the coming years. In addition, I would also like to make it very clear that side-influx is possible. The recruitment of specialised profiles should be possible in order to combat specific forms of crime, as has been proven with the Sky ECC file, among other things, last week. In addition, we must continue to work on international police cooperation. International cooperation with other countries has been deepened over the past five years and was first established with neighbouring countries. A good example of this is the new Benelux Treaty, which allows unseen opportunities for cross-border cooperation with the Netherlands and with Luxembourg. With regard to cooperation with France, strategic and operational consultation bodies and forums for consultation between neighbours have been established and facilitated. Cooperation with other countries has also been intensified. For example, the preclearance agreement was implemented with the United States in 2020. There is also very intense cooperation between our Belgian police service and Europol, for example also in the investigation of Anchor Chat and SKY ECC. With regard to police liaison officers abroad, an additional post was declared open in London. On the basis of an analysis, it was decided to maintain the position of liaison officer in Istanbul, Turkey. The Belgian and Turkish police have concluded a bilateral action plan for the period 2019-2020. This year a new image of the Belgian international police policy will also be realised, with the network of liaison officers being re-evaluated. It will also examine whether the placement of liaison officers in other countries or regions is necessary or useful. The processing of international alerts and the optimisation of the international exchange of information have been continuously optimised within international police cooperation in recent years. We do this by updating the regulations and deploying training with reference brochures and manuals. The further automation of alerts and signals of persons was improved with the so-called Cross register. We have also taken additional measures in certain places, such as the additional security measures at the airport. The police services have further invested in these security measures in order to be able to react quickly when terrorist incidents occur. A large number of additional checks were specifically provided for the airport which contribute to safety. For example, extra dynamic mobile patrols were deployed and control of the entry routes to the airport was strengthened with ANPR cameras. The control of the airport parking spaces, with ANPR cameras and/or other structural measures, is also foreseen. In addition, a dynamic control of access to the security zone of the airport buildings was introduced and additional controls were provided for at the airside-landside border, including by checking travel documents and screenings. Finally, it also provided for increased awareness and a prior briefing at the start of the service of the staff of the surveillance companies of the transport companies operating at the airport. The implementation of these controls is supported by the introduction of the role of the Behavioural Detection Officer (BDO). The task of the ODB is to recognize any unusual or deviant behaviour on the basis of a wide variety of characteristics. All personnel of the Federal Judicial Police, the Aviation Police and the Directorate of Security (DAB) have completed this training. The Directorate of Security created in November 2017 was also entrusted with the legal task of ensuring the security of Brussels Airport's infrastructure. Since 1 December 2018, 66 staff of the DAB have been present. In other words, permanent armed security is ensured by police personnel. In the context of integrated border management, and in line with the new agenda imposed on us by the European Union, many new challenges, such as the implementation of the European Entry and Sorite System (EES), await us in the coming year. We must also continue to work on a modern police organisation, because the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry also focus on the supportive aspects of the police organisation, including recruitment and selection, and in particular diversity and integrity. Today, the police work in a modern and sustainable HRM model on two tracks, on the one hand a generalistic track and on the other hand a highly specialised track. A great deal of preparatory work has already been done for the first track in preparation for the introduction of a new selection and recruitment concept, with a view to implementing it this autumn. The new concept makes it possible for each corps to organise its own selection, albeit in accordance with the same general procedure. As you know, we also want to be able to speed up the recruitment of 1,600 staff. With regard to radicalisation and terrorism, as Mr Van Quickenborne has already said, the internal information system has been improved. I also endorse the importance of the improved exchange of information between the various security services. The need for a cultural change from the sharing of information from a need-to-know principle to a need-to-share principle remains topical. The upcoming work on the creation of the safety crossroads bank, in line with the vision paper of the partners concerned, which was finalised in 2020, is a challenge that we can certainly not avoid and with which we will and must continue under my policy. We are not aiming at a new separate database, but at an efficient system of secure interconnectivity between the various existing databases of the security services. In the meantime, cooperation between the various services has already intensified and improved in practice. A good example is that of success in the joint intelligence centres and joint decisions centres for the arrondissement of Brussels and the other districts of the Court of Appeal. At the same time, in the districts of Liège, Charleroi, Antwerp and Ghent, a memorandum of understanding was implemented on the basis of the experience gained in the Brussels district. This memorandum led to the creation of a forum dedicated to the fight against terrorism. With regard to radicalization and terrorism, information is better shared and more effective. In addition, structures and procedures have been put in place to clarify the role of each individual and to determine which service is best placed to take specific action. Only through close cooperation between services, the multi-agency approach, can violent radicalisation be successfully addressed. It is on the basis of this approach that we have continued to organize ourselves. This multi-agency approach based on information sharing and the principle of subsidiarity has been implemented in Belgium through the Radicalism Plan (Plan R). Plan R is the cornerstone between the judicial, administrative and socio-preventive approach, but also between the federal, regional and local levels in the fight against problematic radicalisation. This approach is reflected in the structures of the local task forces and the Local Integrated Security Cell in the area of radicalism. At least once a month, the LTFs come together. An LTF focuses on a reactive and repressive approach through police and judicial follow-up, which reflects the composition of the LTFs, which are police, security and information services and the police. An LTF can also decide on appropriate measures for each individual. However, in the case of measures which are rather social-prevention measures and/or are aimed at aftercare, they are taken at the level of the LIVCs, which must be organized by the mayor. A go-between is provided between the two in the function of the information officer, which can connect the two platforms. It is therefore clear that we have a policy that goes beyond purely repressive and that relies on active cooperation with regions, Communities, cities and municipalities and also, not least, civil society. In other words, it relies on a multi-agency approach, which is present at all levels of government. In the fight against the phenomenon of violent radicalisation, violent extremism and terrorism, in addition to the above-mentioned initiatives, a number of concrete initiatives have also been taken with regard to the fight against the phenomenon itself: adaptations of the regulatory framework; the extension of Plan R to a strategic note on extremism and terrorism; the development and expansion of the common database; the deployment of an information-led police council for the exchange of information between the five PJF Terro and DJSOC Terro. The Internet Reference Unit has also been created to actively eliminate any content on the Internet that incites terrorism and hatred. It is clear that efforts in this area continue to receive the full attention of our police officers, intelligence services, OCAM, NCCN and the prosecutor's office. The current health crisis does not change anything. Our staff are still on the alert. As indicated, the plan R will evolve here into a strategic note Extremism and violent radicalism. Early detection and good risk assessment are central to this strategy, as are a culture of trust and cooperation between different services at all levels. Work on the LIVC-R cooperation agreement is also being resumed. The situation of the refugee camps in Syria is deteriorating day after day. Our country wants to make efforts to bring back Belgian children from IS fighters up to 12 years old. Their mothers could also return to Belgium after an extensive safety investigation and under strict conditions. In order to implement that decision of the National Security Council, cooperation between the different levels of policy is crucial in order to be able to monitor their cooperation and return in an appropriate way. National security remains a crucial criterion. A multidisciplinary approach to our security and intelligence services is also essential in cooperation with the competent authorities at regional and local level. As I pointed out, the complete follow-up and exchange of information are of particular importance to ensure the security of our citizens. The common database is an important tool for the exchange of information on terrorism and radicalism. The GGB contains persons in five different statutes. Prior to the addition of a person in a statute to the GGB, strict criteria must be met. The common denominators of all statutes are extremism and the intention of violence. All persons in the GGB must have a solid link with Belgium. If one of the criteria, which are also laid down by law, is no longer met, the person concerned shall be removed from the GGB. I would like to stress once again the importance of community policing. The work of neighbourhood inspectors is essential in order to detect and combat radicalism at an early stage. We often see links between radicalism and crime. In order to detect signs of radicalisation at an early stage, we need to focus in the coming years on initiatives that make the occupation of neighbourhood inspector more attractive and thus contribute to strengthening the relationship between the police and the citizen. This is also why various actions have been undertaken within the Federal Police to promote diversity within the organization. Particular attention is paid to the sociocultural minorities to which the police want to offer a better chance of passing the selection tests by taking preliminary training. Diversity is also addressed in the various recruitment campaigns. The police ensure non-discrimination in recruitment and until the end of the career. It strives to implement an inclusive personnel policy and wants to be a reflection of the society it serves. I would also like to say a few words about crisis management, emergency planning and aid. During the initial moments of each crisis or during an emergency there is chaos. That's normal. First of all, it is necessary for people to be informed about an emergency situation and for each partner involved in crisis management to know exactly what the tasks and expectations are when a crisis situation occurs. In order to inform citizens of an emergency, the National Crisis Centre has rolled out BE-Alert since June 2017. Today, 85% of all municipalities have joined and more than 946,000 addresses have been registered by citizens. The Crisis Centre remains committed to the development of BE-Alert to maximize the range when alerting. In its first interim report, the Committee of Inquiry looked at crisis management and aid and noted that the aid workers had done excellent work in terrible circumstances. However, the structures in which they had to operate were not always optimal. A crisis situation is often accompanied by an influx of calls from emergency power stations. For emergency power stations and emergency control room 112 work will be done on a top provincial architecture. This is important, because it will make it possible to transfer calls to other emergency power stations 112 within the same language region, so that they can handle the calls. Recommendations have also been made to improve communication in the event of an emergency. ASTRID, the operator that enables police, firefighters and other emergency services to communicate efficiently, improved the distribution of the radio network by building about 30 additional cell towers. The capacity of the radio network itself has also been structurally strengthened. Astrid's business plan provides for the future development, deployment and operation of a broadband radio network for emergency and security services based on LTE 5G. ASTRID also plans to roll out its own national core network that will activate all the functionalities needed for the critical applications of the future. Emergency power stations and ASTRID have also evolved enormously in recent years. In order to promote cooperation and complementarity, a Memorandum of Understanding was concluded in 2018 according to which emergency plants 112 and 101 must be hosted on a single site. In several provinces, emergency power plants 112 and 101 are already installed in the same building. As the committee rightly pointed out, codification was necessary because the legal basis for emergency planning was too fragmented. This codification project was launched in 2019 within the Crisis Centre, taking into account the lessons learned, among other things, from the events of 22 March 2016. In each contingency plan, the basic structures and core missions must be the same, regardless of risk. This must then be translated into procedures, training and exercises. Due to the current covid pandemic, work has fallen behind, but work continues. Our security architecture has also been strengthened by the further development and modernisation of the National Crisis Centre. On the basis of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry, a new vision for the National Crisis Centre was proposed and approved. The Crisis Centre is moving towards a multidisciplinary, inter-departmental and inter-regional crisis centre, with strong links to bilateral and multilateral international risk and security management. The organizational structure was completely redesigned, from a pyramidal and secluded structure to a transversal working organization. The staffing capacity was increased and will be completed in 2021. The plans and needs analysis for the new structure have been ready for a long time. This is being accelerated by the current government. Technological developments such as ICMS, BE-Alert and the GeoNAVO tool are further developed and will evolve and be integrated into the new platform Paragon. In substance, the Crisis Centre is now proactively working on the full risk cycle rather than just reactive. Following the attacks of 22 March, the Civilian Security Knowledge Centre developed the training for the Casualty Extraction Team to train the fire department in the context of terrorist attacks. This was done in conjunction with the National Police Academy, the Special Forces of the Federal Police and Defence. At present 160 firefighters have been trained and operational, including the adapted equipment. Two training courses were also developed for all firefighters, namely terror awareness and tactical emergency casualty care. These courses were added to the initial training courses, but can of course also be followed as continuing training in any Belgian fire school. To conclude, I would like to say the following. With the exception of a number of targets in our country, which remain below level 3, we are still at threat level 2, which is the average threat level. It is also clear, however, that in recent years there has been a cultural change in the services, which means that we are better armed against all forms of terrorism. We learned lessons from what happened to us on March 22, 2016 but there is still a lot of work on the board. We continue to work on a more effective and robust security chain to best protect our society. After all, we must continue to protect ourselves collectively against the illusion of zero risk. Despite all the efforts and initiatives of the thousands of people and actors on the ground, we must never lose sight of this on a daily basis. We owe this to ourselves, and it is also the most appropriate way to honour all the victims and their families and friends in any way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u7	Madam President, I think we should have a report from this meeting, particularly because the minister spoke very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u8	Of course, we'll have an integral report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u9	That's perfect, Madam President. Madam and Mr Ministers, first of all, thank you for being here today. Both of you felt that a lot of work had been done, but that we had not come out of the difficulties, since there was still a threat to our country. We must take it very seriously. I am a little concerned about the way in which the proceedings were organized in the House. You know that this is the first time since November 2019 that we are again looking at the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. It has therefore been more than 15 months since we carried out this task. I had asked for the establishment of a commission to follow up on the terrorist attacks. My request was not accepted by the majority. I regret this and still do not understand why this monitoring committee has not been set up. I think it's a mistake. You have again noticed today how much we need to follow these recommendations - cross-cuttingly, because other ministers are also involved. We would like to hear from associations and the security services. This work must be done. I hear this date isn't cosmetic. On December 4, the Speaker of the House sent a letter to the Prime Minister. We meet in haste this 19th of March, because I recalled the promise of this meeting. We see each other quickly, for two hours. This is a start for this long-term mission, but I mean that we are not abandoning the work that has been carried out or the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry, because we must ensure that they can be carried out. My remark is general, but it is important. A second meeting is scheduled next week, but I hear, Madam President, that we are finding a format that will allow us to work on all of these issues. Some relate to different aspects, which you both discussed. I shall repeat them on the basis of the chapters of the report of our committee of inquiry. First of all, with regard to the victims, I have heard the Minister of Justice. The Minister of the Interior also addressed the issue. I heard your words of empathy. It was important to recall that, five years later, the victims were still in a situation of great fragility and distress. You and I, and probably others here, have contacts with some of these victims. It should not be forgotten that many of them are still experiencing situations of great distress. Mr.Minister of Justice, you say that Parliament did not accept in the bill the idea of a guarantee fund, as proposed by Ms.Onkelinx and myself, because I had co-signed this amendment. I still regret it. There is now a mechanism to compensate victims on a case-by-case basis and relatively quickly, but it must be noted that this does not meet the demands of the victims. In fact, we must first of all note that this is not going very quickly. For example, a royal decree already needs to recognize the attack situation. Depending on the attacks in the past, it took between two and six months to recognize some of the attacks. Here I have the details of how long it took to do this. It takes time! For Liège, it took two months before a royal decree came out. This means that, during those two months, we cannot intervene through emergency funds. Then it's an advance. It is therefore not a compensation or an amount that is paid. I would point out that, for example, in the Nice bombings, France released EUR 12,000 per victim within a few days, without asking for any justification. It is true that it is complicated to ask for evidence. In one case, psychiatric care will be urgently provided. In another case, it will be a matter of being able to stop working. In another case, it will simply be to bring his mother back from abroad, etc. This is what victims are asking for through this guarantee fund, i.e. automatic help for all victims very quickly. This does not yet exist. I regret that, and I believe that Parliament and the government must continue to work on this idea, especially since the funds currently provided are limited to EUR 125,000 per victim. And, therefore, in some cases, where there are serious disability problems or related to the victim's situation, this amount may not be sufficient. This is a first problem with the guarantee fund. Always with regard to the victims, as you said, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u10	Mr Dallemagne, as you joined us a little later, I would like to recall what we agreed, since the minister must leave us at 2:00 p.m. We agreed that we would first ask the questions to Minister Verlinden, who will answer them. Secondly, the questions addressed to Mr. Van Quickenborne and, on Tuesday, the global debate will be held. On the other hand, two inquiries still need to be developed today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u11	So I'm gonna try to abbreviate. With regard to relief, which concerns Mrs Verlinden, I am well aware of the various advances that have taken place. There are still important problems. You pointed them out. The question is that of posts 112, which today continue to have difficulties in communicating with each other. I mean, for example, that posts 112 in Flemish Brabant and those in Brussels continue to use different software which cannot communicate the situation of victims and transfers. I would have wanted to know when this problem would finally be resolved. It has already been stressed exactly five years ago and is still not settled today! About Astrid communication systems, you said there was a reinforcement. I can hear you. One of the problems that had been identified at the time was the training of staff. Many emergency personnel were not adequately trained and were not able to use these systems; I would have wanted to know whether these systems were now finally accessible and whether there was finally training for staff in this regard. With regard to the police forces, Madam Minister, and the intelligence services, the Minister of Justice also insisted on this point, the question of cooperation arises first. That was indeed an essential element, and you said how much the situation has changed today. I think that is true, the situation has changed to some extent. The difficulties persist in some cases, since, very recently, the expert of the Committee of Inquiry told us last year that in reality there were still significant difficulties in the field of communication. I quote Mr Bruggeman: "What is worrying is that, in the meantime, the unwillingness of the services to exchange information spontaneously turns out to be growing again". We seem to have a less positive picture, less optimistic than the one you have described in terms of communication. The joint decisions and joint information centres that had been planned in all judicial districts to deal with terrorism still exist only in Brussels! Five years after the attacks, we still have these centres only in Brussels! This means that in other judicial districts dealing with terrorism, there are always difficulties in cooperating between intelligence services, police services and, where appropriate, magistrates. In any case, these arrangements which were provided for by our committee of inquiry are still not in place. The Bank Carrefour de sécurité still does not exist either. There is also a significant difficulty. As far as budgetary means are concerned, both of you have been very quick on this issue. You say that substantial resources are dedicated to security, but I note that for the police, there has been a reduction of 135 million euros in the 2021 budget compared to the 2020 budget, and that the 2021 budget for intelligence services is 56 million euros compared to 50 million euros in 2015, which means that in constant euros it has not moved. In constant euros, the budget of Belgian intelligence services has not moved in six years! The recommendation of the commission of inquiry, however, was that the intelligence services of other countries should be brought up to the level and that the amounts allocated to them should be doubled. We're a long way from it! Here too, there is a major difficulty and we are far from the optimistic picture you have in terms of police and intelligence resources. It's a major difficulty. With regard to radicalization, I note that five years after the attacks, we still have no outline or solution for the Great Mosque. I had placed a great deal of emphasis on this issue. I know that the Minister of Justice is working on it, but it is five years later and we still have no scenario that corresponds to the recommendations of the committee of inquiry, that is to say to have an Islam of Belgium that is managed by Belgian Muslims for this emblematic place. That's a problem. You both noted the issue of radicalism in prison. There have been clear advances and improvements, but the information I receive about those convicted of terrorism and who leave prison – there were sixty between 2020 and 2021, if my information is correct – indicates that there is police follow-up but that there is no effort in terms of reintegration and deradicalization. This is a major flaw. This information comes from judges who follow these questions. They tell me that there is police follow-up, but that there is still an important problem in the follow-up of those people who are leaving prison. Madam President, I'm going to stay there for now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u12	Mr Dallemagne, thank you very much. I had prepared for your five questions. If I listened correctly, you first referred to your last question about emergency power plants. To answer this question, I can tell you that the development of this electronic window 1722 is currently in its last straight line. In February 2021, a first test was organised in collaboration with the rescue areas of East Flanders. Over a quarter of an hour, more than 600 requests for intervention were sent to the firefighters' alert terminal. At the end of March, early April 2021, a user test will be organised with the help of some of the interior FPS personnel. The purpose of this test is to check whether the window is quite user-friendly and intuitive. If necessary, it will be adapted. At the same time, connectivity tests will be carried out to check whether every request made via the e-commerce is coming to the emergency area concerned. The e-window will be operational by the end of June this year. The development of a supra-provincial structure has experienced some difficulties. The applications that need to support and assist operators in handling emergency calls are very complex. In different tests, some problems surfaced. But here too, development is in its last straight line. Soon, the first migration from a 112 plant to this new supraprovincial structure may take place. The migration of all 112 plants to this new structure is scheduled for mid-2022. In 2020, 63 new 101 calltakers and 112 operators have already been recruited. This year, new selection procedures will be launched. A first procedure is already under way. The aim is to fill the personnel cadres of all 112 and 101 emergency plants as quickly as possible. However, as already mentioned in the Committee on the Interior, it must always be borne in mind that, for some provinces, it is more difficult to find enough candidates. However, my administration continues to explore other possible recruitment avenues such as the first job agreement. The selection procedures that are or will be launched are no longer organised by the Region but by grouping several provinces except obviously for the Brussels-Capital Region. More provincially oriented selection could attract more candidates. After the 2021 selections, the situation will be assessed. I have asked my administration to give priority to the shortage of personnel in emergency plants 112 and 101. Discussions on the standardization of reporting and functional structures are undesirable when initial needs, including the availability of sufficient staff to handle appeals, are not met. That said, this point of attention will not be abandoned. With regard to the ASTRID network, the recommendations of the commission of inquiry into the attacks have been implemented. The coverage of the radio network has been improved by the construction of some 30 additional radio masts. The sites selected for these new masts are those identified as priorities by the Consultative Committee of Users, which brings together different disciplines. As planned, the capacity of the radio network has also been structurally strengthened. Since May 2018, a real-time monitoring tool for the capacity of the radio network allows you to monitor the situation on the network closely. This tool also activates the additional capacity. To do this, ASTRID can use a series of additional Defence radio frequencies. In addition, a second compact vehicle with satellite technology was put into operation. This vehicle temporarily enhances the capacity on a site. ASTRID has two vehicles that can be deployed simultaneously. At the training level, the TETRA-SYM solution has been designed. This e-learning software is a computer-assisted learning system and can be used remotely by users as part of their training and training. It is centralized at ASTRID and is available for emergency and security services. With regard to the radio apparatus and the proper use of the various communication groups, the organisations that use it are responsible for the implementation of this tool within their organisation. As a result of the attacks, a new version of the Blue Light Mobile (BLM) data service was deployed integrating voice service as well as priority and preventive access to the Proximus network, particularly for key functions of emergency plans. As of December 31, 2020, 7,355 BLM SIM cards were in service. The BLM solution is reserved only for Category 1 users, as set out in ASTRID's management contract, i.e. mainly for traditional emergency and security services. ASTRID recently presented us with the most important elements of its corporate plan, including the development, deployment and operation of a broadband radio network for relief and security services based on LT5G standards. ATRID plans to deploy its own national network core that will enable all the necessary features for tomorrow's critical applications. This new plan proposes to use the masts, antennas and frequency spectrum of commercial operators. In addition to its economic advantage, this hybrid model, complemented by commercial mobile network masts, will allow the public authority to maintain the control, security, confidentiality and sovereignty of critical communications. In case of network interruption, ASTRID sends an email to the Crisis Center and confirms this email by phone. The Crisis Centre verifies that all ASTRID correspondents have been informed. If ASTRID only sent the e-mail and only for technical reasons the telephone message was not broadcast, then the Crisis Centre informs the Civil Protection operational units by telephone of the beginning and end of the problem. If ASTRID is unable to inform its customers by e-mail, SMS or telephone about the problem, the Crisis Centre must inform certain instances by fax. In the event of a federal phase or any other situation requiring coordination with ASTRID, ASTRID will provide reports on the availability of the network.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u13	Madam President, I did not ask my questions in order because I thought we were in a general debate. So for a smooth debate, I will turn my other questions into written questions because they are sometimes very technical. It'll be more interesting for everyone. Anyway, thank you, minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u14	We shall now proceed to the questions to the Minister of Justice. He's largely already given all the answers. So you choose whether to ask an additional question or to replicate it immediately. You have the floor first, Mr Pivin.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u15	Ministers, as you know, the government agreement clearly provides for the implementation of all the conclusions of the committee of inquiry. In addition, the Conference of Presidents had sent a formal request to the Government for a postponement last December. I would like to thank both of you and the Prime Minister for responding to this meeting. The recommendations of the bombing commission, in which I sat, date from October 26, 2017. They are the result of multiple reflections and testimonies from victims, police officers, emergency workers and experts. They were adopted unanimously by the democratic parties that made up the committee. Many initiatives have been taken to implement these recommendations over the past three and a half years. As proof, I want 620 pages of report sent to us - 620 pages of precise information and technical data. That is why I would like to make a methodological remark at the outset. I would like all these documents to be provided to us in both languages. This is far from the case, but it is a necessity - and that is how the bombing committee worked. I insist, and I will not be the only one, on this point. Much has been done, but much remains to be done - so in the fight against radicalism, which the Minister of Justice has mentioned at length and with good reason. We can see, five years later, how much it was necessary to add this element to the task of the committee of inquiry. As an example of the challenges that remain, I will mention the list of weak signals, proselytism in prisons, the evaluation of the DERADEX sections, the effectiveness of the deradicalization programmes. Indeed, radicalism remains a challenge for our society - and confinement does not help. In this connection, I would like to point out that my colleague Denis Ducrame and I have tabled a bill on both the apology of terrorism and the dissolution of liberticide groups and associations. These are proposals that also respond to the recommendations of the bombing commission. Another key issue is monitoring and information. This is also prevention. Strengthening the services of the PJ, the Sûreté de l'Etat, the OCAM, the SGRS; reorganizing the management of the Great Mosque; international police cooperation or strengthening the PNR are some examples of aspects to which answers have been given, but for which it is still essential to continue the work. This surveillance to protect us from terrorist risks also involves the surveillance of "ex-detainees", if I may say so. I would like to remind you that in this regard too, a bill has been tabled by us on the extension of the provision of the penalty for the PAT, in the face of the risk of recidivism. All these illustrations, Minister, Minister, show that much remains to be done, which is our responsibility, which also requires us to continue to monitor and support the efforts undertaken. These efforts must also, by the way, integrate health skills, emergency care and medical care services. At the outset, I would like to say that if the present way of working together in committees proved not to be sufficiently satisfactory, a real monitoring committee would have to be set up. I say it very cordially, but also very clearly. Beyond tributes, commemorations and speeches, there is of course the daily experience of all the victims and their families. We must continue to care for all those people who, like all Belgians, must regret that five years after the facts, the authors' trial has not yet started. The Single Window, the specific victim status, the deadlines for first financial support, are reforms that have been implemented by the previous government. But at this level too, there is work, and it is precisely on this subject that I tabled five questions for the attention of the Minister of Justice, who partly answered the first two questions. I'll call them back. First question: I ask you whether Belgian or foreign victims are still awaiting compensation or recognition of certain specific statutes allowing them to grant public aid. You have confirmed that unfortunately there are still people waiting for compensation. I have not heard that the question of the recognition of specific statutes has been raised. The second question is: what about the mechanism for subrogation of the State with regard to insurance? The French system had been discussed at length. Of course, for my part, I am aware of the decision that has been made to abandon it for a number of reasons that no longer need to be mentioned here. On the other hand, raising the aid ceilings, which I also know, is part of a system of advances. What about the system also mentioned in the Monitoring Committee, which was the "cascade" system that the Minister of Economy Peeters had addressed at one point also during the previous parliamentary term? The third question is: what about the unique expertise of the compensation procedure? Is this system, which simplifies the process of expertise, now effective? Is he legally supervised? I don't think that's the case. Question 4: What about the recurring request made by the associations to draw up a list of all the victims of the same attack? Is this list effective? Is it the federal prosecutor's office that has the management and responsibility? Question 5: What measures have been taken in the framework of consultations with the federated entities to modify a succession law mechanism which was of great concern to us at the time, given the variety of systems established in Belgium between the different regions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u16	Mrs. Dillen, you had submitted an interview.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u17	Minister, I have listened carefully to your speech and Minister Verlinden's speech. Thank you for your comments. There is still a lot of substance in it to start a discussion next week, but I would like to express some reservations. On Monday we are indeed commemorating, unfortunately in minor, the terrorist attacks of five years ago. Minister, the headlines and media reports of the past few days do not lie. Let me give you some examples and quotes. "The government has left the survivors of the attacks to their fate." "My 2.5-year battle with the federal police for my doctor's bills has mentally cracked me more than that terrorist's bullet. I urgently needed an eye surgery. There was a chance I'd go blind, but the medical staff of the federal police said heavy glasses would work too. I've paid for the surgery myself." "No one has ever said thank you. I didn't want a movie. Just a simple thank you. But nothing's come, nothing's come. I'm still waiting.", declared a member of the Special Forces of the Federal Police that was himself shot by the terrorists of Brussels and Paris. This morning we heard on the radio: "A pat on the back, a thank you couldn't get off." That was a statement from one of the paramedics. Minister, these are just some of the many poignant testimonies we have been able to read or hear in the media in recent days. Many victims have been particularly disappointed by the way in which they have been treated after the facts by the government, the court or the administration. It is clear that the government failed to inform the victims correctly after the attacks. There were no special brochures containing all the necessary and useful information. There was no central information point where the victims and relatives could face all their medical, legal and administrative problems. There was no training for the general practitioners who had to follow victims. The survivors were really left to their fate. The fact that the dossier is dragging on for so long is also completely incomprehensible to many people. The court proceedings are still pending. If I understand correctly, it will only start in the second half or the third quarter of next year because we have to wait for the statements in the procedure around the Bataclan. I'm sure you'll improve on me if I've misunderstood. The search of many victims for financial compensation was a real torment. Here too, the government has not done enough to assist the victims. Five years after the attacks, many victims are still fighting for the compensation they are entitled to. According to Assuralia, the dome of insurers, EUR 50 million has been paid out to 1,412 victims and EUR 70 million is still standing aside. According to an estimate from 2016, EUR 118 million should be paid out. Then the insurers are doing something that they have been doing for so long, i.e. minimising the problems of keeping benefits as low as possible and prolonging procedures. We could read that the rates of disability that some victims received are ridiculous. People who lost their job because they couldn't handle their job physically and mentally, had to move heaven and earth to be declared ocharm 5 % invalid. The result is, and that will not surprise you, that the victims are letting down the courage. Victims deserve quick, fair and equitable treatment of their files, both by the government and by insurance companies. I'm afraid they didn't get it. In an opinion piece from a few days ago in Het Laatste Nieuws we read: "The Michael government did what it was strong at making vague promises and letting civilians be lost in a labyrinth of administrations." The parliamentary committee of inquiry has examined the attacks and a number of important recommendations have been made. You have just given an overview of what has been done since the report. The recommendations did not fall into deaf ears, you said. Indeed, several initiatives have been taken, I acknowledge that. I should like to address you, Madam President. I hope that by next Tuesday we will be able to get the full text of the statements made by the ministers so that we can re-examine everything in detail. Unfortunately, two important recommendations have not been implemented. The first is the elaboration of the guarantee fund. That has been the theme of many victims' associations for many years. The victim's fund would immediately pay the victims, after which the State would have to find out which insurer to recover from. Unfortunately, the insurance sector does not seem to be in favour of this system. The government has caved in to that guy from the insurance business. The result is that the guarantee fund is not available. However, it is an important recommendation. You stated that another solution was chosen, namely the Commission on Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Violence, which also has a section on terrorism. It is indeed a fact, you referred to, that in 2019 the ceiling was raised from 30,000 euros to 125,000 euros. The reasoning now appears to be that this is the solution to the recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry. Minister, it is a fact that the Commission can deal with the questions of the victims of the attacks. No judicial decision is required. The victims must not even have lodged a complaint or have filed a bourgeois party. The Commission can grant equitable aid but does not guarantee full compensation. We must not forget that there is a financial limit to EUR 125 000, which is not enough for all victims. That emergency aid is not the same for everyone either. Not everyone gets 125,000 euros, even if the damage is much higher. That is not the correct implementation of the clear recommendation. The increased emergency aid does not correspond to this. Therefore, the victims are right to find it revenge-provoking. Minister, I come to another important recommendation, which has still not been implemented, namely a unique point of contact where all victims can go to medical, financial and legal questions. On paper, that window was worked out in 2018. You referred to that as well. However, it only exists on paper, in practice it is still not there three years later. You announced that there will be two unique escorts. As a principle, that may be a good thing, but I have two reservations. Firstly, two people, if I understand correctly a Dutch language and a French language, are absolutely insufficient to be able to process such a large number of dossiers and to assist all those people. Secondly, the appointment of these two persons cannot be equated with the introduction of the promised guarantee fund and the unique window and should not be an excuse for this. I therefore conclude with a quote from an undisputed indictment of investigative journalist Jeroen Bossaert in Het Laatste Nieuws a few days ago. "At least one survivor of the attacks does not submit to the tampering of insurers, governments and governments, and has brought the Belgian State to justice and demands better treatment for himself, his peers and all future victims of terror. His action is a disgrace to the country. If we do not yet succeed in making the survivors of one of the greatest tragedies in Belgian history feel that they have been treated fairly, then this country is not crippled, but dying. Belgium has not been able to properly absorb and care for its battered and traumatized citizens in the last five years. Let us not forget that when the parade is over and we turn our heads again on 23 March." Again, these are not my words, but those of a renowned journalist. I have formulated several questions, which I will not all pass. For my questions, I refer to the written text of my interpretation, as tabled. I have already received answers to a number of questions, or I hope to be able to read the answer in the text we are receiving from the Minister. I would like to ask for further clarification on two matters. First of all, why is the guarantee fund not there? Can you describe the exact reasons? The Commission for Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Violence, Department of Terrorism, under the FPS Justice Department, is an opportunity that most people don't know. In addition, the committee shall have time limits within which the application must be submitted. In the case of ordinary files, this period is three years, which is a relatively short period, given the size and complexity of the files and also the fact that not only Belgians but also foreigners are involved. Will you look at this carefully, so that nothing can go wrong there too, so that the victims and/or their relatives do not suffer a statute of limitations? A maximum amount of EUR 125 000 is also provided for, as I mentioned in my speech. That is what my final question is about. What will you do if the actual damage is much higher? Will it not be ensured that fair compensation is not granted, but that compensation is paid to all victims, in accordance with the actual damage suffered, and, of course, also linked to moral compensation? Secondly, I would like to ask you about the unique window. It already exists on paper. When can we expect it to be operational in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u18	For the sake of clarity, an Integrated Report is being prepared for this sitting, which may be available to Members today, or at the latest on Monday. Minister Verdonden must leave our meeting. I call Mr Boukili.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u19	Minister, I listened carefully to you today. You tell us, "In the meantime, we have learned a lot. A parliamentary commission of inquiry produced a 1,000-page report with an important section for victims. An inter-federal task force was established by the former Minister of Justice." Following a question I asked you in February, you also said that working groups had been set up. I must say that I do not agree with your analysis of the lessons learned and the application that followed. Indeed, I mean more of a falsification of the truth and reality experienced by the victims of the attacks. Already, few working groups have actually been formed. In any case, this has not changed the situation of the victims. The only possible observation to date is that Belgium has not followed the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. Follow-up was more than partial. The Belgian State has not responded to the various difficulties encountered by the victims of terrorism. Belgium does not even fulfil the minimum of its obligations by informing victims of their rights and by providing them with adequate assistance, in accordance with the European Directive 2012/29, which I advise you to read again. Maybe she'll inspire you. I've been asking you about this case for weeks. When I asked you, on 22 February, about the urgent recommendations of May 2017 of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry concerning the creation of a guarantee fund to act as a one-stop shop and the establishment of a single expertise against all the interlocutors, you replied that the one-stop shop had been set up with the prosecutor's office, whose victim cell had been strengthened by the recruitment of three people. Three people, Minister! This answer indicates that you do not understand the entire subject matter. The window you are reporting on is ultimately only an information window. In addition, this window does not concern victims of 22 March 2016. He's for future victims. We are talking here about the victims of the attacks of 2016. When the Commission made its recommendation, it clearly specified "a window on the French model", i.e. a genuine guarantee fund in order to limit the multiplication of the procedures and avoid forcing the victim to address himself to public and private organisations responsible for indemnifying him. After hell, it was injustice that took place in the families. The victims of the attacks of 22 March 2016 have been left in the hands of insurance companies who are only thinking of making profit. They have been fighting and filing appeals for five years to enforce their rights. Five years, Minister, and it's not over yet! What I think, in view of the press this morning, is that when you answered this to me in February, you were already making the final decision not to set up a guarantee fund for the victims. You had the idea at the time, but you didn't give me that answer at that time. You say that this point was put to the vote at the time in committee and that it was rejected. It should also be clarified why it was rejected. It was because the parties of the majority at the time, the government of Sweden of which your group was a member, voted against this recommendation. Today, you repeat your announcement to abandon this idea. When you say that this point was rejected, it must be made clear that your party also rejected it with Sweden. Minister, I do not know if you are really aware that this decision is a real disaster for families. On 10 February, you also told me that a pragmatic solution would be sought so that, in the event of terrorist attacks, all victims could be compensated in an efficient and respectful manner. At the very least, you suggest that you recognize that the current compensation procedure is neither efficient nor respectful of the victims, but as I understand it, the work and actions taken are more relevant to future victims of attacks than those of March 22, 2016. That's what I understood. I hope to have a clarification on this. Minister, these untenable comments are in addition to your refusal to implement the recommendations of the committee of inquiry on the guarantee fund contained in the government agreement. This means that in making this decision, you do not even respect the government's agreement to implement the recommendations of the commission of inquiry. These recommendations include the creation of the Guarantee Fund. Minister, you are serving a triple sentence for the victims. There was first the horror of the attacks of 22 March 2016, then the follow-up is catastrophic in a struggle that has lasted for five years and finally, you abandon them by declaring that you are not going to set up this guarantee fund. In the press, you justify this choice by saying that another solution was chosen under the previous legislature. You say you have raised the emergency aid ceiling allocated by the Commission from EUR 30 000 to EUR 125 000. Mr Minister, this increase in the ceiling does not change anything since, in practice, victims must first turn to insurance and, above all, this increase in the ceiling has no impact on the number of procedures and procedures described by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. Minister, you also mention that you are working on an amendment to the Act to ensure that all victims are compensated, whether insured or not. However, victims will always be obliged to run behind insurance, the Commission for Financial Assistance to Victims of Intentional Acts of Violence or the Federal Pension Service for the award of a compensation pension. There is therefore no limit on the number of experts and no limit on the number of contacts. It's not just physical and moral damage. There are many other types of damage: household damage, assistance from a third party, economic damage, aesthetic damage, loss of permission, loss of schooling. And you limit your choices! I wonder if you really understand what is at stake in this case. Minister, I am angry, and I am not the only one! I can assure you that the families and associations, including Life for Brussels, that I have met, are also. They listen to you today and expect you to understand the urgency of their situation and the reality they are experiencing. Make commitments today! Return to this decision not to create guarantee funds! Come back on this decision today! Get involved with specific guidelines! This case must be closed by 22 March 2022. We don't have to drag anymore, it's already been five years and it's already too much! Minister, everything remains to be done on the guarantee fund, on the single expertise, on the appointment of a single interlocutor between victims and insurance companies and other private operators, on the increase of the period of foreclosure or on the financial assistance for the assistance of a lawyer during the criminal trial. Your predecessor had taken the initiative to establish an inter-federal task force and it is your duty to re-establish it in view of the magnitude of the work still to be done. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u20	The only thing that is not quite clear to me is the relationship with the unique window. I understand this is for the future, if a new attack happens. As far as coaches and the new project you are talking about are concerned, I assume they are also there for the victims of 22 March and not just for the future. I understand that these coaches will not only be used for the human side, but will also be the intermediary for going through the various administrative steps towards insurance and others.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u21	Mr Notens, I understand that you have your question No. 55015448C next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u22	Madam President, I have tried in my speech to answer as many questions as possible. I would now like to give some specific replies, but I understand that Mr Geens will be asking his question next week. Of course, I agree with the wishes of the members of the committee, but I would like to discuss in detail next week the very pertinent remarks made by my fellow Members and have a good debate on them. It seems to me advisable that Mr Verlinden should also be present at that time. I want to take my time. I suggest that colleagues who could not be here today should give us their questions. You can then combine them from the committee. I think this is better. If one insists on doing so now, I would be happy to replicate it punctually, but perhaps it would be better to do so next week, for the generality of the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u23	All we have to do is deal with the interplays today because motions have been tabled, and that has to be done within a certain period of time. So you can answer as specific or as broad as you want, as long as we can complete the interviews.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u24	Is that Mrs. Dillen's conversation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u25	Mrs Dillen and Mr Boukili.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u26	Mrs Dillen, you have heard my answers, but perhaps I will reflect briefly on what you have said about legal proceedings and their duration. It is a deliberate decision of the Belgian Justice to conduct the handling and the process itself after the case in Paris on the attack in Bataclan, because there is a very large interlinkage between the two cases. There are suspects in the file in France as well as in ours. That is why it was a decision of the Justice Department to deal with it after the Paris case. That explains why we normally want to conduct the assistance process in Brussels in September 2022, in Justitia, the building of NATO's former headquarters. Several of you, including Mr Boukili, have asked questions about the fund and the whole debate. I have listened carefully to what you have said and have read the recommendations made by the Committee of Inquiry. When I read the recommendations, it does not say that the government should introduce a guarantee fund like France did. I quoted literally what the committee said at the time, and I also referred to the parliamentary work which therefore took place. The choice of subrogation is a choice made by the government. Had a fund been created then, it would probably have taken far too long to activate it. At that time, a majority in Parliament was right to choose the formula of subrogation. As a result, advance payments could be made immediately and the insurance company did not have to wait for a decision to be taken. So that was a conscious choice. The coalition agreement does not mention the installation of a fund. However, we want to amend the law of 2007. Mr Dermagne will close the gaps in the law on insurance against damage caused by terrorism. Through the subrogation, the Financial Aid Commission performs excellent work on Victims of Intentional Violence. I have met many victims and victims' associations who repeatedly praised the work of this committee. I mentioned two names in my speech and they speak for themselves. The unique window has been installed in the meantime and will enter into force if an attack has taken place, just days after the calamity. You know that if something happens, the crisis centre will also come into operation. A few days later, the single point of contact will enter into force. The single point of contact was indeed strengthened with a few people. We are talking about more than the people Mr Boukili referred to. Madam President, it might be a good idea to invite the magistrate who manages that window to this committee. It can then explain exactly what these changes mean and what that will mean. I think I have answered Mrs Dillen's most important questions. I also think I have answered Mr Boukili's questions about the Single Window and the victims. I have the greatest understanding for the victims. We have had to experience to our great shame what the faults were. Very good work has been done by Mr Geens. Many steps have been taken, but of course it is also a learning process. It is explicit at the request of a recognised victim association that we will now identify victim coaches. They also explicitly asked for two coaches and one person in the back office. That was their question. They didn't ask for ten people, they asked for three. Coaches go on site with the people. The person in the back office will contact the central counter. The central window will work for the future. Coaches will also be responsible for past victims, not only for the victims of the attacks of 22 March, but also for other victims. You know that people abroad have also been victims of a terrorist attack. Those coaches will be at their disposal, too. I understand, of course, that there are people who are still individually struggling with insurance and unresolved problems, among other things. I hope that we will be able to help those people through the coaches. More than that, it's not just about the financial. It's also about people begging for recognition. I believe that the coaches will also be able to give them that recognition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u27	Do you have another reply, Mrs. Dillen?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u28	Madam President, Minister, I hope that next week we will have an opportunity to go into more detail. I now have two brief reservations. I do not doubt the excellent work that the Commission has done on the victims. In another capacity, I have already called on that Commission on a regular basis, and it is indeed doing a very good job. I just warned you about two things. Firstly, the ceiling is EUR 125 000. For a number of victims that will be sufficient, but not for all, I'm afraid. Will you think about that again? Secondly, the deadline is in principle three years. Will these dossiers be dealt with separately? I understand that the Justice Department wants to wait for the statements in Paris on the Bataclan file. Our process here in Belgium will then begin in September 2022. I just hope that in the long term this will not be an argument for the defence to point out the long duration of the trial, with only a declaration of guilt and no punishment. I am free to refer here to the case law in this area and also to European legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answers. You say that we do not have the same reading of the paragraph. What is the point of making recommendations if each minister interprets them in his or her own way? The recommendations say exactly that this fund is needed. I am basing myself on the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry and on the letter sent by the victims that we have all received here. The claims of this letter are the same as those of the commission of inquiry. They must be taken into account. What has been put in place so far has not worked. It was a disaster! Have you spoken to any victims? Did you meet them? I did. It's amazing! When I heard their stories, I had the ball in my stomach. It is incredible that, in a country like Belgium, these victims had experienced such a situation for five years. It's unthinkable! I didn't think I was living in a country that was so dysfunctional. Today, I am told to learn lessons for the future, but now it is necessary to act for those victims who have experienced the horror of March 22. I hope that there will be no further attacks in the future, but we must take precautions and give answers now. Minister, I'll give you a second chance. Your group has voted against this fund in the past. You are planning to withdraw this project. I therefore raise a motion for a recommendation today in which I am merely respecting the recommendations of the committee of inquiry and the claims that were sent to us by the victims' association. The aim is to set up a new inter-federal task force to make effective the creation of a guarantee fund, the establishment of a single expertise and all the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry and to appoint immediately, in the meantime of the creation of a guarantee fund acting as a single window, a single contact person who will be responsible for relaying the victims to insurance companies or private bodies, so as not to leave them alone. There must be binding guidelines and a formal commitment that this matter will be fully closed by 22 March 2021. This has already lasted too long. We have to make decisions now. I hope that this time you will use your influence so that the majority will make the right choice and vote for these recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic418x.u30	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mrs Marijke Dillen and Mr Nabil Boukili and the Government's response, - considering that following the attacks, there were 22.03.2016 a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into "terrorist attacks" was established; - having regard to the numerous recommendations made by the abovementioned Committee of Inquiry; - whereas one of the main recommendations concerned compensation for victims of the attacks, recommending the establishment of a guarantee fund; - whereas it was thus proposed to establish a system whereby the authorities could immediately grant the victims of the attacks the necessary assistance and compensation, after which these amounts could be recovered from the insurance companies; - whereas, however, it was decided in the bosom of the government that there would be no guarantee fund for the victims of the terrorist acts of 22.03.2016; - whereas nothing prevents the Government from returning to its decision or a similar measure, which aims at the same result, to elaborate and to act; - considering that the creation of a unique point of contact where all victims and their relatives can address medical, legal and financial questions is also a recommendation, which was drawn up on paper in 2018 but still does not work in practice; asks the government to implement all the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on terrorist attacks, in particular the establishment of a guarantee fund, or to establish a similar arrangement which will prevent the victims of the attacks from remaining in the cold again, and to organise the unique window." A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mrs Marijke Dillen and Mr Nabil Boukili and the government's response, - Whereas a parliamentary committee of inquiry "terrorist attacks" was set up after the attacks of 22 March 2016; - Considering that this commission of inquiry has resulted in the formulation of many recommendations; - Considering that one of the main recommendations concerned compensation for the victims of the attacks and the creation of a guarantee fund; - Whereas it has thus been proposed to develop a system enabling the State to grant immediately the aid and compensation required for the victims of the attacks and then to recover these amounts from the insurers; - Whereas, however, the Government decided that no guarantee funds would be created for the victims of the terrorist acts of 22 March 2016; - Whereas nothing prevents the Government from reconsidering its decision or drawing up and implementing a similar measure aimed at achieving the same result; - Whereas one of the recommendations is to create a one-stop shop to which all victims and their families could address their questions relating to medical, legal and financial aspects and that this window, provided for in a 2018 document, is still not, in practice, functional; asks the government to implement all the recommendations made by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on terrorist attacks, in particular through the creation of a guarantee fund or the establishment of a comparable system to prevent the victims of the attacks from being abandoned again to their sad fate, and through the organisation of the single window." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mrs Marijke Dillen and Mr Nabil Boukili and the Government's response, - whereas on 22 March 2016, 32 deaths and more than 300 injuries occurred in the attacks in Brussels. Many other persons were severely affected by the attacks, such as the first aid workers, the families of the dead and wounded and the persons present at the sites of the attacks but not physically injured; - whereas, to date, the victims and their families are faced with very complex situations which delay their recovery, that nothing has been done to guide the first aid workers, that there are huge gaps in ensuring the optimum protection of their right to health, their right to access to justice, their right to truth and their right to effective and rapid compensation; - whereas to date, five years after the facts, nothing has been done to establish a single contact point or to allow for a single expertise or appeal procedure; - considering that the victims of terrorist acts under international instruments have the right to material, social, legal and psychological support and that the UN Special Rapporteur for Human Rights, following her visit to Belgium in 2018, indicated that she was extremely concerned about what the victims of 22 March experienced on a daily basis; - whereas these findings indicate that the measures are incomplete and, more generally, that the measures taken by the government are inadequate, and that this delay in helping the victims results in a phenomenon of secondary victimisation, which in turn is an additional source of disturbances and stress; - whereas the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, which finds that the victims of the attacks of 22 March 2016 are experiencing major difficulties due to a multitude of responding bodies, refers to this in its report to the Commission on Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Victims of Violence, "DG War', insurance companies, sickness funds, etc. (p. 10 DOC 54 1752/007 - 4 May 2017); - whereas the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry recommends that "Belgium should for the future develop a system that is to provide alternative assistance rather than subsidiary assistance, which requires the victim to turn himself to the public or private institutions responsible for compensating him/her for the creation of a fund which can provide the victim with assistance and compensation within the shortest possible time and which subsequently recovers from the insurance companies what they owe" (p. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 2000000. - whereas all foreign systems, which were examined in the annexes to the French report of February 2017, call for the need for a centralised structure (France), a federal service (Germany), a national insurance cash (Israel), a general management (Spain), a victim compensation service (Norway); - whereas the current single point of contact is, in the end, no more than a point of contact and that this point does not in any way provide a solution to the fact that the victims are forced to go to the insurance sector on a continuous basis, the Commission for Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Violence and the Federal Pension Service for the granting of a recovery pension; - whereas the parliamentary committee of inquiry recommends the establishment of a single expertise which is contrary to all the parties involved (Doc. 54-1752/007 p. 24 - 4 May 2017); - having regard to the urgency and importance of the human dimension of this dossier, asks the government - to set up a new interfederal task force with the task of establishing a guarantee fund and the establishment of a single expertise, as well as the implementation of all the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry; - immediately establish a single point of contact, pending the establishment of a guarantee fund serving as a "unit point," which will act as an intermediary between the victims and the insurance companies and the private institutions; - establish binding deadlines and formally undertake to complete this dossier by 22 March 2022." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu les interpellations de Mme Marijke Dillen et M. Nabil Boukili and the government's response, - Whereas on 22 March 2016, 32 people were killed in the Brussels attacks and more than 300 people were injured in Brussels. Many others were deeply affected by the attacks, including first responders, family members of those killed and injured and those caught in the attacks but not physically injured; Whereas victims and their families are still faced with inextricable situations which delay their reconstruction, that nothing has been put in place for the care of first responders, that huge gaps persist in the provision of guarantees for the optimal protection of their right to health, their right to access to justice, their right to the truth and their right to effective and prompt compensation; Whereas to date, five years after the facts, nothing has been done to allow for a single interlocutor, a single expert, a single appeal procedure; - Whereas, under international instruments, victims of terrorist acts are entitled to material, social, legal and psychological assistance and, following her visit to Belgium in 2018, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on human rights expressed deep concern at the daily experiences of the victims on 22 March; Whereas these findings are symptomatic of incomplete measures and, more generally, of insufficient measures taken by the Government and that this delay in assisting victims leads to a phenomenon of secondary victimization, a new source of unrest and stress; - Whereas the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry which states the importance of the difficulties faced by the victims of the attacks of 22 March 2016 due to the plurality of debtors of compensations such as "financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence, DGWar, insurance, mutuals, etc." (p. 10 DOC 54 1752/007 - 4 May 2017); - Whereas the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry recommends that "Belgium should establish a system which, instead of offering subsidiary aid which obliges the victim to apply itself to public or private bodies responsible for indemnifying him, provides for the creation of a fund which may allocate to him, within the shortest possible time, aids and allowances, responsible for recovering what is owed by the insurance companies" (p. 24 DOC 54 1752/007-4 May 2017); - Whereas all the foreign systems studied in the annexes to the French report of February 2017 stress the need for a centralised structure (France), a federal office (Germany), a national insurance fund (Israel), a Directorate-General (Spain), an office for the compensation of victims (Norway); Whereas the "one-stop shop" which currently exists is, in the end, only an information desk and does not regulate the obligation of victims to run, behind insurance, the commission for financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence and the Federal Pension Service for the award of a compensation pension; - Whereas the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry recommends that a single expertise be set up against all interlocutors (Doc. 1752/007 p. 24-4 May 2017); - considering the urgency and importance of the human dimension in this dossier; asks the government - establish a new inter-federal task force to make effective the creation of a guarantee fund and the establishment of a single expertise and all the recommendations of the parliamentary inquiry committee; - to designate, in the meantime, a guarantee fund to act as a "one-stop shop", immediately as a single contact person who will be responsible for relaying the victims to insurance companies and private bodies; - to provide for binding guidelines and to make a formal commitment that this matter will be fully closed by the next 22 March 2022." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels and Mrs Laurence Zanchetta and Mr Tim Vandenput and Mr Koen Geens. A simple motion was tabled by Katja Gabriëls and Laurence Zanchetta and MM. Tim Vandenput et Koen Geens. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
