ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u1	Mr President, I would like to refer to my written questions. 55015660C, 55015663C, 55015666C, 55015668C, 55015789C and 55016033C. I have another question about the measures that have recently been announced. Something had to be done, and we all agree on that. The hospitals also indicate it's all hands on deck. I still have questions about the choices that have been made. I would like to refer to one specific decision, in particular the selective closure of non-medical contact professions. I wonder exactly what that is based on. It's weird that they've only been open for three weeks. They were able to reopen on 1 March, to close a few weeks later. It seems to me that they cannot be responsible for the increase in contamination. Has the figures of autumn 2020 been taken back by the RSZ? This showed that beauty specialists and hairdressers were among the most infected professional groups. Do we have those numbers now? Where can we find it? Meanwhile, we're dealing with the new British variant. I wonder to what extent these figures still apply. Can they just be extrapolated? Furthermore, Professor Molenberghs said on 15 March that the reopening of hairdressers had no negative effect on the figures. It is strange that a moment later it appears that these professions should close down. What are the figures on which this closure is based? Where can we find those numbers? Do you intend to communicate these figures, including to the professional groups concerned, so that they too can see why it was necessary? I think this would also be a sign of respect for those professions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u2	Minister, I only have two brief questions. As you know, I'm mostly in charge of the care staff on this committee. They were informed by you exactly on the day of your care that the compensation premium for their protective equipment is suddenly to be determined, without further information, although it was fixed for this month. How could something like that happen? Did you know about that? When can the compensation premium be fixed, especially for home care? I put my second question to you earlier, but I would like to come back to it. It's about the vaccination centers in the asylum centers. You said about this last time that the consultation was still ongoing. Meanwhile, I have already heard sounds as if this vaccination would run at the same time as the vaccination of the general population, but how can it happen simultaneously? A vaccine can only be given to someone once. Will vaccination take place in asylum centres before or after vaccination of the general population? I hope that today you will be able to indicate how the procedure will work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u3	Mr President, I would like to refer to my written questions. 55015429C, 55015655C, 55015658C, 55015670C, 55015674C, 55015675C, 55015677C, 55015908C, 55015909C and 55015919C. I also have a few further questions. A first one is about a batch of four million syringes lying at Liège airport waiting for a buyer. The Task Force Procurement has contacted a French importer to purchase zero dead volume syringes. Now it appears that the importer made an offer on part of that batch, at 33 cents per syringe. Another offer has been made through an intermediary at 39 cents per syringe. However, there is a polemic going on today, which means that the 4 million syringes in Liège are waiting for an arm in which they can be punctured. Could you give us a little more explanation? How is it that the French group has been approached in two ways and that different prices would be paid: 6 cents per syringe for 4 million syringes is a big difference? I now come to the Community part of the vaccination approach. You can confirm that this is true, but I have been informed that the invitation to vaccination in Flanders is confirmed in 83% of cases and in Wallonia and Brussels only in 53% and 23% respectively. So there are very large differences, which also shows the differences in vaccination readiness. How will you solve that? How will we reach a vaccination rate of 70% of the adult population in Wallonia and Brussels? I'm worried about that. The EEA has Homologized three factories: a factory in Leiden, which will produce the AstraZeneca vaccine, a factory in Germany for Pfizer/BioNTech and a factory in the Swiss Visp for Moderna. The factories have already tested, some have already produced vaccines. Do you know how many vaccines were produced there and what happened to them? After all, we had a discussion on this last week. You also mentioned an ill-advised proposal. Has the government in Serbia accepted a malicious proposal and you haven't? You will find the questions back. I would have liked to have some clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u4	I refer to Questions Nos. 55016053C and 55016055C. In her question, Mrs Van Camp already referred to the postponement of the payment of protective equipment, not only for nurses, but apparently for the entire care and medical staff. In particular, I had a question about communication and timing. How will care providers be informed of the delay in payment? When will the Royal Decree be published? When will the payout happen? How will communication go around that? Who's going to communicate with? Of course, it's bad. They got in the front line last year, and they're still doing it. Last year it was without protective materials, or with very expensive, self-purchased material. Can you shed some light on that? My second question concerns a proposal that I read in the newspaper yesterday. Mr Van Ranst refers to what the United Kingdom is doing, to prepare us through the vaccines for those variants that are currently household. Maybe that won't be the end of it. He proposed that we contact pharmaceutical companies or at least at European level to encourage such contact. How will we deal with this so that new vaccines that can protect against the variants are quickly included in that vaccination strategy? How do you and your advisors feel about the booster vaccine, as it will now be used in the UK?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u5	Minister, here are two rather short questions. The first concerns the European summit on Thursday; following the summit, can we finally guarantee that Belgium will have a smooth, sufficient and safe vaccine delivery schedule? I also had a question related to the UK strategy, but my colleague Barbara Creemers just outlined this subject. My second question is the capacity of hospitals to cope with this third wave. Indeed, on Friday, one third of the ICU beds were already occupied by covid patients, while our caregivers are physically and mentally exhausted. Are there specific statistics on current care workers who are out of health care? What support and means are they being mobilised at the moment to help hospitals, but also the front line?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u6	Mr President, I refer to the written version of the questions I have tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u7	I'll try to summarize the summary. My first question concerns the AstraZeneca vaccine. Minister, following the latest news, how many doses of this vaccine are missing in our country compared to the initial delivery schedule? My second question is the following. The Higher Council of Health met a few days ago to examine the possibility of injecting only one dose to people who have already been infected with the virus and, as a result, developed antibodies. This strategy could indeed be interesting with a view to speeding up vaccination. Therefore, what are the conclusions of the Higher Council of Health in this context? Is it envisaged to give only one dose to people who have already been infected with coronavirus? My third question concerns the vaccination of children. A few weeks ago, Moderna announced that it had started testing its coronavirus vaccine on thousands of children between the ages of six months and eleven years. A few days ago, it was Pfizer's turn to announce that he had started clinical trials of his vaccine in children. What is known to date about the progress of clinical trials of these two vaccines in children? If these vaccines were ever to be approved and recommended for children, could they be considered for inclusion in our vaccination strategy? Finally, several studies have recently shown that the blood type would have an influence on coronavirus contamination. Minister, do you confirm the results of these studies? Have any studies been or will be carried out with us on this subject? What are the recommendations of these studies?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u8	Minister, I refer to written questions 5505413C, 5505435C, 5505568C, 5505569C, 5505723C and 5505848C. I would like to raise a few specific questions. In connection with booster vaccinations, a number of eminent gentlemen, including Professor Molenberghs, stated that they would be necessary. Do you take that into account? How do we prepare ourselves for that? As regards the approval of vaccines, in mid-March this year it became known that vaccines previously approved by the EEA will be automatically recognised. The European Commission wants to give the Member States the opportunity to recognise other vaccines, if they so wish. Does that lead to a change in our country's attitude, as this means that bilateral negotiations can be held on the supply of vaccines? Will our country use this to recognise, for example, the Chinese Sinopharm vaccine or the Russian Sputnik-V? Finally, a question about what I called 'vaccine confusion'. I was informed by a number of people that there was a difference between the vaccine with which they would be vaccinated and the vaccine with which they were effectively vaccinated. They drew that conclusion on the basis of the time-limit between the first and the second dose, which was stated on the letter of invitation. The vaccine corresponding to the stated time limit was ultimately not the vaccine they were given. Are you aware of this, Minister, and do you have an explanation for it? What are the chances of people effectively getting two different vaccines? Has that already happened and what consequences does that have for the vaccinees?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I refer to my questions. 55015656C, 55015436C, 55015657C, 55015677C, 55015695C, 55015773C and 55015929C. I also have two further questions. A first question concerns the results of Dutch field experiments, in which a large number of people participated in events. Such experiments were also carried out in Germany and Barcelona. Do you follow it? Are these data exchanged with other countries? Are we in the process of such experiments or have they already been carried out? My second question concerns the vaccination of 16 and 17-year-olds at risk. The EEA has apparently approved that they can be vaccinated, but our government forbids that. Could you give us a little more explanation on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u10	Mr President, I refer to the written version of my questions concerning the testing strategy and the role of professionals in vaccination. With regard to the testing strategy, in our discussions this afternoon, the minister has already provided information on the stock response and the estimate of the number available per week in the country's pharmacies. Business tests have been made available to occupational medicine. I would like to know how much this is for the months of April and May. I would also like to ask a more specific question about vaccination. So, could you tell me, minister, if you intend to empower pharmacists and other health care professionals to administer vaccines after prior training?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u11	Mr President, my question is about the possibility of organising cultural events. I refer to the written version.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u12	Mrs Farih and Mrs Merckx have apologized, their questions have lapsed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u13	Mr Minister, my first question concerns the opening of three additional factories for the production of corona vaccines. Pfizer, Moderna and AstraZeneca announced that they would open three new factories on the European mainland to produce vaccines. Furthermore, the EEA has recommended that the Pfizer vaccine be stored at temperatures between -25 and -15 °C. Minister, what does that mean for the vaccination campaign in Belgium? Is that gonna speed it up? How many more vaccines could it bring to our country? I come to my second question. Today, pharmaceutical companies are developing the so-called variant or booster vaccines. This is necessary because the virus mutates continuously, which means that there is a risk that the current vaccines will not be sufficiently effective in the future. The United Kingdom announced last week that it was considering a third injection of variant or booster vaccines to its population already in September. Should a new variant overpower the existing vaccines, our country must be prepared. Mr Minister, is there any thought in our country of giving our citizens a booster vaccine? Have you tried to measure the current state of affairs with the producers about the development of these booster vaccines? Do you have any idea when the modified vaccines might be available in Belgium? I also ask you to start discussions at European level with the countries and the producers for the development and purchase of the modified vaccines. Our country must now make all the necessary preparations. In my opinion, the task force should already consider what, how, how, how and when. Are we already working on this within the Task Force and/or the EU?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u14	Mrs Jiroflée did not put any questions. She's not here either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u15	Minister, we just talked about testing. So I won't come back. As far as vaccination is concerned, I have a series of questions for you. First, on priority occupational groups. The nine Ministers of Health, including those of the federated entities, had considered that teachers should not be given priority, nor should they be given priority in the early childhood sector. The nine Ministers of Health were involved in the ICD Health and all decisions made. Of course, it's a terrible challenge. Minister, what about it? Is there an evolution, a new discussion under way? Especially with regard to teachers in kindergarten, primary education, special education and childcare workers who supervise the very little children. For people under the age of 65 with chronic conditions, are the problems of convocation and selection now resolved? In fact, there will be a superimposition between what is achieved at the level of mutuals and what is achieved by general practitioners. This is likely to cause a lot of problems and harm the effectiveness of the summons, with failures to the key and/or patients who will pass between the meshes of the net and who will be forgotten. As for the possibility for general practitioners to vaccinate in their practice (...) It is obviously quite possible with AstraZeneca, and this will be all the more so with the Johnson & Johnson vaccines that are expected on 13 or 14 April in Belgium. Yes or no, will you finally allow general practitioners to administer vaccines? On the vaccine adapted to the variants, it is quite possible that a new vaccination is necessary. Will it be in the fall, in September or November? Case to follow. But compared to the new variant, is this point already discussed (...)? If so, what was decided? Are there any pre-orders? Finally, last point on vaccination. New events of brain thrombosis and disseminated intravascular coagulation have been reported with the AstraZeneca vaccine. Should this or should it not lead us to re-approve the Higher Council of Health for an opinion, particularly with regard to the vaccination of the youngest? Minister, last Thursday I asked you about the non-payment of the INAMI intervention in the cost of individual equipment. Meanwhile, I checked, you still haven't published the royal decree. I refer to my question 52 on the agenda because this is the fourth time that I have asked you, Minister, about monoclonal antibodies. Thank you for answering it this time, perhaps!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u16	Mr President, I refer to my questions Nos. 55015875C, 55016041C, 55016042C, 55016044C, 55016047C, 55016048C, 55016049C, 55016050C, 55016051C and 55016054C. Minister, I wanted to question you about Mr Goossens' interview in Humo. He feared that the measures imposed by the last Codeco would last longer than expected. In doing so, the timetable for the de-finition announced is still realistic since the contact trades schools and the other sectors would resume within a week. As far as vaccination is concerned, what is the government's strategy today to speed up deliveries since the supply problems which are the same for all EU countries do not prevent them, for some of them, from having a higher vaccination rate than ours. Should we not, like Germany, consider the purchase of additional vaccines from other non-contracted suppliers of the European Commission? I am thinking of the Sputnik V vaccine, for example, quoted by some of my colleagues. It is also apparent that certain sectors such as construction, for example, advocate vaccination in the workplace. Is this a planned lead? I also wanted to know whether it was possible to provide additional doses of vaccine for the Brussels region, given that it had to vaccinate a significant number of non-Bruxellois working in Brussels, in particular medical staff? In the case of outbreaks of contamination, the President of the MR, after the last Codeco, was heard pleading for studies on outbreaks of contamination. But in concrete terms, what studies have been put in place, or not, by the government in relation to the off-the-shelf sectors (culture, events, contact trades or horeca)? I also wanted to go back to the closure of schools and the cacophony of measures that have placed schools and families in great difficulties. The president of the Belgian Professional Association of Paediatricians believes that the impact of this closure of schools on the epidemic will be marginal. What do you answer him and what do you also answer to teachers who ask for their vaccination to be advanced? Wouldn't it be a guarantee to keep our schools open until the summer holidays? Finally, I will conclude with a question on monoclonal antibody combinations. The head of the covid-19 units at Erasmus Hospital, Dr. Goffard, announced that the combination of monoclonal antibodies would result in a 70% decrease in hospitalizations in people with co-morbidity factors. He called for policies to order these products as quickly as possible. How do you respond to this call?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Rohonyi. I will give the floor to the Minister to try to answer the questions that have been asked in one hour. I thank the members who have made the effort to limit themselves in their speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u18	Mr President, I will first answer the questions that have been asked about the measures we have taken in the fight against the epidemic. I do not believe, ladies and gentlemen, that I should convince you how difficult it is today in hospitals. Capacity utilisation of intensive care departments is around 98%. This is an extremely difficult and extremely difficult situation in which all kinds of care, which people also need but which can be postponed at first sight, must be postponed. That is an extremely difficult situation. It's another dramatic situation. I understand the many questions that are being asked about sectors that we have said should stop their activities, but I would like things to be put in perspective and the arguments to be correctly reflected. I always hear the suggestion that when a particular sector, such as hairdressers or beauty salons, has to stop activities, that is a kind of accusation to that sector, that we would like to say that this sector is not doing very carefully. No, we're not saying that at all. Or that we would say that this sector is really a driving force behind the epidemic. No, we're not saying that at all. Or that we would like to say that there is a spectacular number of infections in this sector. No, we're not saying that at all. I really do not think it is useful to repeat the debate in these terms. I am not saying that the members of this committee do all that, but I hear too much of that coming back. That is not the argument why certain sectors should stop their activities. The argument is that we want to reduce the number of contacts between people. And at some point we have to do that quite drastically. That's hard, and that's hard, but we have to do it. The balance we have to make is: where are there many contacts, changing contacts, always with other people? Where are these contacts a little more risky than anywhere else? And how important are these contacts, social, for our well-being, and for our economic life? That is the balance to be struck. Of course any contact is important and of course every contact involves a certain risk. However, the risks vary and the social, economic and welfare importance also varies according to the type of contact or activity. That consideration is therefore made, mainly on the basis of common sense. When we ask contact professionals such as hairdressers to stop their activities again, we do so with regret in the heart, understanding the enormous frustration that must live there, because there are many changing contacts in that sector. It is therefore not without risk, even if it is doing its utmost. I would like to see the idea of an accusation disappear from the world. That's not true. The idea that this means that we have the evidence of a spectacular number of infections in that sector is also the best thing to disappear. It's not, it's not what it takes. What is needed is common sense to realise that where there are many and varied contacts, there are also risks. This must be weighed against the need to maintain such contacts. Then one can decide together that one unfortunately has to stop the activity of hairdressers and beauty salons. It can be said at the same time that people can go shopping, by appointment, alone or with two. It may be necessary to keep these shops open, which can then be weighed against the risk. I would like to see the right argument put into question. Does that mean that we do not have any indication of sectors where there is more or less risk? We do have indications for that. We know, for example, on the basis of RSZ data, the extent to which employees in different sectors are or are no longer infected. Such data is involved. Members of the GEMS have shared such data with us. A note will be published shortly in which you can take note of that data. You will then be able to identify in which sub-sectors more workers are infected and in which sub-sectors there are relatively fewer. You will then see that this is an effective factor in balancing the need to keep a particular sector open, against the risk of doing so. But there is never an absolute crushing individual proof of a particular measure in a particular sector. The general judgment, the general approach, is to reduce contacts where one can assume that there are more varied contacts and therefore there is more risk and where the need for our well-being and our social and economic life is just a little less important, however necessary these activities are in themselves. At some point we must tell society that we are stopping a number of activities. It would be a good thing if we used the right argument and not constantly the wrong argument that this is an accusation or that it suggests that people are careless in those sectors. That is not the case. Over the next few weeks, we will have to bite together, at a time when it is extremely difficult behind our backs, in hospitals. Let's think about that, too. I come to a few specific questions that are important in this context, including questions from several Members about the variants. I would just like to remind you that at the beginning of the year we took the rather ambitious decision to strengthen our surveillance of genome sequencing, so that we can follow up fairly well through genome sequencing which variants of the virus are present with us and to what extent. It is not just about following up known variants, but also about the emergence of new variants. We try to have the right mix of outpatient and hospitalized patients in the labs in baseline surveillance. I think this is a good example of an evidence-based approach. The national reference laboratory shall publish a weekly report describing the distribution of the variants. For example, in the weeks from 8 to 21 March 2021, an S-gen drop-out was established in 77.2 % of the samples. It indicates a variant of the virus. Within that group, 75.8 % was the British variant, 5.3 % was the South African variant and 3.1 % was the Brazilian variant. So the British variant slowly becomes the dominant variant. For the variant noted in Brittany, there is for the time being no evidence of a more serious course or increased contagiousness. The "Belgian" variant or Intrest B1.214.2 does not seem to be replaced by the British variant at present, unlike the "ordinary" strains. This will be closely monitored. All variants have been detected on the basis of an initial positive PCR test. For the variant from Brittany, the tests taken from the upper respiratory tract were negative and the virus was only recovered in the lungs. However, it is still unclear for the time being whether that is a typical characteristic of that variant. A preliminary analysis of the UGent hospital shows that among ICU patients the same distribution of variants as among the outpatients is found. The British, South African and Brazilian variants are more contagious than the previous dominant variant. The British variant is about.................................................................................................................................................................... The dominance of the new variant is one of the factors that has helped to increase the number of infections. It is precisely that which has been at the basis of recent entanglements. The profile of the hospital patients has not changed compared to the second wave. However, the rest home residents are currently lacking, which is due to an effect of the vaccination. As a result, there is also a shift in the age groups of the hospitalized. You will also find a report on the website of Sciensano. To the questions that have been asked about this, I have to answer that the samples of deceased persons are not systematically sequenced. So we do not really have any data on the number of deaths that can be attributed to a particular variant. We know, however, that the British variant can give a more serious picture of disease than the previous dominant variant. We can therefore assume that a number of deaths are due to the fact that the British variant has become dominant, but we cannot say much more. Up to and including 19 March, 51% of COOVID-19 deaths were women, 49 percent were men. Of these deaths, 94 % were 65 years of age or older. Of all the COOVID-19 deaths, 58 percent took place in hospital and 41 percent in the residential care centre. More detailed information on deaths, either solely as a result of COVID-19 or as an underlying cause, is likely to be available in two years' time, through death certificates. The incidence per province can be consulted via the open data of Sciensano, you know that. There were also questions about transparency. Clinical surveillance is not mandatory. She's not exhaustive because of that. She doesn't register all hospitalized patients in Belgium. It was founded scientifically and methodologically with the primary aim of studying risk factors and the evolution of hospitalized covid patients. Patient reporting is not standardised between hospitals, with the risk of bias when data is reported without context. When data is split several times, there are actually too few data points to speak of a representative cohort. However, we believe that these data are representative at the national level. So we do not publish data from individual hospitals in this context, because this may have undesirable effects, for example the possibility of making incorrect conclusions about the quality of a hospital, which we do not want. It can also have a significant impact on chronically ill patients and/or overloading neighboring hospitals, due to the fact that people make decisions based on untextualized information that may not be rational. Figures per hospital in the search capacity survey are therefore not made public. Among European ministers, especially the ministers of neighbouring countries, we have always kept and confirmed the mutual promise of European solidarity. It is therefore on that basis of mutual solidarity that we were able to hospitalize 32 patients in Germany at the peak of the second wave in Belgium. The hospitals in the province of Liège, which were hit very hard in the second wave, asked in January on the Hospital and Transport Surge Capacity Committee whether Belgium could also make beds available if the capacity utilisation of hospitals allowed it. Capacity is available through the European EWRS system. So far our offer has only been used by France, to a limited extent, in early March 2021. We were able to help France by receiving 17 French patients in Belgian hospitals. In West Flanders five covid patients were received, in Hainaut, Liège and Flemish Brabant each three, in East Flanders two and in Namur one. Of course, these patients have been included in our hospital records in all transparency. Today there are 11 patients in covid-ICU departments and one patient is still in a covid ward in a hospital. This person will be repatriated to France this week. There were questions about the positivity ratio. It is followed daily in the reports of Sciensano and discussed weekly in the RAG Epidemiology. The positivity ratios in Namur and Hainaut are still the highest in Belgium. The number of tests is relatively low, but that number is even lower in the province of Liège on Monday 22 March 2021. It therefore appears that not only the number of tests carried out is responsible for the high positivity ratio, but that the high positivity ratio also indicates a higher viral circulation among the population. So for several weeks now we have been asking for extra attention through the RAG Epidemiology in the provinces of Namur and Hainaut. In the course of the epidemic, it is a global trend that in Walloon provinces there is often a little less testing than in Flanders. The guidelines on testing are national and not different across the provinces. This trend is also included in the weekly RAG report that is also delivered to the governors. I can only say that it is extremely important to follow the national test indications properly. This is also the subject of regular communication to the general practitioners' associations, as you know. By the way, in the discussion that preceded the decision to make rapid antigen tests available to companies and public services, which we discussed this afternoon, it has been constantly said that this should certainly be done in regions and sectors where there are many infections. We didn't impose any obligations. We have not implemented selection criteria. The provision of free antigen tests for companies and public services is universal, but we hope that in a number of regions with many infections and companies sensitive to infections there will really be additional responsibility. I would like to say the following about the perspective. There is no doubt that the population is longing for the end of this epidemic and all the misery associated with it. At the same time, we know that we must continue with these measures. We also know that we need to think carefully about the moment when we can announce a relaxation. I really do not want to say any more about this now, because I believe that we must now focus on a good understanding of the measures and why, unfortunately, they are needed again, on good pedagogy of those measures, and on the proper follow-up and enforcement of those measures. The reasons for an increase in figures are always complex. Even the interpretation of the figures is not easy. It is known, for example, that when it comes to pupils in teaching, the frequency of testing is important. Students are subject to much more surveillance than employees on telework, for example in cases of mild symptoms, and the numbers should always be interpreted with caution. The RAG epidemiology noted in its last report: "Over the past week, great attention has been paid to the increasing number of infections in children and clusters in schools. The situation in schools, however, reflects the spread of the virus in the community. In schools, extensive investigations are carried out around the contact of index cases, with more complete information on the transmission of the virus. This is supported by the significant increase in the number of tests performed for ages 0-19, compared to other age groups." Mrs Merckx isn't here? Then I don't have to answer her questions. I had a long talk about something that I think is important: everything that happens in the workplace, the need to organise and maintain telework properly and support it, the inspections that we strengthen, the control that is being stepped up and the increase in sanctions in the event of non-compliance, which is currently being worked on. Since Mrs Merckx couldn't be here, I'm not going to go into that in more detail for the sake of time. Mrs Taquin did ask her questions, I think. With regard to testing and tracing, Madame Taquin, I would like to say the following. At present, 83.5 % of the results of a PCR test are communicated to the patient within 24 hours and 95.7 % within 36 hours. Despite the increase in the number of decreased tests, currently around 67,000 per day, turnaround time remains more or less stable. Of the 467.907 tests taken in the week from 22 to 28 March, 95,983 were analysed by the federal platform. That's close to a fifth. 86.8 % of contacted index patients indicates at least one useful high-risk contact, which can in turn be contacted. I would like to go back to the debates we had this morning and this afternoon and recall that no self-test was commissioned by the federal government. The delivery of auto-tests will be carried out through the normal circuit from the producer to pharmacists and, if necessary, by wholesalers. It is obviously interesting to be able to track the use of these tests, certainly at the beginning of their deployment. However, as I have already explained, there will not be a detailed registration of all clients who purchase a self-test in the offices. However, the registration of persons benefiting from financial assistance will be carried out in a nominal manner in order to secure the administration of INAMI. In addition, people benefiting from an increased intervention will be able to benefit from two tests per week per person in the household, knowing that they will have to pay one euro per test. The Royal Decree for this reimbursement, which is expected to take effect after 12 April, has yet to be made. Mrs Taquin, the self-tests should therefore be delivered from 6 April, but their reimbursement would only become effective on 12 April. In any case, that is what we hope. Mrs. Sneppe had a question about the reinfections. For 9,500 of the 850,000 positive tests, this is a reinfection. Reinfections occur but without specific research, it is impossible to tell whether it is a vestige of the first infection or a real reinfection. Analysis of the whole genome sequence can provide a definitive response. Sequencing platform laboratories rarely receive samples as part of such reinfection. In June, a directive was issued to make an exception for case-by-case follow-up of a positive PCR result if there is suspicion of an old infection. However, it is not possible to draw this conclusion solely on the basis of the TC value, the cycle threshold. Additional clinical parameters should be taken into account to make this conclusion possible as recommended by the June GAR. However, this decision is the responsibility of the attending physician and not the screening centre. Recently, a new attempt has been made to harmonize CT values between different laboratories and platforms and to arrive at quantitative values in terms of RNA copy per millilitre. This will transmit semi-quantitative values for PCR results to Sciensano and the contact centre from the beginning of March, but this will have no impact on tracing. A similar exercise was carried out with the harmonization of CT values in quantitative values in RNA copy values per millilitre. The threshold value of TB varies from laboratory to laboratory, and this is also the case abroad. With regard to the vaccination strategy, I have been asked many questions. You know that we are currently immunizing all people over the age of 65. In April, we should be able to begin the next phase, that is, the phase dedicated to younger people but suffering from an underlying condition called co-morbidity, which makes them more vulnerable in the event of covid-19 infection. This phase must take account of the number of doses available, giving priority to those who are at risk of serious complication if they are to be infected. Once this phase has been completed, taking into account the time it will end and the number of doses that will then be available, it will be up to us to decide whether we are directly immunizing the rest of the population or whether we are continuing with an intermediate phase of immunizing certain essential functions that will then be identified. We have therefore requested an opinion from the Higher Council of Health on this issue. Indeed, the request for an opinion that has been submitted to the Higher Council of Health is a broad request. It refers in particular to requests from the education sector, but it is a broad request which also covers the question of whether or not a second vaccination is indicated for patients who have already had an infection, a certain immunity, etc. There were questions about the mobile teams. These will be used in two cases, for home vaccination and vaccinations in a community or on site. The Task Force Vaccination advises home vaccination for bedridden people and/or people under strict medical indications, for example severe psychiatric disorders, severe physical disability and people unable to leave their homes under normal circumstances. They are eligible for home vaccination by their general practitioner or by the mobile team of the vaccination centre. It is also recommended to provide vaccinations on site or in communities for people in precarious situations who cannot go to vaccination centres for a variety of reasons. The target groups of that type of vaccination are homeless people. We estimate that it is about at least 17,000 people and people without papers. It's hard to estimate that number, but we estimate it at 85,000 to 160,000 people. These vaccinations must be organised by the Länder, of course in consultation with the actors in the field. This should take into account, inter alia, the presence of medical staff for vaccination and the ordering of vaccines at a vaccination centre, which, of course, refers implicitly to the possibility of using the mobile teams of a vaccination centre for this purpose. For vaccination in asylum centres, both open and closed asylum centres and local reception initiatives are considered as collections. Therefore, the inhabitants and staff of these centres will receive their vaccine together during phase 2. The details of the organisation will be developed by the Task Force on Vaccination and the asylum centres themselves. The implementation of these vaccinations will be organised by the respective medical services and deliveries will be controlled by the Länder. The use of a single-dose vaccine is recommended. The vaccination with the caregivers is almost complete. To identify the caregivers, the CoBRHA database of the government was used; CoBRHA stands for Common Base Registry for HealtCare Actors. This includes everyone with a recognised health professional qualification, including those who are no longer active as a health care provider. This is an inevitable side effect of using this database. Just to repeat, the High Health Council will soon issue an opinion on the further progress of the vaccination campaign. This will be a general advice with some specific points of interest, such as: should we give priority to certain professional groups or not? On the basis of that advice, we need to see how we proceed. In the meantime, the vaccination of people with diseases, which we know from scientific data, is more susceptible to infection with COVID-19 and, if they are infected, are also at greater risk of a serious course of the disease. These include neuromuscular disorders such as ALS. According to the vaccination schedule, those people will start vaccination in April. This is currently proceeding according to plan. Of course it is our ambition that no people slip through the loopholes of the net. For drawing up the lists of patients at risk, multiple sources of data are combined. It was really our concern that the merging was done in a safe way. Firstly, insurance institutions and sickness funds draw up a list based on a number of indicators, such as medication use among their members. Secondly, the general practitioners make a selection from their patients' medical records. They will start gradually to complete that list from 2 April. They can add patients to the list at any time. Thirdly, the Cancer Register lists patients who have been diagnosed with cancer for the last five years. Fourthly, a number of specialists, in consultation with patient organisations, will list people with certain rare diseases. By merging these four sources together, we hope that there is little chance that someone will be forgotten. All these lists are merged into one unique list in a secure central registry, the Vaccination Codes Database. We have talked about this very recently in this committee. It is estimated that 1.2 to 1.5 million people will eventually be included in that database. There were a lot of questions about the deliveries. This week Pfizer supplies 179.000 vaccines and AstraZeneca 256.416. From next week, Pfizer will deliver more. In the week of 5 and 12 April, 267,930 vaccines are expected each time. Last Friday, the EEA approved vaccine manufacturers Pfizer, Moderna and AstraZeneca to produce vaccines in more locations on the mainland of Europe. We are currently looking at what this means for deliveries to Belgium. A first challenge is, of course, to adapt the logistics process, which may require fewer intermediate steps. We continue to work with 13 Pfizerhubs, as foreseen: 5 in Wallonia, 5 in Flanders, 2 in the German-speaking Community and 1 in Brussels. The EEA has also given a positive opinion on storing Pfizer vaccines at temperatures between -25 and -15 °C, which makes it a little easier. Pfizer supplies vaccines directly to -20 °C to the vaccination centres, which also store the vaccine at -20 °C for up to 2 weeks. Three things are still under consideration: whether the vaccination centres are able to carry out the thawing process properly and to monitor the management of the frozen and thawed vaccines properly, whether they can store multiple trays in their freezers, as these vaccines are only delivered per tray, and whether the vaccines may be transported during the thawing process. The Halix factory in Leiden is a small site where the production of AstraZeneca vaccines is currently starting. This was approved last week. According to AstraZeneca's information, they will send the drug substance with filling to Italy. According to this information, production is destined both for the European market and for global orders. Our objective is an open economy with transparency about the use of export licences. However, we see that the persistent production shortages are not fairly distributed among the different contracting countries. That is why we must ensure that the contracts concluded are properly implemented by complying, in particular, with the contractual delivery period. It is also important that the European Union strengthens global solidarity. The mechanism for the sharing of vaccines should be continued. The leading role of COVAX in ensuring universal access to vaccines should be further supported. These are the reasons why Belgium supports the decisions of the European Council to add the principles of reciprocity and proportionality as new criteria for granting an export licence. We will look at whether the country of destination limits its own exports of vaccines or raw materials for them by law or by any other means. We will also look at whether conditions in the country of destination are better or worse than in the EU, in terms of epidemiological conditions, vaccination rates and access to vaccines. The application for an export licence shall be submitted to the competent authorities of the Member States where the products covered by the Regulation are physically manufactured. It concerns the active substances, the primary packaging, the secondary packaging and the final product. I have no knowledge of a request for an export licence from a company established in Belgium concerning AstraZeneca's stock found in Italy. The export of finished vaccines by the company in Seneffe is impossible, as that company does not produce finished vaccines, but only drug substancies. In addition, all exports are covered by the provision of DIR 021/521, which states that each export of covid vaccines must be subject to an export licence. In Belgium this is done by the FPS Economy. This also shows that no vaccine has yet been exported from the company in Seneffe. If there is no valid export licence, customs will systematically stop it. The 16 million doses of Catalent Italy are divided between the EU Member States this week and next week. They're not extra doses. The discussions at the European summit included a better framework for exports of doses produced on European territory or the allocation of the 10 million additional doses announced by Pfizer. Unfortunately, there is no policy measure to prevent the production defects of the various pharmaceutical companies with which Europe is engaged. So I can't guarantee you a smooth, sufficient and safe delivery schedule. That's impossible. No Member State is in a position to do so. This particularly uncomfortable situation requires us to show the greatest flexibility in managing our administration schedule, to which the teams involved in the process are committed every day. It is precisely this flexibility which, despite the recent turmoil, makes us stay in perfect line with the timetable we set for ourselves at the beginning of January. I would like to say the following about AstraZeneca. At its extraordinary meeting, the PRAC, the EEA Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee, confirmed that the benefits of the vaccine still clearly outweigh the risk of adverse reactions. Indeed, there may be a relationship with very rare cases of blood clots associated with thrombocytopenia......................................................................................................................................................................... A causal relationship with the vaccine has not been proven at this time, but is possible and definitely deserves further investigation. The PRAC will therefore carry out a new study of these risks, including the other COOVID-19 vaccines, although there is no evidence of such problems for the time being. Reports of blood clotting problems will be closely monitored and additional studies will be launched in order to obtain more data. The EEA and the FAGG will continue to communicate on this issue. A letter to healthcare providers, known as direct healthcare professional communication, was prepared to inform them about the AstraZeneca-COVID-19 vaccine and the risk of thrombocytopenia and coagulation disorders, and to draw attention to the signs and symptoms of thromboembolism and/or thrombocytopenia. On 14 March I asked the High Health Council for an urgent opinion on this matter. The members of the NITAG, the National Immunization Technical Advisory Group, all responded positively, with the exception of two abstentions, on the assumption that at that time - and I am talking about 14 March - there was no evidence of an increased incidence of thromboembolic events with AstraZeneca vaccine and that its benefit outweighs the potential risks and that it is therefore agreed with the EEA's opinion on this matter, which is positive in relation to the continuation of the administration, but that if the EEA amended its recommendation, the group would agree with that. That was clearly stated. If a person refuses a vaccine, the reason for refusal shall not be given. So we do not know how much percent his vaccine has refused, because it was about AstraZeneca. In order to reassure the population about the further use of the vaccine, we and experts have extensively communicated through all kinds of classical channels. In addition, primary care was continuously kept informed so that patients could receive accurate and updated information. There was also information on the corona website of the various governments. Fortunately, we have not stopped the administration of the vaccine of AstraZeneca, so that due to the understandable commotion there was no impact on our vaccination campaign. As far as Sputnik, Sinopharm and so on are concerned, the EEA is currently working on Sputnik's rolling review. All clinical trial data should first be considered. The quality of the production itself is also investigated. These are good clinical practices and good factoring practices. Once that review has come to a conclusion, a number of Member States, and possibly also the EU, will decide whether or not they are interested in a common purchase. If a contract is concluded at European level for the purchase of Sputnik vaccines, the Interministerial Conference on Public Health will take the decision, as always following the advice of the Advisory Board of the FAGG. That decision will depend on the number of vaccines that can be delivered to Europe and the number of other vaccines available at that time. European Commissioner for International Trade, Thierry Breton, is trying, on behalf of the EU, to explore ways to boost European vaccine production capacity in a short time. In doing so, Commissioner Breton plays the role of facilitator to promote partnerships between companies, to detect and activate unused capacity in the EU, to build up new production capacity and to create match-making between producers, factories and suppliers, but also to promote overall coordination between Member States and the European Commission. Commissioner Breton also focuses on bottlenecks in the production process in relation to raw materials, vaccination material, production parts. Designing vaccines is one thing, producing them massively is a completely different challenge, as you know. Russia is also experiencing problems with the scaling up of Sputnik vaccines. After two months of analysis and contacts, Breton comes to the somewhat reassuring conclusion that the European Union should have sufficient doses in the second quarter to continue to implement the initially planned vaccination in the European Union. For CoronaVac, developed by Sinovac Life Sciences Company, the rolling review process at the EEA needs to be started. Not surprisingly, Belgium will follow the opinion of the EEA on granting a conditional marketing authorisation. According to our information, the EEA's approval of Covishield of AstraZeneca is in full swing, but we need to take into account export restrictions from India that will have an impact on both the United Kingdom and the European Union. The Serum Institute of India is contracted by AstraZeneca for the production of 1.2 billion doses of the total of 3 billion doses for 2021. As you have already heard from the company itself, every agreement relating to the delivery of the vaccine AstraZeneca must be notified. Also, in the case of doses from the Serum Institute of India, this is because AstraZeneca must be able to fulfil a number of obligations, but also because of the commitment to distribute the vaccine without a profit during the pandemic and to prevent the resale of vaccines at a higher price. In short, any contact to conclude a bilateral agreement with the company is, by definition, ill-advised and such an offer undoubtedly concerns counterfeiting or detainment. In consultation with myself, the Prime Minister's cabinet contacted the pharmaceutical company. So I do not understand why some people continue to insist that we should accept an obviously ill-advised offer and thus give the impression that we are failing to take chances to speed up vaccination, quod non. It is not a matter of taking steps to get the SII vaccine to our country. It is up to AstraZeneca to fulfil his obligations. I want to be very clear about that. As far as the situation in Serbia is concerned, Mrs Depoorter, Serbia is not part of the European Union, it is not part of the European Economic Area and is therefore outside the remit of European contracts. I really can't say anything about that, I'm not aware. That is not to say that if we were to be able to buy additional vaccines properly in the European framework, we would not be able to do so if it were appropriate, but a company that would supply us outside the European framework would infringe and none of the companies concerned would do so. An offer like that is rogue. That's what the companies say. It would therefore be useful for us to be clear about this in our conversations. With regard to the attitude of the government, and our Prime Minister with regard to the unspent delivery dates of some pharmaceutical companies, I fully support it. Prime Minister De Croo argued at the European Council to limit export restrictions to companies that do not meet their obligations and to safeguard the global supply chains for our pharmaceutical industry. Thanks to the support of many other smaller Member States and the Netherlands, a Belgian amendment with a reference to safeguarding the global supply chains was accepted in the European Council's final declaration. As far as the advice of the advisory board is concerned, I told FAGG that they should be released if we can get the confidential price information out of it. With regard to the vaccination of children and pregnant women, the High Health Council does not recommend routine vaccination of pregnant women. However, vaccination of pregnant women may be considered at individual level if the benefits of vaccination of a pregnant woman outweigh the potential risks of the vaccine. For example, it could involve a risk of exposure and women with conditions that could increase their risk of severe COOVID-19. The High Health Council does not oppose the systematic vaccination of women of childbearing potential who wish to become pregnant, if it is not possible to postpone pregnancy until after the second vaccination dose, especially in the case of caregivers with high risk exposure, or women with conditions that increase their risk of severe COVID-19. The decision to be vaccinated is up to the pregnant woman, possibly after consultation with her treating doctor. On 16 March, Moderna announced the beginning of its KidCOVE clinical study, a Phase 2 and Phase 3 study studying the immunogenicity and safety of Moderna vaccine in children under 12 years of age. The company plans to recruit 6,750 children aged 6 months to 12 years in the United States and Canada. Recruitment of these children is under way. The company did not specify when the preliminary results were available, but they are not expected until this summer. With regard to Pfizer-BioNTech, on 25 March, their Phase 1 paediatric study began. It will include 144 participants. Its objective is to identify the vaccine's preferred dosage levels for three age groups: between 6 months and 2 years, between 2 and 5 years and between 5 and 11 years. The company will then evaluate the safety and efficacy of the dose levels selected in Phase 2 and Phase 3 studies. According to several press reports, the company plans to recruit approximately 4,500 children in the United States and Europe for these children. I should like to refer to the sixth COOVID-19 health survey, which was completed on 26 March and which takes stock of one year of living with the coronavirus. There was also a survey in the opinion of the participants on vaccination. As a reminder, over 30,000 people participated in the previous surveys. The sixth survey data should be available in April. In parallel, several separate surveys were carried out between September 2020 and February 2021 on the attitude of Belgian general practitioners towards vaccination, by the VUB, Le Journal du Médecin and Sciensano. The general opinion is positive. More than 90% of general practitioners want to be vaccinated and also advise patients to do so. Between the end of 2020 and February 2021, a positive trend was observed with regard to the acceptance of the vaccine in general practitioners. On behalf of the Coronac Commissariat, UAntwerp has been conducting the Great Corona study at the national level for some time. The results published on 9 February show that vaccination readiness remains high. Among the more than 20,000 respondents, 84 % say that they are likely to be vaccinated. Half of the doubters indicated that their doubt is related to the specific vaccine they would receive. The main reason for being vaccinated is not getting sick, for 79 percent of those people, but that is very age-dependent. It is much more important for older people than for young respondents. A role can also be played in society, facilitating, at 75% of respondents, protecting vulnerable people in their own environment, at 66%, and giving themselves more freedom, at 55%, are important reasons for having a shot. Furthermore, the UAntwerp carried out a survey on vaccination readiness, specifically in French-speaking Belgium, at the end of January and early February, at the request of the Commissariat. This showed that 59 percent of respondents are vaccinated, 21 percent are in doubt, 20 percent say not to be vaccinated. The doubters and refusers are particularly concerned about the safety of vaccines. UAntwerp now performs a more in-depth measurement of the profile and motives of the doubters. Those dates will be available after the Easter holidays. Governments shall adapt their communication strategy on the basis of such results. We inform people about the safety and efficacy of the vaccines through the classic media channels. The first-line care providers are also encouraged and supported by the Task Force to provide their patients with correct information. The Länder are also active in social media. It also produces material adapted to each target group, including, for example, the socio-economic stratification of the population. Mrs Rohonyi, Mrs Depoorter, Mr Creyelman, after several tests carried out on different computers, I can assure you that, regardless of the path followed to arrive on the Doclr site, the page that appears first is in French as long as your browser is configured in French. If your last search was done in another language, it is possible that the page will open in the language of your last search. A prominent cobblestone offers four options to change language (French, Dutch, German, English) and to continue the process in the language of your choice. It is also possible to access the Doclr invitation platform without going through the AViQ website via "jemevaccine.be". How? By clicking on the pink tab of the appointment management platform. Access to Doclr is also available in English if the browser is configured in English. The site therefore meets the needs of all users, regardless of their language of approach among the four languages proposed, namely French, Dutch, German and English. The mistakes of beginners that sometimes occurred during the start-up of vaccination centres in Wallonia are now fully resolved. The Task Force Vaccination developed a blueprint for the vaccination centres, providing several checks to avoid errors, e.g. administration of a different vaccine than indicated in the invitation. Based on an analysis of Vaccinenet+, out of 442,946 people registered as receiving 2 doses of the vaccine before 22 March, 91 may have received a mixed regimen with 2 different brands of vaccines. We can't rule out encryption errors. Each week, the Directorate-General for Authorisations of the FAGG shall be informed of new mixed regimes entered in the register. The effects in terms of efficacy or safety of the vaccine of these so-called mixed vaccination schedules are currently being investigated in international clinical studies. They are also planned in Belgium, under the coordination of the Knowledge Centre. The Task Force Vaccination closely follows the studies on the variant vaccines. Of course, we do not have any modified vaccines at the moment. Once there are, they will of course also be clinically validated. It is not yet certain that all producers will be able to develop effective vaccines against certain or all variants, but we do know that they are fully engaged in this development. All future contracts shall include clauses on the adaptation of vaccines. Therefore, at the moment when there are effectively adapted vaccines, they can be used by EU Member States. A so-called booster vaccine is certainly a consideration that we should follow scientifically in the possible path to deal with the future modified vaccines. We will certainly get more clarity about this in future clinical studies. The efficacy, and in particular a sufficiently high immune response following such a booster vaccine, should naturally be demonstrated. If not, some modified vaccines may require more than one dose. At present, no specific time lag can be reported on the updates of vaccines. The time needed to make such changes will depend on the platform technology used, which may range from three or four months to six or nine months. This is part of the considerations initiated by the EEA together with other regulatory authorities and pharmaceutical companies. Furthermore, manufacturers still need time to switch production and determine when it would be appropriate. We cannot rule out a scenario in which different tribes circulate at the same time. Therefore, multiple vaccines or multivalent vaccines may need to be considered. The United Kingdom has hypothesized about a third shot in the autumn, but it is still premature to make those statements and the data are scarce. Mr Creyelman, until now no findings have been made in our country concerning counterfeit vaccines. Furthermore, no information can be provided in the interest of the investigation. To prevent spread and abuse, empty vials in the vaccination centres are rendered unusable. The continuity of the control of incoming postal consignments of illicit drugs is ensured throughout the period of the crisis. There is therefore a continuous exchange of data between police, customs and the FAGG. This cooperation is not limited to national borders, but also includes international contacts. Cooperation is the basis for a close and continuous follow-up to combat this phenomenon, both on the ground and on the Internet and on the social media, by the police, customs and the FAGG. As no concrete findings have been made so far, no additional measures are planned. Mrs Depoorter, as regards your question about the material, at the time of placing the order of 10 million syringes to which you refer, the supplier who had made us a price offer at 0.39 euros each was the cheapest provider of zero dead volume syringes. Other suppliers had made price offers at much higher prices, between 0.95 and even 2 euros each and with longer delivery times. At the time of placing the order, the syringes were quality approved by the FAGG. The offer of shots at 0.33 euros per piece of the French group you spoke about was only received by the federal government after the order of 10 million pieces had been approved by the Council of Ministers and the order had been transferred to the supplier. Each purchase shall be tested on the premises on the basis of a significant sample before the purchases are validated. The test of the importer's syringes has now been completed and shows that the quality offered is not equivalent. The delivery of 4 million shots from the French group, which awaits at Liège airport, was a one-sided initiative of the French group without any prior quality approval by the federal government and without the French group having received an order for it. Moreover, it is not correct to claim that the syringes purchased will not be delivered until 15 April. The first deliveries have already been made and have been distributed among vaccination centres since 16 March. The phased deliveries are sufficient to ensure vaccination. So there's no shortage. By 15 April, all 10 million shots ordered will be delivered. The procurement procedure of the syringes was carried out by negotiated procedure without prior publication. The purchases are made by the FPS Public Health. The quality and certification of syringes are checked by the FAGG. The Inspector of Finance is responsible for the approval opinion. The Council of Ministers is politically responsible for the approval of orders. Mrs Sneppe, there are several studies in progress, in various populations in Belgium, on immunity to COOVID-19. For example, there are ongoing studies looking at the presence of antibodies in the blood of donors and health professionals. However, studies are also ongoing to monitor the immune response following vaccination. There's also B-cell research done by Sciensano. T-cell research is carried out in collaboration with various universities and research institutes. The results of these studies are coordinated by Sciensano and are available via the Sciensano-COVID-19 dashboard. The reports can be found on the website of Sciensano and in the various recent press releases. The latest percentages of subjects with antibodies or prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies are as follows. In the general population, based on a blood donor study, this is 16% at the end of January. In hospitals, at the end of February, this is 63%, but take into account the vaccination. For primary health workers, such as general practitioners and other health professionals employed in general medical practice, that is at the end of February 76 %, think again of vaccination. A regional study in Limburg, also carried out by Sciensano, showed that at the end of September 2020, 9% of children between 6 and 15 years of age had antibodies. Results of a national study on the presence of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in children are expected at the end of this month. There is currently no group immunity. Moreover, health policy and the health sciences have shown that making therapy compulsory usually has the opposite result. Information and awareness are the ways to get as many people as possible to follow health guidelines and recommendations and to make them choose a healthy life. Mrs Fonck, monoclonal antibody treatments are currently not used systematically in Belgium. Appropriate indications for antibody treatment are still under scientific development. Currently, based on the available scientific literature, it is not recommended for in-patient patients. Mrs Rohonyi, with regard to plasma transfers, the guidelines for the treatment of in-patient patients are available on the Sciensano website. Three major studies (NIHR, RERAP-CAP, Solidarity) have ceased to include new patients because of their futility, i.e. lack of clear clinical impact. Seroprevalence in blood donors can be consulted on the Sciensano Epistat dashboard. The Belgian plasma analysis and study DAWN is under way. It is important to note that the widespread use of convalescent plasma may result in the selection of resistant variants. With regard to staff, Ms. Taquin and Ms. H annoyance, an intensive care bed is part of a care unit that meets the standards of the Royal Decree of 27 April 1998 setting out the standards that an intensive care function must meet in order to be certified. In this decree you will find the architectural standards and functional, organizational and activity equipment that must exist in order to receive an approval. Under the previous government, two royal decrees (Nos. 8 and 10) were adopted on 19 April 2020, on the basis of the law of 27 March 2020. The aim of the projects was, on the one hand, to allow the liquidation of advances before granting cash to all hospitals and, on the other hand, to provide for the regularization and coverage of the costs and additional costs associated with the epidemic, on the basis of Article 101 of the Coordinated Hospitals Act. These advances are intended to offset the additional costs associated with the pandemic and the impact of the decrease in revenue from activities financed through fees as well as activities financed through lump sums. A first EUR 1 billion advance was granted to general hospitals at the end of April and a second EUR 1 billion advance was granted to general and psychiatric hospitals in October 2020. The redistribution of patients between hospitals approved for an intensive care function for the purpose of optimal hospital operation was supported by federal funding for the cost of patient transportation and the necessary individual protective elements. Under the current government, funding for costs and additional costs related to the guidelines for maintaining additional capacity in intensive and non-intensive care was provided for in the Royal Decree of 30 October 2020 laying down the modalities for granting an exceptional federal financial intervention to hospitals in the context of the epidemic. On the basis of this order, by ministerial decree of 21 December 2020, flat-rate intervention amounts were fixed to finance the care of covid patients hospitalized in intensive care units, with a distinction between intensive care beds without respiratory assistance and those provided with them, or with extra-corporal oxygenation by membrane (ECMO). These three packages include the hiring of additional support staff, additional salary costs, costs for guards, overtime, accessory costs, medical equipment, personal protective equipment (masks, gloves, gel, etc.).), support services (cleaning, feeding, sterilization, morgue, waste) and the addition of 5% of the amount relating to the share of the other general costs observed when defining the amounts of the different packages. This measure represents an additional funding of €13,427,000. Another flat-rate intervention has also been planned to cover the costs of the additional activities of hospital care providers, both wage earners and self-employed, including doctors in training. This covers the funding of the usual and additional permanences in the emergency and intensive care services, of training given and followed, of medical coordination of hospital hygiene for the period of March, April, May and June 2020. An exceptional package of availabilities per bed reserved has also been provided to compensate hospital care providers as a result of the obligation to reserve a percentage of the capacity in beds. The total number of ICU beds is 2,001 and 2,090 CHOC beds have been created. In addition to the specific and additional support measures for intensive care unit services taken under the Royal Decree of 30 October 2020 mentioned above, there was the possibility of recruiting additional staff through the White Blouse Fund: health-care personnel, support functions integrated into the care teams, i.e. the personnel included in the standards of service personnel, functions and programmes of hospital care, as well as support staff who assist the health-care personnel in their administrative and logistical tasks recruited to deal with the Coronavirus epidemic. In recognition of the significant efforts made by hospital workers, including those working in intensive care, two financial measures have been planned. The first is aimed at active workers during the first wave of the epidemic and will be carried out by granting consumer cheques of 300 euros. The practical modalities are at the end of the process. The second was the granting of an exceptional incentive premium of 980 euros gross per full-time job to all hospital staff, to encourage the efforts of staff in the second wave. As regards the requests of the hospital centres, please be aware that there is a constant dialogue with the hospital federations through the HTSC Committee and through the questions and requests addressed by the federations in the framework of the meetings of the technical working groups of the Federal Council of Hospital Institutions (CFEH). The Public Health FPS does not have data on sick absences of health care personnel. The HTSC Committee, which monitors the hospital load on a daily basis, stressed in the directive of 23 March last year the importance of the plan for the distribution of covid patients. The distribution should aim to maintain all hospitals at Phase 2A threshold values, and therefore in Phase 1B. The Committee assists hospitals in this process by providing support to federal health inspectors and the Patient Evacuation Coordination Centre. Today, it has been decided to move to phase 1A, with the consequences that this implies. Mrs Van Camp and Mrs Creemers, you had questions about the protective equipment. The initial intention was to make the payment of the protective material for the period from early September to the end of November 2020 at the end of March. As has already been said in plenary, we will not make it. This was communicated to the carers at the meeting of the Insurance Committee on 15 March. It has to do with a negative opinion on a royal decision by the Treasury Inspectorate, which prevented the Royal Decree from being published in good time. That was analyzed. We have given the arguments to the Secretary of State for the Budget. The file is again with the Secretary of State for the Budget. We will call for urgency so that we can continue to deviate from the current procedures with regard to the opinion of the Council of State and so that we can publish the Royal Decree as soon as possible. We do not want to pay without a regulatory basis. As soon as possible, we will announce a new date for the payout. Yesterday it was clarified in the Insurance Committee. So I am not going to give a specific date for publication and payment. Of course, I ask the RIZIV to communicate widely through the website of the RIZIV, so that those involved know how the file is progressing. Mrs Zanchetta and Mrs Rohonyi, with regard to the links between blood groups, the scientists suggest a possible explanation of the increased susceptibility of people in blood group A, but they have remained very cautious in their conclusions. They stated that further research was needed. At this stage, it is too early to put forward a firm and definitive response. The scientific community must continue its work and work to verify what is currently only a hypothesis. As far as we know, no such studies are under way in Belgium. These results currently have no impact. Preventive measures to prevent infections remain the same for all. In case of infection, the blood type does not play a role in the treatment given. We are continuing our vaccination campaign. With regard to telemonitoring, at the end of 2020, an agreement was approved by the INAMI Insurance Committee according to which, as part of a pilot project, covid patients can be monitored at home using telemonitoring. This course of care can be started both before possible hospitalization and after hospitalization. On 21 January, the KCE issued a decision support document for the follow-up of co-vid patients at home. Agreements with different groups of health care providers were concluded in January and February 2020. Agreements have also been concluded with 16 hospitals or groups of health-care providers to finance telesurveillance. This agreement required a monthly report of the number of patients included in INAMI by hospital or group of care providers. Currently, most of these groups of care providers have not yet worked a full month under this agreement and INAMI does not have sufficient figures to give a correct picture of the use of telesurveillance for patients. The criteria for inclusion in the agreement for the telemonitoring of covid-19 patients provide that only patients who can be monitored in their family environment, who are able to control their own state of health or who receive adequate support from nurses or home care providers can benefit from it. For home care of covid-19 patients outside the scope of this agreement, therefore without telemonitoring or outside the INAMI funding framework, we will not have data in the future. With regard to wastewater, the Marseille model is quite different from the model set up in Belgium. The Belgian model covers larger areas and analyses samples over 24 hours on average. As for the follow-up model for sensitive establishments – the Marseilles buildings – you indicate, in particular through quick tests: "It is based on another type of one-off sampling (unless we make a mistake on our part) and only indicates the presence or absence of covid-19 in the building. These are rapid and non-quantitative tests which could not be transposed to the Belgian model." In Belgium, the strategy is to monitor trends in the circulation of the virus – especially on the rise – in our territory, through the monitoring of several densely populated areas, accounting for a total of about 40% of the Belgian population. It is also important to note that it would at present be a nonsense to follow only the presence and absences of SARS-CoV-2 in samples since the virus is present in all samples. We therefore work with SARS-CoV-2 values quantified as a copy of RNA per millilitre. These values are translated on an epidemiological curve "Wastewater" which illustrates the concentrations measured over time. In Belgium, we have been working for several weeks on warning indicators to objectively highlight areas where the circulation in wastewater is worrying and would require a communication for possible decision-making. Once again, our public health strategy is quite different from that of firefighters, whose follow-up is taking place at a more localized level. Indeed, in Marseilles, if the sample is positive when leaving a building, the strategy would be to launch a screening campaign. At home, since our samples cover a total of more than 40% of the population, they always come back positive. We will therefore not apply the same strategy and test the entire population. Some corrections are to be made to many of your statements. At the level of the Belgian model as described above, the samples are taken twice a week. In addition, Sciensano receives the results, cleans them, checks their quality, consolidates them nationally, analyses them and then repartitions them in their completed form with all the partners of the consortium. It is a huge work that is currently mobilising two full-time equivalents. A second correction should be made with respect to your announcement of early detections of 10 to 15 days. These figures appear to be exaggerated and not in line with the literature on the subject. At the level of development of the current and already well advanced monitoring model, the notes taken into account are not limited to dilution. The aim is to report the results to the population drawn by sampling, which is important in order to compare the results between them and also the effects of mobility of people. A person domiciled in an area is not necessarily present in the area on the day of collection. In other words, the measured concentrations of viruses are reported to the actual number of people tracked by sampling. This remains of course on estimates, but we can remove a few notes. Consideration is also given to possible dilution effects that can bias the results by integrating them into the wastewater analysis. The aim of these corrections is to gain confidence in the quality of the results, if the alarm bell was to be pulled. You also talked about the models of Marseille and the Netherlands. The Netherlands model is similar to that in Belgium, unlike the Marseille model. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the Marseille model, unless I am mistaken, was only put in place in this city of France. In any case, it is not widespread at the national level. It therefore represents only a minority of French and is therefore not representative of the overall circulation of the virus in this country. To the best of our knowledge, extending this type of model to more cities would be very costly, since there would be no reference to 42 samples (number of areas monitored in Belgium), but much more. In addition, the cost of the personnel involved in sampling and their travel would have to be taken into account. In short, the model of the Marshal firefighters, although interesting, is very different and is not comparable to the one that has been put in place in our country. The model followed by certain sensitive establishments in Marseilles, which consists of detecting the presence or absence of Sars-Cov-2 in a sample when leaving the buildings via a rapid test, is another strategy of local monitoring carried out at the scale of a city. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions satisfactorily.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u19	Minister, thank you. We have somewhat exceeded the expected time, but the goal was still to receive answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I'm still stuck in my stomach with the non-medical contact professions that have had to close their doors. If one hears Professor Molenberghs say not so long ago that the reopening of hairdressers has no negative effect on the figures, then I wonder what positive effect the closure will have. It's a very regulated environment in which they work. There will be exceptions, and I follow your reasoning that the number of contacts should be limited, but because they follow the measures imposed in most cases, I wonder what effect the closure will have on turning the figures. You said that there were RSZ data, but I am sorry that they are not included. It shows respect for the sector when the whole picture is outlined.? Efforts are being called for from different sectors, while a number of efforts remain that can be made by the public authorities. I am thinking, for example, of wastewater monitoring. I've been asking for that since June 2020. Since then, people have been saying they're working on it. Now almost a year later, it's not ready.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u21	Mrs Gijbels, I do not want to prolong the debate, but do you mean what you are saying? You're very competent, but monitoring the wastewater won't stop any virus. That's very useful and interesting, but will that stop a single virus? No. What stops the viruses is limiting our contacts, including in the contact professions. Please keep your feet on the ground...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u22	Excuse me, Minister, but these are efforts that a government can make to map clusters. Waste water monitoring should be used to prevent the further spread of the virus. It is also used for this in all our neighbouring countries. Are they doing so badly? They also use it as an indicator, alongside everything else. The government has that in its hands, but we've been waiting a year for that. I'm not saying that's the answer, but it's a puzzle piece in the whole. We also see nothing about the barometer, the aim points, the turning points, and that is just so important for the mental resilience of the population. If we want people to persevere and continue to follow the measures, we must also give them a grip. As far as transparency is concerned, we now need to look at the various opinions that are being published on five websites. Why can they not be brought together on one website, so that there is at least a clear overview? There are still several areas of work. It is a pity, therefore, that everything is being passed on to the citizens, who have to make constant efforts, while many yards are still open to the public authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to keep your replies brief, since we want to stop at 8.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u24	Your response to the lack of compensatory measures for home care and the delay was clear. I can only say that I deeply regret that. The last time I checked, that Secretary of State for Budget was in your government, too. Some prior alignment might have avoided that delay. We could have reached the deadline of the end of March, which was extremely important. I found your answers to the question on asylum seekers very selective. I asked if the phasing would happen at the same time. After all, one cannot have both, it is before or after. No clear answer. What about refusals? No answer. As far as costs are concerned, too, there is no answer. That is information that the population is entitled to. I will not fail to ask them again by means of a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u25	Mr President, I will try to be quick, but I would like to mention something. Minister, you say with some dedain that a mandatory number is being set up here by several Members of Parliament. I find it very special that you dare to put it that way and that you have just said to Mr Gijbels that we will not stop the virus in this way. I really do have a tip for you, Minister: to vaccinate, so we will stop the virus. And vaccinate faster. Then I come to the reply to one of the answers you have given on the SII. You have repeated that they were ill-advised proposals. You're nodding again. I do find it special that you take a company that cannot meet the supplies you have agreed with that company as the only source of information to see whether a particular proposal for delivery is malicious or not. I told you: Serbia has already injected those vaccines into the arms of the people, just like the UK. Why are we sitting here? To ensure that we can cooperate as much as possible in resolving this crisis and to ensure that we get out as much as possible. This isn't a mandatory number. We are trying to find solutions. Minister, if I heard your story about the syringes, they would not be of good quality. That's what you said here. I'd like to go over the facts with you sometime. S-Group is the manufacturer of the syringes. It delivers under the name of the group, but also through a distributor. So I will follow you when you say that at the time of the proposal the best sacrifice was EUR 0,39 and that you went along with it. I also follow that a member of the Task Force has contacted the distributor that an offer had been made to deliver the syringes for 33 cents instead of 39 cents and to renegotiate that price. That's what happened. That price was not renegotiated because the distributor held on to his offer. It is said that the same syringes from the same producer are not of good quality, while 3,500 samples have been disposed of in our country and while there has also been approval in Leuven, is completely incorrect. I think you should communicate that correctly. These are the same syringes from the same production site of the same producer. You have missed a possibility here to buy cheaper syringes. Then you can just admit it. Even worse is that the syringes are in Liège today, that nothing happens to them but that there is still a polemic about them. Those are the facts as they are. The i-Cleanswabs are still used. I thought they were still in quarantine. How come they are still being applied?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u26	Minister, I would like to repeat something that I did not ask a question about. I think it is very good that these surveys and surveys really ask for the motives of the doubters, who do not yet know whether they want to have a vaccine put in. If these results come in after the Easter holiday, communication must be adapted accordingly. I also notice it in my environment, doubters get really convinced when their GP explains why it is so important that they are vaccinated. I know the GPs drown in work, but I hope they want to communicate about it this way. I have every confidence in that, too. Then I come to my question about the payments to the care staff for protective equipment. I've heard you say "as soon as possible" a few times. You also say that it is widely communicated through the website of the RIZIV. This can be wider, not only through the website of the RIZIV, but to all healthcare providers who are waiting. I understand that you want to be careful and do the right thing, to prevent mistakes from happening. However, those caregivers are entitled to very clear communication, which goes wider than only through the RIZIV. Finally, Minister, I would like to thank your collaborator for the completeness of the answers. I would also like to congratulate the interpreters and the services for holding out with us for so long.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u27	I will be right because I have received answers to my three small questions. However, I would have liked clarification on one or the other question raised by my colleagues, in particular Mrs Fonck. I have no doubt she'll come back with other lights. I thank the minister and his collaborator, as well as all the members of the committee and certainly the staff of the House, for staying with us this late again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u28	Mr President, I will not prolong the debate. I got an answer. I certainly expected more clarification on the AstraZeneca question, but I will listen to this part again. We will remain attentive to the various studies under way or which will be, as it is true that today it is difficult to provide an answer. I also thank the services of the House and the Minister for staying.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u29	Mr President, I would also like to thank everyone, the Minister, his collaborator, the services, the interpreters, my mother and anyone who has ever given me training so that I have arrived here, but that is quite aside. I wish to thank the Minister for all the answers he has given me. Most of my questions were answered. I have even received an answer to a question which has been assigned to me, but which I have not even asked. That's a unique thing, too. But if certain questions have not been answered, I will certainly come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your answers to many of my questions. There are still some answers, particularly on the mobile vaccination teams. You touched them for a moment, but my question was actually about the mobile vaccination teams set up from the Defence Department. I will put this question again so that you can give me an answer next time. I also asked a question about the impact on our figures of the number of foreign patients in our hospitals. I didn't get an answer to that either. As far as my supplementary questions are concerned, you have not been able to prepare them, but perhaps you can answer them. You left me in the dark there too. There is one question I would like to ask, particularly the vaccination of 16-17-year-olds who are at risk. I have received a testimony from a mother with a child who spends the weekend in boarding school for young people in need. In that boarding school all 18-plussers were vaccinated, but the 16- and 17-year-olds were not allowed to be vaccinated, because the government does not allow that. However, the EEA allows the Pfizer vaccine to be used for that group. You say that we will start in April with the young people with underlying diseases. It's April the day after tomorrow. It is a pity that vaccinations could not happen in one movement and that we should go back to those institutions for the 16 and 17-year-olds. I think it's a waste of time. It is a pity that you did not give me an answer to that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u31	Mrs Gilson, you were not there when the questions were asked and therefore did not get answers to your questions. Perhaps the minister will be able to respond after the reply. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u32	Mr President, please excuse me for being able to join you only during a meeting. The questions were already asked. Mrs. Taquin very kindly offered to take the time for the reply. Minister, I have heard a part of the response on the biodefense program of studying the variants of coronavirus. The programme, called HERA Incubator, would bring together laboratories, health authorities, scientists and the European Commission. I heard that you clearly mentioned the need for pooling resources and research. Health Europe does not exist, it is not part of the European Union's remit, but, fortunately, in July last year the Member States entrusted the task of jointly purchasing vaccines to the European Commission. I do not know whether Belgium alone could have bought them, or where we would be at this stage. However, in terms of production and research, Europe is far behind other authorities. I would therefore like to know if you had any contact with your European counterparts with regard to the European Commission's proposal to set up a European authority responsible for preparedness and response in the event of a health emergency. I am thinking of what exists in the United States: the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA), which has played a key role in vaccine production and research. Of course, the financial resources are enormous. Do you already have any exchanges with your European colleagues on the subject? Do you think that we could hope for a pooling of resources large enough to be able to weigh on the global scale in relation to this biomedical research which will, I assume, become more and more important? Minister, thank you. If you don't have the answers at this point, I'll come back at another time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u33	The answer is absolutely positive. The initiative of HERA Incubator (the HERA incubator) is important and excellent that we support. We have said so, particularly at informal meetings of health ministers - I said it, I have supported it very explicitly - our Prime Minister supports this initiative. That has been said everywhere. We also have contacts. I have had it myself, with officials hired by the European Commission to promote this initiative. Moreover, in the scientific networks that have been mobilised, there are also Belgian researchers who play an important role and with whom I am also in almost permanent contact. So the answer to your questions is yes, it is absolutely very important and I think you have rightly pointed out it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u34	Minister, thank you. In the tone of my question, you will have understood that you have all our support to exploit this trail. I am convinced that it is essential to be able to offer a valid health policy to our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u35	Mr Minister, this exercise has definitely not brought much in terms of updating the information we receive on an ongoing basis. I feel like you're doing a reading exercise. I always come with news items that you don't respond to. I will quickly mention certain elements. There are still outstanding issues, even though they should have been resolved for weeks on positive cured patients, the vaccination of teachers and nursery staff. I pay attention to the organization of vaccination of under 65s with different pathologies. There are four different sources. This could be the risk of telescopeing in all directions. The reality today is that caregivers are really under maximum pressure. There's all the patients calling. Some have selected five per week already in the last few weeks. Anyway! I fear that major organizational difficulties will come with patients who remain on the side and others who will be vaccinated. I draw your attention to this because I see the problems coming and, obviously, no one among the big organizers, the ministers, sees it. So I'm paying attention to it. As for the fact of involving general practitioners, there is still no opening on your part, while the Johnson & Johnson vaccine is coming. I'm telling you, it's incomprehensible. This will obviously remain an incomprehension. Too bad you don't get up to date! Sometimes you answer me with a form of contempt, minister, but, as far as AstraZeneca is concerned, these last days have delivered new data, especially today in Germany. The whole question is whether we should not re-examine the benefits in relation to the risks, particularly in relation to age, and for the younger ones. I also wonder whether we should not ask ourselves again, in Belgium, on the basis of the data of recent days on complications at European level. As for monoclonal antibodies, you tell me, a little like I'm an idiot, that it's not clinically validated. Belgium must be one of the only European countries that has not ordered it. I would remind you that the EMA gave a particularly important opinion; it was at the end of February. With regard to the premium for intervention in the cost of equipment for nurses, I hope that you will now make up for your delay. Finally, no, you will not be able to catch up; I hope that you will act as quickly as possible. I would still like to give you a testimony that I just received, just an hour ago, from an independent nurse, who did not receive any bonuses or interventions for the cost of protective equipment. This shows how the promises that have been made are still not fulfilled for a number of them. Compared to the caregivers on the ground, whatever they are, and including the self-employed, I find it wrong! I don't know why it doesn't follow, but it's a real problem. I take the opportunity to pass on this testimony to you, to make you more attentive, to see where it gets stuck and why it gets stuck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic429x.u36	I thank the services of the House, the minister and the members who have remained to the end. Above all, I thank the staff: the translators, the staff of the proceedings and the committee services.
