ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u1	Mr President, Minister, on 11 March Eneco announced that it would have shut down the Seamade wind farm between 12.00 p.m. and 1 p.m. You responded via Belga with an admonition to the nuclear power stations. In the meantime, more details have come in. This showed, among other things, that the interconnection to Germany was not used at all and that the interconnection capacity to France would have worked only for a very small part. It is also reported that the platform had problems between the TSOs, which did not ensure optimal use of interconnection capacity. You even referred to it in plenary. You said the market coupling was not available. The shutdown that Eneco cited is not reflected in Elia's figures. At most there is a limited deviation of about half an hour for 200 megawatts. It is striking that it is then reported in the press. I also note in the figures that there was a record production of low carbon energy. If I'm right, about 12 gigawatts of low-carbon energy were produced in this country and partly delivered to different neighbouring countries. Has there been an effective wind farm shutdown? How much power was switched off and at what times? There are journalists who say it was about 80 megawatts or 16 % of the Seamade wind farm. Was there an effective problem with the allocation of interconnection capacity that may explain the non-use of the interconnection with France, in combination with maintenance at ALEGrO? Can you confirm that nearly 12 gigawatts of low-carbon electricity were delivered to the grid and partly to our neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u2	Mr President, Minister, I was also present in the plenary debate on the amendments to the CRM Act. You then praised the flexibility of gas plants. I thought it was a bit strange that you said at the time of your arrival that the CRM was absolutely technology-neutral and that during the nearly-nightly debate again reference was made to the super-flexibleness of gas plants, which could go hand in hand with offshore production. Can you explain more about the how, how much and why of the reported shutdown? Can you give more details on the potential problems with interconnection capacity? I have seen that my colleague put a free gallery in one of the many Internet forums in the last few days. He says there was a problem with the available market coupling. He just outlined that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u3	Minister, on March 11, the country found itself in a situation of surplus energy, pushing electricity prices below zero. While the wind was profuse, the offshore wind turbines at SeaMade Park had to be stopped, while at the same time, our nuclear power plants continued to run at full speed. What do you think of the decision of Eneco Belgium, which decided to cut offshore wind turbines on March 11th? Although electricity demand in neighbouring countries was probably quite low on 11 March, it turns out that the export of excess electricity produced by our offshore wind turbines would not have been possible due to computer concerns. Have you been informed of this problem? Can you tell us more? CRM will encourage gas-fired power plants. These would by nature be more flexible than nuclear reactors. Does this mean that a situation such as the one known 12 days ago will no longer occur and that renewable energy will have priority over the grid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u4	"Never before had the wind turbines in this country produced so much electricity, but at the same time, the energy company Eneco announced that the marine wind farm was "almost completely closed" for an hour on 11 March due to negative prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u5	Thank you for your answers"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u6	Mr President, members of the committee, today's topical and urgent debate is on 11 March and perhaps 13 March. I'll talk about both. It is not the first time we have talked about this phenomenon. We have also discussed it in connection with the debate on the CRM. Nor is it the first time that we in this committee have talked about reducing offshore wind capacity as a result of a combination of circumstances. On 29 April 2020, we even had an extensive hearing in this committee on the impact of the corona crisis on the energy market. In my answer, I first come to the questions of understanding the precise circumstances, the reasons, the causes and the solutions. However, I would also like to look ahead and address the outlook for the summer and the general issue of flexibility and inflexibleness and availability or unavailability. I shall begin with the situation on 11 March. On March 11, 12 gigawatts of electricity were delivered to the grid at noon. It consisted of 6 gigawatts nuclear, 4 gigawatts wind and 2 gigawatts sun. A part of the wind farms, about 150 megawatts, was switched off between 12 and 13 hours at the request of the balancer, due to too negative prices at the Day Ahead Market. I note that on that day all the flexible capacity was regulated during those hours, except the nuclear power stations. At the meeting of the user group of March 19th of Elia, the Working Group on Electricity Market Design and System Operation, a great deal of thought was also given to what happened on those days. That's just publicly available information. Elia refers to the negative prices on the Day Ahead Market and to three main causes. First, a fully available nuclear park combined with strong wind conditions... we were almost in storm conditions.. for a surplus. There was more supply than demand. On that day there was an effective new record for offshore wind in our country, namely more than 4 gigawatts. Secondly, the flow-based market coupling inputs did not operate throughout the day on 11 March and for five hours on 13 March, thus falling back on default cross-border capacity. This is about an IT problem. A third element is the maintenance of ALEGRO, which was planned from 0700 hours on 11 March, which further reduced the cross-border capacity. The causes of machine coupling difficulties were examined and resolved. By March 11, this was a computer server problem that caused the application of 10 volt parameters and was corrected, so it should not happen again. For 13 March, exceptional weather conditions resulted in too large a gap between the actual situation of the same day and the reference day - for example, "short wind against too much wind". The coupling algorithm was not intended. In the meantime, this problem has been solved in the algorithm itself, by adjusting certain margins of tolerance, but it continues to be examined with a view to further reducing the risk. Mrs Dierick referred to her written question, but I would like to say what her question was about before the debate. Her question was about nuclear modulation and the resolution which she put to the vote. I think this was before the summer, in July 2020. Three points were asked of the government. Firstly, to investigate potential overcapacity on the Belgian network, which is to be expected and which would effectively lead to the reduction of production in wind and solar parks. Secondly, to carry out an investigation into the possible modulation of the Belgian nuclear power plants. Thirdly, to report to the Chamber of Representatives within six months. Mrs Dierick, I should like to apologize, because it slipped my mind that we approved it. Following the adoption of that resolution, my administration had not previously been instructed to work on this. However, I do have a number of elements that could enable us to go further on the basis of your resolution. First, Elia's ademucy and flexibility study, which is carried out every two years. The last one dates from June 2019 and we expect the new version in June of this year. Moreover, in the CRM debates, we discussed in detail the adequacy and flexibility, which we naturally expect in the context of our CRM work. In this study we always look at the security of supply, when it comes to adequacy and flexibility, but also at the adequacy of available capacity. It is therefore also examined whether the system is capable of meeting the growing variability of production from renewable energy sources. The study shall also determine, inter alia, the necessary capacity which can be adjusted downwards and how it relates to the must-run capacity. Here I would like to make the bridge with the Summer Outlook that Elijah made for the summer and which has been discussed in the working group over the past week, where they have looked at what can actually be expected in the coming months, from May to August. There are a number of elements that will be important in the coming months, and that is four. First, the revision of Coo from 15 April to 15 July. Secondly, high nuclear availability in the coming months. Thirdly, lower demand during the summer months. Fourthly, an installed capacity of renewable energy, which is increasing. Elia concludes that there is an increased risk of non-computability in the months from May to August, with exports not expected to be sufficient for one on the four weekends. In one on four weekends, because of the factors I have just mentioned, production will be higher than demand. In fact, export capacity is not sufficient to ensure that the balance is maintained. They also looked at what the mitigating factors were. That's what interests us here. There's a total of five. Firstly, optimum use of pumped storage, storage capacity. You can if Coo isn't in revision. Secondly, exports in the event that there is no pan-European surplus. Thirdly, nuclear modulation, wind power switch-off and CHP switch-off. Fourthly, the surplus can lead to negative prices, which can then ensure that the balance-holders take action. That happened here on 11 March. A negative price has caused the balance to be judged: I will switch off. That's how the balance began to re-establish. Fifthly, there are possibilities in the imbalance procedure: settlement actions that are then provoked. Ladies and gentlemen, the reason for your questions was that the market link did not work and the ALEGRO project was under maintenance. So perhaps it could be said that this was a confluence of circumstances. That is what we discussed in plenary. But even in the summer, if we have a well-functioning market link, there will be days when our export capacity will not suffice. With the full availability of all nuclear power stations there will be large surpluses at weekends on windy and sunny days. These can lead to negative prices, and even to the adjustment of capacity, either nuclear units, insofar as the moment in the fuel cycle allows them to be regulated, or through the expansion of windmills and cogeneration. What is perhaps an exception today, on days with a lot of wind and solar energy, will happen more and more. This shows one thing, namely that we really need additional flexibility in our country. We also need a debate on this flexibility. I'm making the bridge to your resolution again, Mrs Dierick. My proposal is that, once the adequacy and flexibility study is available, we look more broadly at overcapacity. Not only in winter, but also in summer. When we held that hearing with the various players on 29 April, that was also what the speaker of ENGIE said. We have surpluses that are possible under winter conditions, but just as well under summer conditions. Flexibility is therefore necessary in all circumstances. Your other point concerns the possibility of modulation of Belgian nuclear power plants. To this end, I would like to raise a point that we discussed here in committee on 29 April 2020 and on which I will ask the CREG. Indeed, it concerns a data of market transparency, namely the availability of production capacity and the availability or unavailability of flexibility. At that time, the Director of the CREG, Andreas Tirez, confirmed that the rules on the availability of production and unavailability of flexibility are covered by the REMIT rules. It is important to me that all market players have sufficient insight into availability and unavailability. To date, I have been asked how we can work on transparency. We discussed this at the meeting of 29 April 2020. Mr President, is there a written report on this? I've been looking for a written report, but I haven't found it. So I just revisited the video report. That was fascinating. We were all at home then. We were all a little thin back then. I certainly was, because I had been very sick at the time. However, the item was discussed at that time. Mrs Dierick, in the context of your second point, I will ask the CREG about her views. With regard to the examination of the possibility of modulation, I believe that I am also looking at Mr Wollants in his capacity as chairman of the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety, which could in the meantime be sufficiently clear as to what the conditions are for this. The FANC has already explained this here at various times. However, Mrs Dierick, that does not alter the fact that I take your resolution to heart. Specific to overcapacity, we will be able to come back around the summer when the adequacy and flexibility study is available.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u7	Madam Minister, I have some elements of answer. The situation has demonstrated the importance of market coupling for a country like this. One of the problems identified was not only the unavailability of this link, but above all that one could not anticipate. At that time no bids could be made to take that into account, which, of course, has made some of the problems even worse than they should have been. It is therefore absolutely essential to work on this. I think you have a point in terms of flexibility. We must ensure greater flexibility. We passed a law on this in the previous legislature, but there is still work to be done in terms of its effective impact and optimisation. As far as REMIT is concerned, I have asked a number of times about the modulation, whether it should be logged into REMIT. The previous minister replied that this should not be done. I do not know whether that is wise, because the market players need to know whether or not they are being modulated in order to respond to it. You might want to take a closer look at that. Finally, the availability of a number of units and the switch-off of CHP should be reviewed. However, what I am most concerned about is how our pumping capacity is controlled today. I do not know if you have seen it, but it is being communicated today that Coo's integral pumping capacity will be unavailable from 15 April to 15 July. That might be a problem. In this respect, I would advise you to have the necessary discussions to see what that means for flexibility. As you know, the nuclear power stations were built at the same time as that pumping plant, just for that reason. That is where we need to maintain a good link.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u8	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer, which unfolds a whole programme on the issue of flexibility for the coming months. The adequacy and flexibility study of June can be an excellent coat rack. You have also synthesized Elia's Summer Outlook well. I think it is also important that Mrs Dierick's resolution, which has disappeared somewhat in a desk drawer, should be taken back to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u9	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u10	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u11	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u12	(...) two conclusions which are very important to us. Madam Minister, first of all, you are right to say that we are in a changing production market. We must use CRM and other factors to improve flexibility. Secondly, the shutting down of windmills once again gives rise to a debate in Parliament. That is an interesting observation and it shows that many groups feel that shutting down windmills is particularly unnatural. It's about feeling like we're wasting a natural resource. This observation proves the importance of green energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u13	Mrs Marghem, allow me to clarify the following. What I said was that you indicated in the previous legislature that the modulation of nuclear power stations should not be reported in REMIT. In doing so, I did not make a statement on flexibility in general, nor on the use or non-use of flexibility. Reporting a modulation in REMIT is another thing. That's what my statement was about.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u14	Mr Wollants, that puts the translation in a proper context. Mrs. Marghem said the translation wasn't working.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u15	Mr. President, I understand better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u16	Is that better, Mrs. Marghem? The house does not stand back before any sacrifice!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u17	Madam Minister, the timing for providing sufficient capacity for security of supply, with respect for sustainability and affordability, is a particularly precarious one. This has already been demonstrated in the debate on the coalition agreement, and it has come back a few more times afterwards. At that time it was cited that there was still time to look at it, but the truth is that the clock is ticking and that many elements are not clear today. Nor does the government propose any alternative slopes. The fall-back position in the coalition agreement is a possible extension of life if supply is not guaranteed, but it is not planned properly. The Prime Minister indicated that, if the two youngest plants were to be extended in November, it would be up to the operator to bear the responsibility for this much too tight timing, as a kind of normal business risk. For the record, it's about 2,000 megawatts, about 16% of consumption. It is therefore proposed that the failure of the capacity mechanism would somehow relieve the government of its responsibility. We are currently seeing the consequences of that kind of statement, because Engie has already announced that he will have a depreciation for the two youngest nuclear power plants, given the wording of the core exit in the coalition agreement. Another reason is, of course, that there was no timely green light for that operation. Although more time is needed to achieve that lifetime extension, the decision was maintained in November 2021. Several sources indicate that this timing can no longer be met by 2025, but we have actually got no further in the debate than the denial of the difficult timeline for the extension. The direct result is that Engie first put the investments in the life-cycle extension at an extremely low rate and now carried out a depreciation of EUR 2.9 billion. Of course, that can also be seen as a value destruction. The whole dossier has also been very often asked about the progress of the discussions on the State aid case concerning the capacity compensation mechanism at the European Commission, but unless I am mistaken, you can only tell us that the file is still ongoing and that there are at most sporadic discussions. I do not have the impression that it is entirely well structured or clear when it takes place. This means that we still have no certainty today whether the European Commission will approve this dossier, let alone whether the planned gas plants, which are said to be mainly gas-fired capacity, will be built in time. If, in November or even after, there is still a problem of security of supply, then I think the government will stand against the wall with its back. If we then have to negotiate with the operator, then we are in a difficult situation. The government agreement states that a decision will be taken in November, but other deadlines in the file have already been exceeded. That is far from certain. That only makes it more difficult, colleagues. In this case, it will be particularly difficult to achieve a balanced agreement, as we have been able to do in extending the lifespan of Objective 1 and Objective 2. The Energy Transition Fund is the best proof of this. You're very fond of using that. How can the State, in this context, make a sound agreement in the interests of our citizens and our businesses? The issue has been pending for a long time. We have talked a great deal about this in our committee. The idea of having a number of bold discussions in advance has also been discussed here. The committee even decided unanimously a while ago to organise hearings in order to get the whole issue sorted out, although I admit that the formation of government has changed a number of things and that certain parties have had to pay a certain price. That door must have closed again. The question is only, even in your logic, which is in the coalition agreement today, whether that is wise. That brings me to a number of questions. Madam Secretary, how does the government estimate Engie's depreciation? What are the direct consequences if, in November, the government permits the extension of life? In all communications, I hear you saying more and more that at least five of the seven power stations will be shut down. This means that it is still possible that two of the seven remain open. You must be able to guide that in a good way. Do you also hold on to the time of decision in November? Will there not be any decisive discussion there until then, even if your negotiating position becomes particularly unfavourable, if you decide to extend it in November? Has the government already approved the European Commission for State aid under the CRM dossier? Are there any concrete commitments regarding the timing of the decision by the European Commission? Can you explain it to me?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u18	The decision to reduce nuclear investment is no surprise as it meets the legal requirements of the 2003 Law on the gradual abolition of nuclear energy for industrial electricity production. The depreciation in question concerned goodwill in relation to the core exit already laid down in the law since 2003, which was in the books. Therefore, I do not see what the direct consequences would be if, after the first CRM auction and after the detailed report, the government had to activate the fall-back scenario if there were an unexpected security of supply problem, particularly in view of Engie's own statements. I refer to Engie's press release of 26 February, the day that the depreciation on goodwill was communicated. Managing Director MacGregor said:"Le Groupe s'est montré capable à la fois d'asurer la continuité des services essentials et de définir une nouvelle orientation stratégique visant à se simplifier et à renforcer son rôle dans la transition énergétique. We had a good start in 2021 and we expect a significant improvement in financial performance. While continuing our work to improve our performance, we will focus on completing ongoing strategic reviews in order to create more value and effectively allocate our capital for growth, especially in renewables, infrastructure and asset-based activities in customer solutions. ENGIE remains committed to Belgium and to contributing to the country's security of supply. In addition to renewable energy, the Group is also developing up to 3 GW of gas-fired power plant projects. These projects could participate in the auctions linked to the establishment in Belgium of the capacity compensation market in the second half of this year, once approved by the European authorities." So I note that ENGIE Electrabel subscribes to the government agreement and takes the necessary actions to prepare the core exit and at the same time has plans to invest in production, for example through renewable energy and others. ENGIE Electrabel has always been an important player in the Belgian energy market and has all the assets to remain so. Our country, together with Europe, has a clear goal of 100% renewable energy by 2050. ENGIE Electrabel participates in these plans and continues to assume its responsibility for security of supply. In addition, I also get signals from many others that the market is moving and that market players are fully preparing for the change in the Belgian energy landscape. As far as the questions on the approval of the CRM by the European Commission are concerned, I have said on several occasions that the discussions are ongoing, with a view to a positive decision on state aid by summer. They are also very constructive and I do not see any reason to anticipate the decision of November and to engage in talks with ENGIE, as you suggest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u19	Madam Minister, your answer does not surprise me at all, but I think we are going to be very slippery, because today we have no guarantee that this approval will be forthcoming or in what way it will come. That is why you made it very clear in your draft law of two weeks ago that you will stop the whole operation if the European Commission takes a negative decision. So you're not so sure. I don't know which way it'll go. In addition, this passage is included in the coalition agreement in the event of something unexpected happening in terms of security of supply, that certain power stations or projects would not participate or that there is much doubt that they will be realised and that their word will be kept. I believe that you will do everything in your power to ensure that this is possible, but of course it does not involve an emergency brake. Doing your best to make sure it's okay doesn't mean it's gonna be okay. I do everything I can every day not to set my own house on fire and yet I pay for my fire insurance, while you will see the problem of fire insurance when the flames hit the roof. I think that is a wrong choice, and if one goes into a situation where it goes wrong, then we will pay double for it. This can be avoided by talking about it now and at least defining the framework in which it could be done, without making that decision. As you know, any extension of a nuclear power plant that has taken place in this country has been carried out on the basis of a number of discussions before the legal framework was amended. That makes sense to me, too. If negotiations are to begin at a time when there is no alternative, because the law has been amended or because security of supply is in difficulty, then we will not be able to reap all the benefits of extending the lifespan and then we will find ourselves in a very difficult situation. I understand, of course, that this is a far-from-your-bed show for you, something that will never happen, but that's just like burning down my house. I also hope that never happens. That is why I have therefore prepared a motion for a recommendation, which I will table, so that the Chamber can take a decision on it at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u20	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Bert Wollants and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr. Bert Wollants and the reply of the Minister for Energy, - having regard to ENGIE's announcement that it has put the preparations for a possible lifetime extension for Objective 4 and Tihange 3 on a low footing and the depreciation it has currently carried out for these assets; - having regard to the absence of a decision of the European Commission on the notified State aid case relating to the capacity mechanism, - having regard to the fact that the Government will take a decision on the extension of lifespan in November 2021; - having regard to the fact that a negotiation on the modalities of such an extension of life under severe pressure of time affects the negotiating position of the State; - having regard to the fact that this strategy will not enable the government to reap all the benefits of such an extension of life; asks the government - launch bold calls with the core operators on the modalities of a possible lifetime extension; - adopt a clear calendar within which these talks can be conducted and establish a clear timeline for the decision on the extension of life and the necessary procedural steps to enable them to be carried out; - report quarterly to the Chamber of Representatives on the progress of these actions." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Bert Wollants and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Bert Wollants and the response of the Minister of Energy, - since ENGIE has announced that it has prepared a possible extension of the lifespan of Doel 4 and Tihange 3 and has recently reduced the value of these assets; - in view of the absence of a decision by the European Commission on the notified State aid dossier on the capacity mechanism; - since the government will take a decision on extending the life of power plants in November 2021; - since negotiating the modalities for such an extension of the life of power plants under extremely tight deadlines will negatively influence the position of the State in these negotiations; - since this strategy will not allow the government to reap all the benefits of such an extension; asks the government - launch exploratory discussions with nuclear operators on the modalities for a possible extension of life; - to establish a clear timetable for these discussions and to set an equally clear time line for the decision on the extension of life and the necessary steps in the procedure which will allow this extension; - to report every three months on the progress of these actions to the House of Representatives." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Samuel Cogolati. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Samuel Cogolati. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u21	Mr President, Minister, many things were added to the presentation of Elijah's annual results in the margins. We're gonna have to talk about something. You have already explained everything about the strategic project for a multifunctional energy island in the Princess Elisabeth zone in our Energy Committee. It becomes a plaque tournante, as you described it, for the connection with the future wind turbines and thus replaces the MOG II, the second outlet at sea. It concerns transmission, storage, production and interconnection and plays a role in the future story of the link with Denmark. You aim at 100 million euros of subsidy from the Belgian relay plan. Has the European Commission already expressed its views on this? The final plan is due to be submitted by 30 April, but signals of critical scrutiny of the plan have already appeared in the press. An important fact on the day of the presentation of the results was the cost, as for the first time a cost was mentioned, in particular 400 to 450 million euros, and about 1.1 billion euros with electrical installations. There was an immediate discussion. Elia acknowledged that the initial estimated cost is higher than that of the totality of initially planned power outlets in the Princess Elisabeth Zone, but that a lower scale would be cheaper. According to you, the construction of the island should not entail additional costs for the final consumer. Madam Minister, could you explain to me your insistence that the possible construction of that energy hub should not entail additional costs for the final consumer? How can the financing, or its transfer, be realised?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u22	Mr Ravyts, the federal government has asked Elia to further examine the feasibility of this project and to start it. This project aims to build an offshore energy hub, through partial funding through the Recovery Plan for Europe, the so-called Next Generation EU, and the Restoration and Resilience Facility, in the jargon abbreviated to RRF. That project responds to the concrete need for an appropriate infrastructure for expected offshore production in the Princess Elisabeth zone. Moreover, the project offers Belgium an important opportunity to develop other activities, and it can be a catalyst for the growth of our companies and our economy. The project is therefore fully in line with our ambition to transform our economy with a view to an energy transition and contributes to the fight against climate warming. At this stage, the federal government intends to grant EUR 100 million for the implementation of the project. Such aid will be granted solely for the purpose of achieving the transmission infrastructure and thus not for the realisation of other activities. One of the conditions for approving this project is that it should not cost more to the electricity consumer than the alternative on the table, namely the MOG II. The MOG II, with three platforms, is replaced by that energy hub, provided that the final result is always more positive. The partial financing of the project through the Recovery Plan for Europe should ensure that the above conditions are met.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u23	So the question remains whether Elia will be able to offer that guarantee. Indeed, Elia argues that the initial estimated cost is higher than that of the total of the initially planned power outlets. It is good that you have repeated the conditions and that you have made it clear that this EUR 100 million will only be used for the implementation of the transmission infrastructure. The question remains open. We will certainly come back to this in the next few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u24	Madam Minister, Elia has announced that it would have a solution for sharing solar energy between users in order to improve the efficiency of solar panels owners. The platform that it developed for this purpose should enable users to share production with consumers who, at the time of the production of the power by the PV owner, need power to consume themselves. It does somewhat the eyebrows frown, because it seems that Elia has worked here without any alignment with initiatives that are already running in the regions and without alignment with the commercial market. One can also ask whether it is for Elia to take such an initiative, given that there is an initiative in Flanders at the exact same time. I think that the draft decree on this matter was approved in committee last week. That's a bit of a weird thing to do. Of course, solutions are to be welcomed, but is it the way in which that should have been done? Undoubtedly it was easy for Elijah to work that out, without looking for alignment, under the motto "only one goes faster." First of all, what was the specific assignment you gave to Elijah? Secondly, can you indicate the specific solution worked out by Elijah? Thirdly, the improvement in efficiency was quantified and if so, what is the size of the benefits? Fourthly, can you indicate with which partners Elijah has coordinated and checked how that can be done? When were the actors contacted? What period have they been given to provide input? Fifth, has Elijah taken into account the framework which has already been developed or is being developed by the regional governments?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u25	Elia recently proposed the test results of a digital platform that allows data exchange in the context of sharing with third parties electricity generated via solar panels. It is specifically about his innovation project Internet of Energy, in which Elia apparently works together with distribution system operators on solutions to maximise the benefits of the energy transition. We are, of course, talking about energy suppliers and the provision of sub-contracts. As a result of the project, you stated that you want to contribute to the necessary restoration of the confidence of the solar panels owners. In recent days we have indeed been able to see that the abolition of the reverse counter leads to a peppered invoice for a number of people. The confidence can therefore certainly be increased. You have apparently asked Elijah to work on solutions to improve efficiency. Mr Wollants pointed out that the concept of solar panels, local energy communities and energy cooperatives is regulated at regional level. However, I have always been told that a number of legislative measures are a federal competence. Last week, the draft decree regulating the transposition of the fourth electricity directive and the renewable energy directive at the Flemish level was adopted. There is therefore a decrepit framework for active customers and energy communities. Can you explain your question to Elia to work on solutions regarding the efficiency of solar panels? Was there indeed agreement with the Flemish government? Think of the regional regulatory framework, which is already in the process of completion. Was there any coordination with the network operators and the suppliers? What legislation at the federal level concerns the different facets of the sun parts and should therefore be amended or even designed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u26	"Only you go faster and together you move on," says an African saying. This is particularly true of this dossier. Elia has developed an ecosystem called the Internet of Energy in collaboration with the DNBs. The network operators together with many market players are looking at the realisation of innovative projects, which aim to provide new services for electricity consumers. A second project identification round was launched within that Internet of Energy ecosystem in October 2020. At present, 8 business consortia from the energy sector, but also from other sectors, in total more than 40 companies, were selected to develop new innovative projects in order to offer new services to consumers. At the end of April 2021, an expert panel will review the results of that idea phase and then determine who can proceed to the small-scale test phase. This will be a test of the technological bottlenecks, but also of the market's interest in the solutions proposed. One of the projects in question is similar to what Decathlon and Zero Emission Solutions have already achieved, namely the purchase of the excess production from solar panels, in exchange for shop purchase vouchers, with the ambition going a little further. The aim is therefore to ensure that these exchanges take place without requiring the suppliers concerned to be the same. In the margins of its annual meeting on business results 2019, Elia has made progress on the various major projects she realises. In this context, in response to the question whether current developments within IO.Energy could provide a solution to the problem of the reversing counters in Flanders, Elia stated that at least part of the solutions could be put forward. Through a digital communication platform, it should be possible to exchange over-production of solar panels with a third party of your choice via an energy block exchange within the foreseeable future. Very specific means that a solar panel owner is given the opportunity to exchange his overproduction with someone of his choice, for example a family member or companies, through a trade agreement, who do not have solar panels themselves. For example, the production of solar panels would compensate for a larger energy volume. This solution is being studied jointly by network operators and market players. Elijah also confirms that he had had contacts with the regulators on this dossier. It is a collaboration between distribution system operators and regulators. As far as federal legislation is concerned, the technical market rules on allocation and nomination are of course involved. The allocation or allocation of electricity to suppliers is carried out by Elia in the context of the balancing obligations of the suppliers. The network operators therefore collect the measurement data and provide the allocation data to Elia. Thus, it is under Elijah's balance responsibility that market players are paid for the energy quantities that their customers have purchased and how much energy they have put on the grid for that purpose. Allocation and nomination are among the basic elements of our federal technical regulations. That is where the end of the functioning of our electricity market lies. It is in that allocation that energy blocks can still be exchanged: too much can be transferred from one market player to another. With the Internet of Energy initiative, Elia brings that opportunity, which it has been offering for many years as a training platform to the major market players, to the level of individual network users. That seems to me to be a key to the real parts of the sun and, as far as I am concerned, should or should be seen as a strengthening of regional initiatives to this end. So I have a warm heart for the Internet of Energy. They are such innovative solutions, where solar surpluses can lead to solar bonuses, which can restore confidence. Those solutions are needed, because we need a lot more renewable energy. I will always think about solutions, because only one goes faster, but one goes further together, as has been said here. Only in this way will citizens be helped effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u27	Madam Minister, I understand from your explanation that the initiative stems from Elijah's own work and that you have not given it a specific mandate. My contacts teach me that Elia only made the link to the Flemish level one day before the initiative was announced. It is difficult to say that this is serious, especially since it is well known that the EMD draft decree has already been approved by the Flemish Government on several occasions and is now going to the Flemish Parliament. So it can't be that hard for Elia to work a little more together just to get a little further into the file. I welcome any solution that comes forward, but I do not believe that this problem can only be tackled at the federal level. We will never be able to do that, we need the Regions to do that, and I am sorry that Elijah only lets us know one day in advance that it will launch something. It could have been otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u28	Madam Secretary, I can join my colleague. That EMD decree passed for the first time in October 2020 as a draft in the Flemish Council of Ministers. The way in which Elijah communicated about this is indeed curious. In itself, it is theoretical, and also practical, complementary to regional initiatives. It is also right that the key to sharing solar energy lies with that balance responsibility. It is good that you have explained this again, but I also regret that Elia has done so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u29	Mr Piedboeuf, your question is about the social rate and its application for institutions that accommodate and accommodate people with disabilities. This is not the first time that the social tariff has been discussed in this committee, and I welcome your interest in this matter. I fully share this interest and note that all these questions have the same purpose: how can we prevent categories of people entitled to the social rate from passing between the meshes of the net? The social rate for electricity and natural gas is only applicable to the final residential customer. This means that he must have entered into a contract on his own behalf, for his own use, with an energy supplier. In practice, it seems that the situation is often as follows: persons with disabilities who are entitled to the social rate and who reside in an institution do not benefit from the social rate in that residence. However, the parents of these persons do benefit from the social rate if their disabled child is domiciled at home. Many institutions have a professional energy contract. The real question is whether there are any problems in practice. This would be the case if neither the disabled person himself nor the responsible parents or persons benefited from the social rate. That is why I will consult with my colleague, Mr Dermagne, various actors on the ground, for example the Service for the fight against poverty, precariousness and social exclusion, in order to check whether there are situations where people pass through the meshes of the net. I would add that the Roi Baudouin Foundation's platform to combat energy insecurity is preparing a study on the social tariff. Given that these care institutions fall within the competence of the regional authorities, it seems to me logical that we should also consult the Regions in order to arrive at an effective solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u30	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u31	Mr President, Minister, this question was prompted by WindEurope's communication. Although the degradation of large-scale wind turbines and their possible replacement is still relatively limited in the Belgian context, a significant increase is expected from the period 2025-2030, when the first wind farms installed at that time have to be abandoned at sea. In Europe, moreover, a significant amount of wind energy is rapidly ageing and reaching the end of its expected lifespan. WindEurope clearly states that, if we want to safeguard more of the existing capacity, we must tackle the issue of the end of life better. Repowering is therefore on the agenda. On 4 and 5 November 2021, a seminar will be held in Brussels on issues and strategies concerning the end of the life of wind turbines. My question concerns the final decommissioning and recyclability of windmill blades. The existing sales channels are currently limited to the use as filler in building materials and in the cement industry. Above all, it is a challenge to find economically viable recycling techniques for the plastic composite. The composites from windmills are currently not high-quality recyclable. It is expected that larger quantities of composite materials will be released within a few years. The Flemish government encourages research into end-of-life life cycle options for hard-to-recyclable plastic flows. There is an Interreg project Decom Tools with the Haven van Ostend specifically for the offshore wind turbines. Madam Minister, do you have a view of the end of the life of certain Belgian offshore wind turbines and when they will be broken down and replaced? Is the federal government involved to any extent in the research or research projects on the recycling of components of offshore windmills? Have policy aspects of the ageing of a significant amount of wind energy instra structure in Europe already been addressed at NSEC meetings? Will they be discussed this year and the coming years?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u32	Mr President, first of all, I should like to apologise to Mrs Dierick for the second time in this sitting. It's really stupid, because the answer was ready, but something went wrong. In my defense, I can say that this has to do with the start-up of my cabinet. Since the answer is ready, we will send it to you, Mrs Dierick. I will not read the three pages of the figures of the answer. Today, eight wind farms are fully operational in the Belgian part of the North Sea, for a total power of 2.2 gigawatts. The estimated lifetime of a wind turbine intended for electricity production in the Belgian North Sea is approximately 25 years, based on the analysis of data provided in the concession applications, including data from the manufacturer of the turbines concerned. In accordance with Article 6 of the Electricity Act, domain concessions for the production of energy at sea shall be subject to a maximum duration of 30 years. This means that 30 years after the start of the construction of the entire park, the entire park must be dismantled. The concessionaire is responsible for decommissioning and therefore also bears the costs of demolition and recycling. The current domain concessions were initially granted for an operating period of 20 years under that Article, with some extensions being allowed since then. After the end of the operating period there will be a decommissioning phase, which is included in the maximum period of 30 years. An overview of the duration and expected termination of service per concession is available. The earliest end date is in 2034, the last in 2045. As domain concessions are coming to an end, no decision can yet be taken on the possible replacement of wind turbines. So far no offshore wind turbine has been dismantled in Belgium. The federal government has not yet participated in offshore wind energy recycling research projects. It should be noted that approximately 80-90% of the total wind farm mass can now be recycled. Most parts of a wind turbine such as the foundation, tower and parts of the gondola are subject to a standard recycling method. The nacelle blades and shell, often mostly composed of composites, require specific recycling procedures. These materials are therefore difficult to recycle today, but have a high calorific value and can be used for energy production. Wind turbine manufacturers improve the recycling of composite waste through the development of alternative technologies. Within the NSEC we are not specifically concerned with the end of life of the windmills. The ongoing Interreg project Decom Tools focuses on the end of life and the dismantling of wind farms at sea. The recycling of waste wind turbine materials is part of this. Belgium participates in the project through the port of Ostend and POM West Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u33	Mrs Dierick, I'll send you all the numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u34	Madam Minister, it is good that you have explained once again about the domain concessions, the 20-year period of operation versus up to 30 years. 2034 still seems quite far away, but I thought it was necessary to bring out the difficult recyclability of a number of parts here. The operator must indeed bear the costs and be responsible for the recycling. The Flemish powers and the Flemish government are, of course, also urged to pay due attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answer. Waste management must respect a certain hierarchy. The first question to be asked is the possible extension of the life of wind turbines (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u36	Madam Minister, the question of appointment has been raised here several times since your arrival. At the end of 2020, you replied to questions from Mr Wollants and myself that the Energy Administration was not involved in the procedure initiated with the previous government with full authority. There was a Selor procedure, which ultimately resulted in three candidates. After that, the government went into ongoing cases. Then came the news that on September 30, 2019 Mrs Marghem had interviewed the three candidates selected by Selor. The procedure was therefore not terminated. That was also my colleague's conclusion. You then told us that you had an incomplete file and that you had no impact on the interviews with the selected candidates. In the margins of the traditional career of appointment, we have now learned that a new procedure will be launched; I cannot interpret it any differently. A tabula rasa was mentioned in the press and a new Selor-exam for the CREG-direction, because the energy landscape would have changed dramatically by now. You referred in the press to the European regulatory framework for energy law and also to the specific Belgian national context on energy policy. I'm afraid of the legal basis. Will there be no complaints? Is the choice of a new procedure at 100 % okay? I read that the three finalists were personally informed of the decision. But I think it is necessary for you to give Parliament a little more explanation of the government's decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u37	Madam Secretary, the matter has already been opened. You pointed out at the time that you did not have a complete file, because you did not see the impact of the interviews that were conducted after the Selor procedure. That was still in your predecessor's archive. It took a number of months before it was transferred, so that you had a complete file to continue the procedure. Now that you have the full file, at least according to the press, you come to the conclusion that the Selor procedure would no longer be accurate for the implementation of the mandate. That is a bit bizarre, because I have always understood that you had the information about the Selor procedure itself. The information that was still missing was the interviews that were conducted. Now you decide, after you have received the information on the interviews, that the Selor procedure is no longer accurate, at least that is how I understand from the press. First of all, can you tell us a state of affairs and give us your version of the facts? What exactly was decided? Secondly, why do you only now come to the conclusion that the Selor procedure is no longer accurate? You have had this information for a long time; you did not have to wait for Mrs Marghem's file. Thirdly, what changes will you have made to the Selor procedure? What should now be applied that was not previously applied? Do you still intend to make that happen via Selor? That seems to me to be an important aspect. Fourthly, why did you have to have the report on the interviews in order to be able to judge the Selor procedure? Fifthly, do you believe that the termination of the procedure is sufficiently justified and that the Council of State will be able to pass any review?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, the general tone of the questions is a concern I share, namely to ensure the independence of the CREG as a regulator, so that the staff of the CREG and the market can rely on a strong regulator. For the record, I would also point out that, in these challenging times, the CREG can continue to take legal decisions. I must admit, however, that the situation is not ideal. So we need to work on it. My decision to stop the procedure is motivated by two reasons. Firstly, a long time has passed since the launch of the selection procedure in August 2018, and at that time the regulatory framework has changed considerably. Just think of the 2019 European Union's Clean Energy for all Europeans Winter Package, which has to be transposed or applied in national law and involves a radical change in the existing rules. It also covers the fourth electricity directive, the renewable energy directive, the energy efficiency directive, the electricity regulation, the risk preparedness regulation, the ACER regulation and the governance regulation. There is also the European Commission's Green Deal of December 2019. In this context, the CREG has the role of ensuring that low carbon energy is delivered to all users in a sustainable, safe and affordable way in an integrated energy system. The CREG also referred to this at the hearing on 29 April, which I re-heard yesterday. In Selor's proceedings, the candidates were therefore assessed on the basis of their competences in the light of the regulatory framework that existed two and a half years ago. As chairman of the CREG Management Committee, we obviously have to operate in accordance with the regulatory framework that is in force today and that has therefore been substantially changed. In the light of developments in European and national energy law, the selection tests conducted are no longer accurate for the current implementation of the mandate of the Chairman of the CREG Management Committee. It is therefore desirable to launch a new selection procedure involving new elements from the new regulatory framework, European and national. The knowledge and competence of the candidates will be assessed in the light of this. Secondly, in addition to the mandate of the chairman of the CREG Management Committee, the mandates of the other members of the Management Committee have now become vacant. The current members of the CREG Management Committee were appointed to KB on 30 July 2013. It was a six-year mandate, which entered into force on 1 September 2013, i.e. until 1 September 2019. In the meantime, there was already a vacancy for the president's mandate, because the previous president of the CREG became CEO of Sibelga. Initially, all four members of the Management Committee were also appointed at the same time, through the aforementioned KB. It is therefore better to organise a selection procedure at the same time for the implementation of both the vacant mandates of the Chairman and the vacant mandates of the other members of the Management Committee. I believe that the ministerial decision that I have issued is sound and reasoned and will pass any test by the Council of State. As for your other question, Mr Wollants, why I have only now come to the conclusion that the Selor examination is no longer accurate for the position, I can answer that I came to that conclusion after analysing the entire dossier. The CREG as an institution, like all candidates, can expect a minister to decide on a delicate dossier of an appointment only after she has taken note of the complete dossier: on the one hand, the documents that I have received from Selor and, on the other hand, the documents that Mrs Marghem has sent me. The changes that need to be made can be resumed to the analysis, inter alia, of the candidate's ability to assess the impact of the new legislative framework on the challenges of the energy transition and, consequently, the tasks and responsibilities of the CREG. First of all, it will be up to the selection committee to verify that. Mr Bombled asked me why I decided to restart the procedure when the Selor had already done the selection work. The selection procedure as set out in the Royal Decree of 13 July 2012 should be briefly recalled. First, the Selor organizes tests and an interview with a selection board. At the end of the tests, the tests and the comparison of the titles and merits of the candidates by the Selor, the candidates are registered either in the "suitable group" or in the "unsuitable group". Then, a supplementary interview is organised by the Minister with the candidates of the "capable group" in order to compare them. In view of the important new regulatory framework, the tests organised by the Selor could not take account of the new regulatory framework. That is why I did not audition the three candidates, since following the royal decree of July 13, 2012, which regulates the procedure for selecting the management of the CREG, the minister or ministers intervene only after the tests of the Selor in order to compare them. Finally, I come to the question of Mr. Ben Achour on the calendar. My services have already made contact with the Selor. There is still a lot of work in this file, including the drafting of profiles. CREG is a very important body. So I want to do things in order. My ambition is to move forward by trying to avoid recourse. It means without haste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u39	Madam Minister, you are confident that the regulation will pass the test by the Council of State should any attempt be made to do so. In summary, it is actually a bit the fault of my colleague's party, which has left the government, otherwise one of those three people might have become the director of the CREG. That seems to be the political summary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u40	Mr. Wollants, do you see it that way?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u41	Mr President, I have to say that the longer a debate on energy takes in Parliament and certainly in our committee, the more likely it is that it is my fault. Anyway, Madam Secretary, I continue to find it strange. You say that you must have the complete file in order to be able to judge, Madam Secretary, but the objections you raise today, in which I can follow you somewhere, could have been expressed without difficulty on the basis of the Selor procedure in itself. At that time the selection was made for a number of developments in the energy file. I believe that this could have been done more quickly, but things have not been done. I simply have to say that it was, quite coincidentally, in the context of another appointment round that the decision was taken. We will see what is coming out of it now, but I hope that it will come out to candidates who can guarantee the independence of the CREG and who can be strong figures there. That's the most important thing. I asked you if you thought the arrangement would stand for the Council of State, but it would only be news if you didn't think so, because it would have been over and out for the whole file. I look forward to the sequel. Finally, three years may be an eternity in energy policy, but that also means, of course, that the candidates already identified on the basis of a selection in 2012-2013 have grown in their position. We will see how the file evolves and which candidates will soon emerge. In any case, I have heard of a number of candidates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u42	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. First, changes to a legislative framework may occur in several places. This can even happen when, within an organization, a director is in place. It is as if at some point it was said to him: "The legislative framework has been changed, so you are asked to leave because you no longer meet the requirements that existed when you were engaged in this function." We could turn the problem back in that direction. I believe that restarting the procedure from scratch could create a legal vacuum for some time to come at the head of the CREG, which is a pity. Then I hope I'm wrong, but we're facing some legal uncertainty. Finally, there is a risk of possible recourse from the candidates who had been selected in the previous selection already made by the Selor. I repeat that it would have been more appropriate to rely on the three names that had been selected in the initial selection and to propose one of the three names to the government. Minister, I respect your choice, but we will nevertheless be very interested in the profile of the candidates who were selected in the next selection procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u43	Madam Minister, thank you. Without lingering, I will remind you that time is running out for this and other related cases. Colleagues explained why. I take note of your answer, which I can understand. Your explanations seem legitimate to me, but let us be careful not to waste too much time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u44	Mr President, Madam Minister, under your leadership and that of the Minister for Mobility, on 10 March Belgium, together with eight other Member States, sent a letter to the European Commission calling for "a European mobilisation to reduce the environmental impact of road transport" and for Europe to set a deadline for starting the gradual stoppage of the sale of personal diesel or petrol vehicles, with a view to making a more proactive transition to zero-emission vehicles. The adoption of a clear timetable would a fortiori drive all manufacturers out of alternative solutions, which should a priori lower the price of electric cars that are gaining more and more ground, with hybrid cars, in the European market for sales of new vehicles. Madam Minister, could you clarify the content of this letter to the Commission and, possibly, the content of your discussions with the co-signatory states on this matter? According to Greenpeace, studies show that the sale of "fossil" cars should be phased out by 2028. For their part, States such as the United Kingdom, Denmark, Iceland, Ireland, Slovenia and Sweden have already committed themselves to putting an end to sales of new passenger thermally driven vehicles by 2030. California and Japan, for their part, would have a ban by 2035. What do you think would be the ideal deadline? Could it be that Belgium intends to go faster than the European Union on this matter? Moreover, before speaking of a deadline, it seems clear to me that a substantial development of the infrastructure needed for electric vehicles, including charging stations, should be implemented on a large scale and without delay. Could you take stock of the development of these infrastructures, which must be affordable for individuals? Finally, could you tell us about your vision of the potential use of hydrogen in both light and heavy transport?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u45	Madam Minister, there is no doubt that there is a trend from vehicles with an internal combustion engine to vehicles with an electric drive. Of course, we notice this in the billions of euros of research and development that car manufacturers spend on making that change. You have stated that you, together with the government, have asked the European Commission to set a deadline for the sale of new vehicles powered by an internal combustion engine. In this way, you want to push the development of technologies for electric vehicles. Among other things, you refer to the manufacturer Volvo, who says that by 2030 only electric cars will be built, which would result in 300 new jobs for us in Ghent. Madam Minister, I would particularly like to know what deadline you have set. What do you think is realistic? What are you sitting on to determine exactly this date? My previous speeches have already shown that I am concerned about the democratization of electric vehicles and their affordability to ordinary people or women in the streets. Do you think that if this deadline is maintained, the democratization of electric vehicles will be guaranteed? What influence does the cessation of production of vehicles with an internal combustion engine have on the second-hand market, especially for private individuals? Madam Secretary, you always say that energy transmission is the employer of the future. But of course we must look at everything in its entirety. You say there will be 300 new jobs in Ghent by 2030. But how do they relate to the jobs at Audi Brussels, for example? How are they in relation to the job losses caused by the disappearance of the pumping installations, which will in any case come about? How are these in relation to the job losses in the post-sales service in the numerous garages, due to the declining need for vehicle maintenance, as we all know that electric cars will have a much lower service requirement with the concessionaires? I'm worried about that anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u46	Madam Minister, the two colleagues have already outlined the cause of the question and have already raised points of interest. On the one hand there is ambition, on the other hand there are concerns about technology and the fact that everyone has to be able to participate. Madam Minister, have you received any response to your appeal to the European Commission? Have you also communicated our position to the Länder? Technologically speaking, to what extent is our Belgian high-voltage grid ready for an increasing number of charging stations? Or do you think investments or adjustments are needed? To what extent will the share of electric cars and charging stations contribute to grid stability? The government agreement states that by 2026 all new commercial vehicles must be greenhouse gas-free. Have any steps been taken in that evolution? What impact does the transition from fuel cars to electric cars have on the labour market?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my reply with a good framework for the issue. The transport sector is the worry child of climate class in Belgium. It is the only sector in our country where emissions have continued to rise in recent decades. This issue, combined with the problematic impact of internal combustion engines on local air quality, therefore requires a decisive policy. At the informal Energy Council on 14 December, I asked the European Commission to consider a date for phasing out the sale of internal combustion engine cars under the Fit for 55 package. This position was agreed with the Regions within the appropriate coordination bodies, in this case the Directorate-General for Coordination and European Affairs (DGE). In the wake of this, Denmark initiated this non-paper, which calls on the European Commission to draw up a policy proposal. Belgium's connection to that non-paper was also coordinated with the Regions, within the Coordination Committee for International Environmental Policy. The non-paper does not set a specific date, as it will have to be determined by the European Commission, including on the basis of a legislative initiative and the required impact assessment. However, the letter clearly states that the final phase-out date must be in line with the 2050 climate neutrality target. In addition to the call for a phase-out date, the unpublished document clearly highlights the need to invest in zero-emission mobility infrastructure. In addition to the call for a European initiative in this area, I would like to point out that, within the Belgian relay plan, both the federal government and the regions have earmarked funds for the further development of the necessary infrastructure. I note that both in Volvo Ghent and in Audi Brussels the transition to e-vehicles has already been made and that we as a country are building a lead in terms of technical skills and know-how. In the interests of the competitiveness of our economy and job creation, it is therefore essential that the policy creates and also seizes those opportunities. This is also what the government agreement focuses on: the gradual elimination in consultation with the Regions of the sale of non-zero-emission cars. There needs to be sufficient clarity on the affordability of the different models, as well as consideration of the impact on the whole life cycle and public finances, the necessary infrastructure and the exchange of data, including in the context of network stabilisation. In line with European dynamism, the federal government agreement already provides for an initiative in this area. Nevertheless, I look forward to the European Commission's response to our call. With regard to the emission reduction of commercial vehicles by 2026, I would like to refer you to my competent colleague, Minister Van Peteghem. There was also a question from colleague Marghem, who was not asked, but it was about the impact of increasing electrification on the fleet. The increasing electrification of our fleet not only means an additional load on the network, but can also contribute to its stabilisation, as highlighted by Elia in its vision paper e-Mobility of November 2020. I would also like to say that, apart from the upcoming European initiatives in this area, the Belgian relaunch plan also takes account of the further development of the necessary infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u48	Madam Secretary, you are diligent. Not only do you summarise the questions that were not asked, but you also answer questions that are not even at issue. That's good. The replies can therefore be brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u49	Minister, I welcome your sense of anticipation. This is an issue that I think is important. Setting a deadline to take the step seems essential to me. Another key issue will be to ensure that prices are affordable so as not to leave anyone at the edge of the road. The transition will also have to be social, otherwise it will not be done properly. Let us pay attention to the prices charged!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u50	So, Madam Minister, I understand that you say that no deadline has yet been set and that you are awaiting an initiative from the European Commission on this matter. In any case, the timetable will have to go hand in hand with technological developments. The car manufacturers will be able to follow either way, but the government must also be sufficiently ready. There must therefore be sufficient infrastructure to make that change. I'm still a little worried about that. I am also concerned that you say that cars will have to stabilise the electricity grid further. We can't count on that. Nor should that be an ambition in itself. Every communication also has an influence. If you say that an end date will be needed, even if it is not yet there, it will of course affect how people handle their vehicles. We have also seen this with the discouragement of diesel cars in which suddenly those cars on the second hand market are no longer worth anything. We must therefore be particularly careful in communication. The price of these electric vehicles must also be democratized for everyone in the population. You can already work out a plan for the jobs that will be lost due to that shift to more and more electric vehicles. We must not forget that. You say that energy transition is the employer of the future, but that will also lead to the removal of jobs in a number of other areas. I hope you don't forget that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u51	Finally, there is Mr Verduyckt from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, although I do not know what the latter is about.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u52	Mr President, that means that in future I will be asking many forward-looking questions, because we are thinking ahead. What we're discussing right now is one of those things. Madam Secretary, I share your analysis when you say that mobility is a child of concern. Together with you, I note that the car builders are not sitting still, which is a good thing. That is why I am less concerned. A lot of questions have been asked today and you have answered more generally. In some areas, it may be even more difficult today to respond in a more concrete way, which I can understand, because we are only at the beginning of the process, the deadline of which has yet to be fixed. I therefore suspect that we will often come back to this issue, as many questions remain open, both in terms of technology and the social consequences of this transposition. This is absolutely necessary, but we certainly need to look at the people for whom it may be a little more difficult to take steps in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u53	Mr President, Mr Bombled, thank you for your question on the state of play of the task force on the nuclear exit. Preparatory meetings were held between my cabinet and those of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Economy and Labour. We have identified the most important points of attention as well as the initiatives we could take in our respective areas of expertise. We want to work on the basis of a document with our terms of reference. The main human responsibility remains the nuclear operator who will have to fulfil his obligations and commitments to his staff. The Regions also have important powers in this regard. The task force will be able to take initiatives only in its own areas of competence and will be able to play a role in coordination with the nuclear operator on the one hand and regional initiatives such as delivery at Walloon level. We will take initiatives to reorient staff affected by the closure of nuclear power plants to vacant posts in nuclear institutions under our supervision. We will also examine the extent to which nuclear organizations under our supervision, such as SCK-CEN, could collaborate in training programmes in the areas of decommissioning and decontamination. I would remind you that this is also a project within the framework of our recovery plan. The working group will also work on the regulatory framework for nuclear exit. As a first step, the three ministers concerned will visit the Council of Ministers in the coming weeks, normally even before the Easter holidays, with a preliminary draft law aimed at improving the process of accepting radioactive waste, the role of ONDRAF and the role of AFCN in this context. To ensure security of supply, a capacity compensation mechanism (CRM) was developed a few weeks ago. As foreseen in the Government Agreement, a full report on the projects selected at the end of the auction will be submitted at the end of November 2021. In particular, this report will analyse security of supply and the impact on electricity prices. If this analysis reveals an unexpected security of supply problem, the government will take appropriate measures such as adjusting the legal timetable for the release of nuclear power, for a capacity of up to 2 Gigawatts. I have indeed had contacts with representatives of ENGIE since the publication of its latest annual results. The change in life-span assumptions and changes in commodity price scenarios led ENGIE to record a depreciation of EUR 2.9 billion of nuclear assets, a non-recurring element in the 2020 profit and loss account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for this comprehensive response.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u55	Madam Minister, a few weeks ago I asked a similar question in connection with a number of ongoing judicial proceedings in Germany. I was frowned upon when I saw German Federal Minister for the Environment, Svenja Schulze, presenting a document on nuclear elimination on the anniversary of the Fukushima nuclear disaster. These include the closure of plants for fuel elements and uranium. It says very clearly that Germany's nuclear phasing-out cannot be compatible with the production of fuel and fuel elements for nuclear installations abroad. Madam Secretary, that means that we are involved. What are the consequences of German policy on the supply of our nuclear power stations, which in any case will last until 2025? Are you expecting trouble? In the meantime, have you had discussions with the German colleagues in connection with these announcements?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u56	Mr Van Lommel, the German Government has not yet taken the decision to close nuclear fuel production plants. The position to close these factories is merely the personal position of Minister Svenja Schulze and not the official position of the German Government. For this reason, I did not think it necessary to contact my German colleague. As I mentioned in previous answers, it is the responsibility of the nuclear operator to conclude contracts for the manufacture of the nuclear fuel elements and to make strategic choices for potential suppliers within an international and competitive market.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u57	Madam Secretary, I understand that this is a possible decision. In Germany, nothing has yet been definitively decided and this is a personal view of the German Minister. In any case, I think that we should continue to follow this up with caution in the event that the Minister's personal position may be transformed into a policy in Germany. It is indeed up to the operator to conclude the necessary contracts for the supply of our nuclear power stations. If that becomes problematic, or if there are problems, then I think you, as a minister, will be prepared to give the necessary push to ensure that security of supply will not be compromised until 2025, as long as our nuclear power stations continue to run anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic419x.u58	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55015734C by Mr Cogolati, 55015739C by Mrs Dierick, 55015753C by Mr Senesael and 55015756C by Mrs Leroy are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Verduyckt's 55015737C was postponed.
