ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 February 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 February 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u3	On 29 January 2021, I invited the Council of State to deliver an opinion on amendments to the bill on various provisions in the field of justice, No. 1696/1. On 29 January 2021, I asked the Council of State to provide an opinion on amendments to the draft law laying down various provisions on justice, No. 1696/1. I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on Justice (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Justice (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). Discussion of the bill will continue in plenary, after consideration of the amendments in committee. The draft law will be discussed in plenary today, after discussion of the amendments in committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u4	Prime Minister, last week you did not find time to respond to the questions of the democratic opposition on public freedoms, but since then you have found time to write to us, and I thank you for that. You are very soon announcing a bill on the pandemic, and we can only welcome it, even if – as I said and I maintain – it is not only a law of regularization that we need, but also a law of monitoring of public freedoms. Parliament must be respected in its prerogatives at every stage of this crisis. I will discuss with you a very precise angle, that of the famous ministerial decrees. On the one hand, you write that "the legal basis of ministerial decrees has been accepted by the Council of State". In fact, this is not really the case: none of the 30 ministerial decrees have been submitted to the legislative section of the Council of State, and that is the whole problem. Nor have they been submitted to the Data Protection Authority, let alone to this honourable assembly. In fact, your argument is that every time the orders have been attacked a posteriori before the dispute in the Council of State or before the courts and tribunals, the government has never been wronged so far. It's still quite a special way of seeing things... If I understand you correctly, it's like, "Until now, I've been given no wrong, so that means I'm right." If I understand you correctly, we can violate the Constitution, as long as a judge does not arrest us. If I understand you correctly, this government feels exempt from the principle of legality until a judge tells him that he must respect it. This seems to me, Prime Minister, a fairly complete reversal of the principle of legality required by our rule of law. On the other hand, you are telling us that you will now submit these famous orders to the House. Let me ask you for a clarification: is this a transmission for information? If that is the case, it is very good, because it promotes transparency. However, the Members we are do not just want to be informed a few hours or days before the press. What we want is to deliberate and participate in these decisions, as the Constitution requires. And if you are asking us to participate in this process of designing ministerial orders, why not simply proceed through a bill? In one sentence, why are you content with being more transparent, when you could observe the Constitution and the laws of the Belgian people?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u5	Madam President, Prime Minister, it has been months since more and more voices were raised to call for further management of the pandemic with more predictable, better explained, more legally sound and publicly deliberate measures. "Where are the parliamentarians?" is the question that resonates everywhere. Criticism is not easy to hear and, yet, is it not well founded? It's not that the House was inactive. Contrary to what can be said, we see every day the intense and sometimes fierce parliamentary control that is being carried out on the subject. But the criticism here is mainly about the absence of a prior debate, about decision-making behind closed doors, a communication that is sometimes hesitant. We are convinced, however, that efficiency and democracy can and must go hand in hand, that the public debate on this subject will enable citizens to better perceive the reasons and logic of the measures in order to better appropriate them rather than to suffer them. The ecologists did not wait for the subject to take up the news. Since October, we have asked the relevant ministers about the constitutionality of the measures, respect for the rule of law and the place of democratic debate. Three weeks ago, I was here asking your colleague, the Minister of the Interior, about the pandemic law. It was time to change course to restore confidence. On behalf of your Government, yesterday you gave a very important signal in this direction. You clearly reaffirm the commitment to introduce a pandemic bill, but you go further by involving Parliament in several stages of the process rather than just at the end of the journey. It's original and it was a request from environmental parliamentarians. We are pleased that your Government has joined. Prime Minister, it is important for this collaborative process to deliver on its promises or be just an announcement effect. To that end, my questions are as follows. When will the first version of the text be available to open the discussion? What guarantees can you give us that the House will have real room for manoeuvre on the text at each stage? Finally, it is essential for the future that diverse and pluralistic expertise be taken into account to guide decision-making, that the contribution of the humanities and legal sciences be not ignored. What are your commitments in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u6	Madam President, Prime Minister, many have said this: it has been months since a series of civil society actors have been questioning how the government is taking measures that restrict our freedoms to deal with the health crisis. It is true that, at the beginning of the pandemic, the emergency justified prompt action by ministerial decrees or by royal decrees of special powers. But we are more than a year later. It's no longer acceptable. We have expressed this on several occasions in the last few months here in the House. On Wednesday, representatives of nearly 20,000 lawyers in Belgium also took a position in this regard. In the face of all these calls to respect the rule of law, you sent a letter to the President of the House. You are proposing a debate on the draft bill, I quote: "to take into account the sensitivities and suggestions of the House from the stage of the preliminary draft." Your hand in Parliament is positive, Prime Minister. Yesterday, in the Conference of Presidents, I insisted that civil society be involved in our debates through hearings. Let's get out of political inter-self and bet on collective intelligence! This will only make it possible to strengthen the legitimacy of this future pandemic law. What says more legitimacy, which says more legality in health measures, also says an increase in their effectiveness. In substance, I am convinced that public health and the rule of law are not contradictory. On the contrary, they reinforce each other. Prime Minister, are you in favour of involving civil society in these debates and therefore responding positively to my request?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u7	Madam President, Prime Minister, in our democracy, the rule must be freedom. These freedoms are also enshrined in the Constitution. This is about freedom of expression, freedom of education, freedom of assembly, freedom of worship, freedom to move, freedom to undertake. Today, according to the latest published figures, half of all deaths have unfortunately occurred in nursing homes, and 80% of them affect people over the age of 75. All these people will soon be vaccinated and immunized. In doing so, what will be the real risk of overloading our healthcare structures to justify in a proportionate manner the extension of the restriction of our freedoms? You mentioned a law. Could you give us more information about this? In any case, there can be no question for the MR of a general pandemic law that could be activated at any time during future events unknown to date. Nor can there be any question of requisitioning or making available. Finally, there can be no question of freezing future restrictions in response to still unknown situations. Minister, can you explain more about how the government intends to respond to the harsh criticisms of civil society and our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u8	Mrs Gilson, thank you. I now give the floor to Mr. Koens. [[Laughs in the room]] Or rather, Mr. Koen Geens! Mr Geens, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u9	I won't say "Mr. President"! Prime Minister, as far as possible with a member of the male sex, yesterday I was so happy that the child jumped into my lap. I received a letter from you stating that you would take up the paternity of the pandemic law announced by the Home Secretary at the beginning of January. I was very pleased because our country has no suspension of fundamental rights, as Mr De Smet just said. Article 187 of the Constitution prohibits the state of emergency as a general law in our country. You will recall that we have long managed to make laws which met the specific security requirements, without violating rights and freedoms, throughout the terrorist crisis. Of course, I'm not denying fatherhood. It was obvious that when the Wilmès government was formed we were looking for a coat rack that could help us to manage this difficult situation. To this end, we used the Civil Security Act of 2007, which, thank God, is, until today, designated by most common sense lawyers as the basis for the ministerial decision that is being taken. I am one of the lawyers of common sense, you are well aware of that, at least I hope. However, Prime Minister, no one could have known that this crisis would take so long. We thought all the time that it was almost done and that it could be waited a while to put a new legal basis in a final form. The law of 2007 was of course written for short-term crises. Lawyers don't stop pointing that out to us. The lawyers also ended up beside Annelies Verlinden. That is why I am very grateful to them. I didn't have any influence over that. I have three questions for you. First of all, how are you going to use that law in the inter-federal consultation? After all, we as a Parliament will be known shortly before and after the ministerial decision, without having to give our aval. Secondly, what about the other law, the Minister of Health? Can we get that on our plate, too? I heard Mrs Gilson implicitly ask questions about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u10	Mr. Nodes, may I ask you to conclude?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u11	Thirdly, I have read the small letters of your letter correctly. You write that you will not invoke urgency. That scares me a little bit. I ask no urgency, I (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u12	Madam President, I appreciate your tolerance for the speaking time of the previous speaker. It was also his maiden speech. There must be some room for this. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for being here. Last week, you left the premises at the time we wanted to interview you on the matter. At that time, you sent a premier on duty, while we wanted to question you about your statements in the press. Today we can do that. Prime Minister, in October I felt very lonely when I cut down on the subject here, because I seemed to be shouting a bit in the desert. I also stumbled upon a great disinterest in your government. In the meantime, a lot of people have joined the thesis that we have developed. In the meantime, I even think that lawyers with common sense have expressed a different opinion. You always agree with the Council of State, but the same Council of State has said that it has never been asked by you in advance to judge your ministerial decisions. That is, of course, the advantage of a ministerial decision. In that sense, you have gone beyond the government with powers of attorney, which had to consult the Council of State. The appeal court has said that the law referred to can no longer serve as a basis. The Data Protection Authority also complains that it was never involved in the process. So you ignore all checks-and-balances in the implementation of your policy. Last week, as a blow to the flames, next to the academics we've already had, there is the point of view of the united counters. I'm very glad you couldn't resist that kind of pressure. You have gone down your knees after the winding course in relation to the question of whether there will be a pandemic law, yes or no, and when she will be there. Early January, maybe spring. The president of Open Vld talked about the summer. You said in the seventh day, she's not needed right now. Mr Van Quickenborne felt the same way. Mrs. Verlinden may have thought they were necessary now. I hope that at last there will be some clarity in the line your government is drawing in this. You sent a letter to Parliament yesterday. I would like to ask you a few questions about that. I am very pleased that you are announcing a serious undermining of the measures, but can you explain again why the pandemic law is needed, if you claim, at the same time, that you have done a good legal work so far. What's the extra value of that? What haven't you been able to do to make that pandemic law necessary? When's the pandemic bill coming? In that respect, we are still hungry. What stage is it currently at? Can you guarantee us that we will not have to wait again until spring or summer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me first explain what legal basis we have been using for our ministerial decisions since March 2020. As has been said on several occasions, we use a double legal basis, namely the law on the police office of 5 August 1992 and the civil security law of 15 May 2007. These are two legal bases, approved in Parliament and used by the executive. That's a legal base that's stable and there's one. He's not in question. The Council of State has repeatedly stated and accepted that this double legal basis is sufficient to enable ministerial decisions to be taken in these exceptional circumstances. Moreover, each time the legal basis had been questioned at first instance, it was confirmed by appeal that that legal basis is sufficient to enable it to work. In addition, whenever the government has made a ministerial order, it has done so in accordance with higher standards, ensuring the effectiveness and proportionality of the measures in relation to the objectives to be achieved. We have always been clear: we are taking action through this double provision and a ministerial decree, but by limiting ourselves to what is necessary. Moreover, whenever we adopt a ministerial decree, it is accompanied by detailed reasons and scientific advice. It's important to remind him. Listening to some of you, one might think that in the past few months, the government has been based on an artistic blur from a legal point of view, which would have been challenged everywhere. But that is not the case. Each time, the Council of State has confirmed the method used, the stability of which has also been recognized by the courts and tribunals. In addition to the legal reality, Mr De Roover, there is indeed a political reality. There is also a parliamentary and social debate on the very far-reaching measures that have been in force for a very long time. It is clear that these are exceptional times. This is an exceptional crisis in which we are taking measures which are absolutely exceptional and which we have had to take for a very long time. The government is not deaf to the question that is also being asked in Parliament in order to have more debate on it. That question is put, both by the opposition and by the majority. That is why I sent a letter to the President of the Chamber last Tuesday, in which the government extends its hand to Parliament on two dimensions. The first dimension is the draft pandemic law that Minister of the Interior Verlinden is working on. In fact, she also replied to the interplays on the pandemic law in Parliament last week. The government intends to submit the draft to Parliament very early in the process of completing the first version. It is a good thing to be able to incorporate the knowledge of this very wide debate in Parliament as early as possible when completing the draft. That is to say, before we send the draft to the Council of State, we will have a debate on it in Parliament. Mrs Fonck, will it be possible during this debate to invite civil society, for example? This is a matter for Parliament's organisation, which must decide whether it is appropriate and whether it wants to do so. It is clear that we want to have a fundamental debate here before we finish. We do not just want to let this go through, but we want to have a debate in which majority and opposition cooperate constructively. This is pretty unseen. It is an unseen method of involving Parliament so early in something that could be said to be reserved for Parliament. It's an unseen method, but I think she's justified. It is justified because it is a pandemic law that seeks to strike a balance between health and safety, between a collective approach and individual responsibility. We must be able to answer these fundamental questions together with Parliament. I have indicated a second element in my letter: as is the case now, all government ministers are prepared to discuss with parliamentarians the Ministerial Order and its content. Here too, it is up to Parliament to organize itself. Our ministers spend a lot of time discussing the elements of ministerial orders. Here too, the government is reaching out to Parliament to organize this and perhaps to do so more systematically than today. It can be said that what we are doing here is quite exceptional. I hope that we will all live up to a debate in which we can unite not only our strengths but also our convictions. In relation to basic freedoms, this is probably not the classic divide between majority and opposition; it is much wider than that and we must be able to debate it by overcoming it. I answer a few specific questions. As far as timing is concerned, we should be able to come to Parliament by the end of February, the beginning of March. Is the intention to move forward so that this law can still be used during this pandemic? If we were to learn the exceptional news that the pandemic will end in a month...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u14	Prime Minister, you can continue, but your remarks will not appear on the record. May I draw your attention to the observance of speaking times. It is always unpleasant to interrupt someone when he speaks. If you could put a little goodwill and respect the speaking times, it would be of great help to the whole assembly, especially since the agenda is very busy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u15	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. You're amazing! I admire your political experience, since you manage to sell us as the "eighth wonder of the world" which normally should be the norm, that is, that the majority and the opposition should work on standards aimed at restricting fundamental freedoms when it is fundamental. So, yes, it's extraordinary, but that should be the norm! Normality is what we've been living for several months. That being said, if there is a hand outstretched, we will obviously seize it – and I thank you for tendering it. He wouldn't be responsible for not doing it. We will therefore see what this pandemic law will include. I continue to say that what would really work is that every time a Concerted Committee takes restrictive measures, a law is immediately debated in Parliament. I'm a little afraid that with a single pandemic law that gives a form of empowerment, we don't have that kind of monitoring that's very important. Let us recall that it does not only take a law to get on the legal tracks, but because there will then be a public debate accessible to the press and the public, and because we parliamentarians can improve these standards not only by rejecting or approving them but by amending them and relaying the prerogatives and wills of public opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u16	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Is the proposed system perfect? I don't think so. Does it satisfy me fully, especially in the short term? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But, yes, today we can rejoice at a real democratic breakthrough in which Parliament takes its place. This progress has been achieved thanks to the tenacity of all those who have made this debate live in society, and we must thank them for that. I have the weakness to think that it is perhaps a little too much thanks to the parliamentarians who have invested in this matter. The challenge now, of course, is to put in the text all the necessary beacons in order to guarantee the best protection of rights and freedoms, even and especially in times of crisis. It'll take time. This time must be devoted to ensuring that the situation that has prevailed for months does not recur. In the meantime, however, there is also a need for more debate and clear communication on the current measures. It is about the citizens' support and the confidence that we inspire in such challenging moments. Prime Minister, this is an opportunity to change the story and make this project a real success in terms of democracy, participation and transparency. A new chapter opens and I am glad that we are writing it together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u17	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Paradoxically, you are proposing a method of working in Parliament, before you fall behind it in order to avoid responding to my proposal to open the debate to civil society. In any case, I take note of your very fresh answer – that is the least one can say. I want to speak to the parties of the majority and the opposition. I regularly hear several of you pleading for a more participatory democracy. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that in this debate you will mobilize all your energy to convince the Prime Minister and the government. Prime Minister, in my view, this is a great opportunity to undertake collective work in the service of fundamental freedoms, to bring citizens closer to policies and to strengthen membership. This is a major struggle of our democracy, including in the health crisis we are going through.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u18	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. We are living in a terrible time in which our constitutional freedoms are restricted. We've been living under a chain of lead for almost a year because of the covid. For the MR, any limitation on our constitutional freedoms must be fully justified and proportionate. It is pleased that you are calling for a parliamentary debate. However, let us be careful! Some dictatorships have been established by parliamentary majorities. In other words, parliamentary debate is not enough; we must remain attentive to the very substance of the measures. For the MR Group, there is no question of a law that would impose definitive restrictions on our freedoms on a permanent basis, involving future and uncertain events. As soon as possible, we must return to our freedoms and break with their hindrances. It is about our democracy and the well-being of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u19	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your detailed answer. I have two comments to make. The first is an old French saying, il n'y a que le provisoire qui vuure. That is something I am somewhat afraid of, given the procedure of parliamentary renewal that is being presented to us. For the record, I am in favour of political renewal, but we have to see that we can take a few turns somewhere to get this pandemic law into effect quickly enough. I fear that otherwise she will not have the desired psychological effect, which is quite important. You have underlined the need for a parliamentary debate. Of course, nothing is more fun for a Member of Parliament than a good debate, and I am delighted about that, with cheers in my heart. The debate on the law itself is important, but I am confident that this will be shorter if we can debate the measures afterwards, after they have been issued and published, of course. That will, for example, strengthen the basis for a curfew. I thank you and wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u20	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the answer. However, the Civil Security Act on which you base yourself has been created for acute and very temporary emergencies such as fires, explosions or the release of radioactive substances. This law is not a sufficient basis for imposing long-term restrictions on freedom. I'm not saying that. That's a ruling from the appeal court of October 28th, a long time ago. If you now say that we are involved very early in the process, you will see how relative words and concepts can be. It is certainly a good thing that the debate is going to take place. You have now set a date and we will stick to it. We are still afraid that the practice that is now being used to eliminate Parliament by ministerial decision will in future be transformed into a ban on Parliament by law. That is not the intention, of course. In order to avoid this and to broaden the debate, over majority and opposition, we will put forward a proposal in which we count on all colleagues in the legislative power to maintain Parliament's prerogatives fully, including in crisis situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u21	Madam President, Prime Minister, EUR 10 billion is the loss or reduced turnover of the catering industry in 2020 compared to 2019. However, EUR 10 billion is also almost double the money that we get from Europe for the relay fund, which is mainly for public investment and which certainly also calls for attention to social cohesion. Let it be just the catering industry that is the driving force behind social cohesion. Will the catering industry be able to taste the relic fund? No. Who's gonna be able to taste it? That is, for example, the renovation of the Justice Palace. Meanwhile, a lot of employees have been sitting in front of their computer for almost a year, from one Zoompeting to another Zoompeting surfing. They absolutely need to go outside, work out with their colleagues, drink a good glass with their colleagues and even with their boss. It is also clear that the hospitality sector is the driving force behind social cohesion. We read everywhere that the scarce resources available must be used absolutely for healthy businesses, and certainly not for sick companies. An economy needs strong companies and companies ready for the future. What stands in the scaffolding for the catering industry, the travel sector, the event sector and for all the heavily affected sectors will not be achieved. After all, there's almost nothing in the scaffolding for them. Prime Minister, as long as these plans are not in place, you will help to create even more sick companies. Here in the past, I have already called for our traders, our businesses, our SMEs and our managers. I want to do that again here today for the sectors that are badly affected, but also for their suppliers. Give them a new perspective. After all, they need it. You state that the vaccination strategy is on the verge of being under control. That must certainly make things possible. Prime Minister, my questions are as follows. Where's the perspective? Where is the roadmap for all affected sectors? Where is the exit scenario to get out of the current crisis and rebuild our future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u22	Madam President, Prime Minister, you know as well as I do that the Belgians have the morale. This is the paradox: as the situation stabilizes and slightly improves on the front against the covid, there is always the length of the crisis, the social contacts counted on the fingers of a hand, the tenderness and hugs placed in the closet, the parents that can no longer be kissed, the absence of shows that no longer allow us to escape. Yes, it's hard for the Belgians! Moreover, not everyone is experiencing the crisis in the same way. I am thinking of these unemployed corona workers, the unemployed workers who, for the past year, have no prospect, the artists who are almost at a standstill and the self-employed who have invested the work of a life in their company and who have nothing left to give. These workers are living the crisis in their flesh and, unfortunately, in their wallets. Prime Minister, the re-opening under conditions of hairdressers is very good news because people feel that they are at a standstill! Some sectors are out of breath. Now, when I hear the speech of some experts today, I see a glimmer on the horizon and I feel a shimmer of hope. They tell us that maybe we could review our strategy when the numbers seem to have reached a plateau because the vaccination is moving forward. These experts tell us that there are very strict protocols which make it possible to envisage the reopening of certain sectors. Of course, we must continue to fight the epidemic and contain it. For caregivers, for our hospitals and for our children to continue to go to school, it's essential! It is also important to give perspectives to closed sectors in terms of figures and expert opinion. Prime Minister, what methodology will be used? Will the method of work used for contact occupations be applied to other closed sectors? What will be the government's methodology for responding to closed sectors? Do the thresholds that we set ourselves several weeks ago still make sense to consider (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u23	I congratulate you on your Mayden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u24	Madam President, I will first describe the current epidemiological situation. Over the past few days, the number of positive cases has decreased slightly, by 8%. That's more like good news. The positivity ratio, the number of positive cases per decreased test, is now 5.2 %. It's going in the right direction. Between the beginning of December and now, i.e. after about two and a half months, the situation is relatively stable, thanks to relatively stable measures. Unlike some other countries, we have not had a jojo of measures here, with relaxations, entanglements and then relaxations. The measures here are a stable framework that has helped us to keep the situation stable. That stable framework has been successful because people have respected that framework. That remains the basic element in the end. Measures are only good if people succeed in following those measures. In the end, that remains the basis. I understand that a lot of people look ahead and especially look at the summer and want to know what will be possible within a few months. However, I will try to define a framework for decisions. We need to determine where the virus is transmitted. We know that the latter is preferably transmitted inside, in poorly ventilated places where many people speak or cry. These are the favourable places for the transmission of the virus. On the other hand, on the outside, if some distancing is respected, the situation is much safer. The first case should therefore be avoided and the second case should be favoured when easing measures. It is clear that the method to be used will include steps, as was the case for non-medical contact occupations. On Saturday, hair salons will be able to reopen and, two weeks later, other trades will be able to resume their activities. In the past, the number of hospitalizations has often been taken into account as an indicator. It is clear that we must now take into account the epidemiological situation, but also the vaccination which represents a certain progress and which is clearly a moderating element in terms of the spread of the virus. That is what we asked for. By "we," I mean the federal government, but also the prime ministers who participated in the Conciliation Committee. We have asked that by 26 February the experts provide a framework that takes into account the uncertainties that exist. We are faced with two major uncertainties, that of contamination and, unfortunately, that of the supply of vaccines. The federal government is holding a debate tomorrow, following an introduction by the governor of the National Bank, on the existing measures: what existing measures should be renewed and what additional measures should be taken to help the hibernation companies restart their activity? Mrs Houtmeyers, you referred to the European Investment Pact. You will understand, of course, that this European Investment Pact is about investment. When we talk about a reopening plan, it is about support we give to companies to help them restart their activities. You understand that this is of a totally different nature, and that the comparison between one and the other is actually not correct. I understand the question of perspective. We would all very much like to have perspective. I've said it several times, and I'm sticking with it. I would like to give perspective, but if we do that today, with the uncertainties that we now have, we give false hope. And giving false hope, I think, is the last thing we should give people. What I can confirm, however, is that we will not allow the measures in force to apply too much a day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u25	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I am pleased to hear that on 26 February perhaps a little more concrete perspective will be offered. I'm talking to a lot of entrepreneurs. With them really lives the lack of perspective, except for the prospect of bankruptcy and social misery. The renovation of the Justice Palace will soon be financed with money from the relay plan. You say that one thing has nothing to do with another, which may well be true, but it is cynical that a lot of companies will have to put the books in a beautiful palace of justice that will cost a lot of money. People are having a difficult and very difficult time, as you yourself have just indicated. They have been following a lot of measures for a long time, but it is becoming increasingly difficult. Therefore they need a good chat and a nice glass. Soon spring will arrive, offering the opportunity to open terraces. You indicate that the virus is spreading less rapidly in the open. That is why I hope that companies will soon be able to find a way to open their terraces, albeit coronaproof. That is why I ask once again for a perspective for our catering industry, the event sector and all other sectors that are so difficult (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u26	Mrs Houtmeyers, your speaking time has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u27	Prime Minister, like you, we want to be careful. Like you, we want to push back a third wave. Like you, we know that too fast re-openings of sectors that favour contacts can once again make the numbers blaze. But we also know that today, after almost a year of closure, a whole range of sectors are ready with security protocols to allow gradual, cautious and framed reopenings. We must look at the demands and proposals of these sectors, remain vigilant; but, I repeat, we must offer realistic prospects. It's important. This is vital for the sector and for society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u28	Madam President, Prime Minister, what is this about the relationship between politics and money in Belgium? What's the problem? This must be considered in society. What is the problem with the relationship between money, money, money and the political world? We have been working on political renewal here for years, but the facts are building up. Prime Minister, your party is now at the centre of the El Kaouakibi affair. Money and subsidies in Antwerp come directly into the account of its companies. Now I hear that Open Vld gave her 50,000 euros for her campaign, for an independent candidate. Olé, who gives more in politics? Members of the Flemish Interest, how much did your party give for your independent candidate Dries Van Langenhove? 34,000 euros! It's a bid. Give me some more. Is that politics? Is that about politics? What kind of signal does that give you? Prime Minister, that is not the only thing with regard to your party. How much did Karel Pinxten put in the pocket? 570,000 euros. Kling, blade. At the N-VA, Mr Kucam received 522,000 euros. Kling, blade, in the pocket. What kind of signal do you send to the people? Everyone's dropping out right now. For all those who would say that this is a Community problem, I assure you: the magoyle in politics is not Community. Take the Nethys case: yesterday, Members of Parliament wanted to intervene in the Walloon Parliament on the Nethys case, it was forbidden to them! I take advantage of the few minutes that have been given to me here in the Federal Parliament to address the matter, because in the Walloon Parliament we cannot talk about it. What's this business? Stéphane Moreau, 18 000 euros: cling cling! Luc Partoun, Director of Liège Airport, 20 million euros: cling cling! What's that signal we're giving the population? Prime Minister, what is your personal opinion on the El Kaouakibi affair? What do you think of that? Do you think that's normal in politics? The people have a right to know what they're talking about. Secondly, should structural measures such as those proposed by GRECO not be taken? GRECO proposes the publication of the assets of political agents. It was the advice that was given last week...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u29	Madam President, Mr Hedebouw, first of all I would like to make it clear that everyone with a public mandate has an exemplary role. You will understand, however, that I will not get involved in individual matters from the government. For this purpose, public prosecutors and investigators are required. The government must not interfere in this. You're asking my opinion. Now, any proven form of malpractice, whether suspicious transactions, proven malpractice or financial tampering with public funds, for example, within an intercommunal, party financing or misuse of a mandate, must be dealt with vigorously. There can be no doubt about that. Such proven malpractices undermine democracy and our institutions and are to the detriment of everyone, including our citizens. Proven malpractices need to be tackled vigorously, which by the way, is done by prosecutors, investigators and judges. By the way, we need to go even further. In the coalition agreement we have entered a part of a political renewal. We are counting on the Chamber to be able to claim it. It concerns, among other things, the modernisation of the electoral law, which should be made simpler and more transparent, and a reform of the Members' Statute. Let us take advantage of this reform in such a way that we have mechanisms that bring out malpractice more quickly, mechanisms that ensure faster transparency, so that we can put the finger on possible wrongdoings. Thus, malpractices can be dealt with and punished more quickly. There is no distinction between majority and opposition. After all, there is no reason to be tolerant to proven cases. It is ultimately about the credibility of our democracy. In a credible democracy, there is no place for people who have been proven to be engaged in self-service.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u30	Prime Minister, you are sending out an important signal today, but it must be done immediately and not just about the malpractices, as you say. There is currently a debate on political morality. Take your own party, for example: 50,000 euros have been given to an independent candidate. That's not illegal, but can it be ethically justified? What does that say about politics? Someone usually does politics for ideas, for struggles, to change society, but here someone just gets 50,000 euros to run her own campaign. There's a problem there, isn't there? That's a discussion too. Look at the donations to the parties. There's just too much money in the parties. That is why I propose that we reduce these amounts. Is everyone okay with that? We're all going through two or three parts. I see everyone likes that. Next week, we will table our bill to reduce the amount of money to the parties. For example, there is no longer a plethora of money from which one does not even know what to do with it. Then one should just give candidates 50,000 euros (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u31	Your speaking time is over, Mr Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u32	Madam President, Minister, this morning we had the ruling of the European Court of Justice on certain elements of the Belgian law on port work, known to us as the Major Act. In mid-September, the Advocate General addressed the European Court with his opinion. The system whereby companies within the port area are obliged to work only with authorised port workers was not under discussion, especially when this is necessary for security reasons. However, certain elements of the recruitment procedure, such as recruitment through joint committees, are being attacked. According to the Court, they are contrary to European Union law. The Council of State and the Constitutional Court must now take a further decision on this matter. We do not know how that will end, of course, but this ruling can and will have consequences for the way in which port workers are recruited and admitted to the pool. For example, the gateway will probably be opened for greater social dumping and for the further erosion of the social status. After all, we all know that the opponents of the Major Act, both in Flanders and in Europe, will not rest. Unfortunately, I also fear the worst in this House. A few months ago, when discussing your policy letter, we addressed this announced problem and then made a policy recommendation. I quote them literally: "The committee, after hearing the Minister of Work Dermagne, calls for all legal means to protect our Major law." When all the parties, including the Socialists and the Communists, who are about to speak, voted against with conviction, the port worker immediately knew who his comrades were at the barricade and who was not. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What steps are being taken to deal with the consequences of this ruling? How can we safeguard the unique protection system of the Major Act from further erosion in the future? What concrete measures will you take to prevent social dumping in our ports?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u33	Mr. Secretary, it's cold outside. It's hard work outside. It's winter. There's a pandemic. But the dock workers, like many other workers, continue. In the middle of winter and in the middle of the pandemic, they make the harbor big. They guarantee enormous productivity. But that productivity is based on a good statute. This status cannot be separated from productivity, and productivity cannot be separated from that status. In other words, the Major Act is the basis of all port activity, because it protects the workers and prevents social dumping in the port area, which we see today in transport, at the airport and in construction. Instead of extending protection to other sectors, a number of forces want to restrict the protection of port labour. Someone like Fernand Huts, solar king and friend of some here in Parliament, millionaire, has started a process to get rid of the port workers' statute. That's what today's about. The European Court of Justice has delivered its ruling on this matter today, and it is in favour of the Statute itself. One can have a recognition as a protected group in our country. That's very important, and a jaw blow for Huts. But, there's a big but. The Major Act is based on two fundamental pillars. The first pillar is the union's participation in recognition, and the second pillar, as you know, is the pool system. If we pull out these two fundamental pillars, we will of course no longer have the Major Act but an empty box of Major. That empty box will once again allow social dumping. That is why I have one question for you, Minister. In all matters pending, will you make every effort to ensure that safety, social protection and trade union consultation are given priority consideration in the protection of port labour in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u34	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what happens when the protection of port workers is undermined? What impact does that have on their wages? What impact does that have on port security? If you believe that this erosion doesn't matter, you should ask truck drivers who, under the guise of free movement, drive for hours in a row, tired to death. Imagine the need for port workers in our port to compete with hourly wages of people from the Philippines or Malaysia, who may be here once or twice a year in our port. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Mr Minister, apart from the Court's ruling, the question is therefore whether we in the Chamber are prepared to protect those concerned from social dumping. If the answer is yes, we can also protect them. We just have to want it. For too long, the Major Act has been a part of political games. At least that's gotta stop. The law is a means; the goal is central. When I speak to the port workers, they tell me that they are extremely proud at work and that they are ready for the supply day and night, even now in corona times, but that they are also worried. They have been worried for years because they fear losing respect and fear that that respect will be taken away from them. They just want their fair share of the cake. The sp.a stands for this purpose, namely a safe workplace in the port and, of course, a reward that stands or belongs to those great achievements that are delivered in our ports. That is why I have one question. What will you do to ensure the social protection of our dock workers after today's ruling?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u35	Madam President, this morning the Court of Justice ruled in Luxembourg on the Major Act. The Court ruled on the compatibility of the Belgian port labour system with European law. We haven't had time to thoroughly analyse the judgment, but I can give you a few broad lines. The Major Act stands first and foremost. That is particularly important. The law has been providing for 50 years for performing ports where well-trained port workers work in safe conditions. The European Court also recognises this now. The judgment shows that the principle of the law is not contrary to European law and European rules. The safety and prevention of accidents at work is a rule of general interest which allows for an obligation of recognition. However, the European Court has a number of questions concerning the practical arrangements for the recognition of port workers. I will analyse the verdict well, with our lawyers, the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation and the social partners. For example, over the next 50 years, we can also work together to ensure effective and safe ports and good social protection for our port workers. It is important that this is a preliminary ruling procedure, as has been said. National judges will give another ruling. They shall take account of the judgment of the Court, but also of all the concrete elements of the case. There's a case pending before the Constitutional Court and the Council of State. Of course, we cannot anticipate that today. We will first continue to defend the file in the national courts. If certain adjustments are needed, I will work with the social partners to find good solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u36	Thank you for your answer. The Flemish interest remains on the side of the port workers. We support the men and women who work under the protection of the Major Act, those who travel day and night to keep our economy and our country running and to guarantee the import and export of Flanders, even in corona times. Whether the sun burns or the stones freeze from the ground, the harbor worker stood there and stands there. Thanks to the Major Act, he does so in the best conditions: well-educated, with strict safety rules and well protected when he is out of work for a day. That is what the Flemish interest wants to preserve, not only because it is good for the dock worker, but also because it provides social peace and productive ports with relatively few accidents at work. We are opposed to any further erosion of that statute. We do not allow the recognized port labour to be destroyed by its opponents in Belgium and Europe. We do not allow the port to be destroyed by social dumping, as has been done with the transport sector or the construction sector. Not with us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u37	Colleagues, there are two sides to the verdict. There is a positive side: there may be a protected status. We would better discuss this with this Parliament in order to extend that protection to the airport, transport and construction sectors. I would like to see the voting behaviour of all the parties, including those who say here today that they are in favour of the Major Act but have approved all liberalisation measures in Europe. There is also a negative side to the matter, in particular the possibility of hollowing out the Major Act and taking it down. Minister, I expected your commitment to defend the social protection and participation of the trade unions at all levels with all your power. You have not spoken of this, and I hope you will do so. I also have a message for the Flemish interest. I've been following this file for ten years or more. You've always fought the port unions. Two years ago, Mr Van Rooy said in a debate that he advocated an amendment to the Major Act, in particular that trade union participation should be removed. So you shouldn't be hypocritical about the Major Act today. You are against the participation of the unions in the port! You're a wolf in sheepskin.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u38	Mr Minister, it is true that the ruling was only made this morning. The principle remains valid, but we need to examine this statement thoroughly. We must work together with the social partners to see how we can guarantee the social protection of port workers. That is what we have always done over the past 20 years, and we have always worked side by side with the port workers to find solutions. We will do so again now, so that their social protection remains guaranteed and so that they are protected from social dumping.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u39	Minister, the corona crisis is very deep in everyone's mind, but for those who have lost their jobs, it is much heavier. Some are unemployed for the first time in their lives, without a view of a job; they worked in the catering industry, the cultural sector or the event sector and are now at home. In Belgium we have a system to help the unemployed. They may rely on unemployment benefits paid by the trade unions or the Auxiliaries for unemployment benefits. This prevents people from falling into poverty. If one can no longer pay one's rent or if one no longer knows how to pay one's groceries and watch his savings account drain, then despair increases. However, the system is failing today. People hook up in the back of an endless line and get their benefits way too late. Just now, in this crisis situation, the system should prove its strength, but instead it leaves people in the cold. Even if you fill out all the documents correctly, it may take a while before you receive your benefit. You have answered Parliament's questions on this on several occasions, but the delay in the aid fund remains. In the worst distress one can still go to the OMCW, but if even that very last emergency option can no longer handle the applications and gives the government the signal that it cannot go on like this, then the problem is big, very big. Minister, my party is very concerned. People are being pushed into poverty because the safety net doesn't work. Hence my question. Now that all the emergency agencies and even the OCMW are giving that distress signal, what will you do to help the payout settings? What will you do to prevent the poverty trap for new unemployed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u40	Last week, Minister, it became clear how painful the situation of the temporary unemployed, who have not yet been paid out, is. I got the message from someone who had to go to the OCMW to get an income, pending payment of her benefit. Reports in the media show that this is not an isolated case. The Auxiliaries have to deal with some 2,000 files from November, some 4,000 files from December and by January it is now 10% of the files. That's huge. Last time, you said there was no budget to keep 40 employees in service. I understand that a solution has been found in the meantime, and you may recruit another 100 people. So there is something wrong with the organization and the communication and there the shoe pinches. A lot of people are taking huge steps to get in touch with a staff member to discuss their file and possibly get a solution. The numbers say enough. I repeat, it is not the staff of the Auxiliaries who are double folding. Assistance should be provided from expert personnel. The RVA has already helped. This could possibly be extended. We must not risk that people are at risk of falling into poverty because of a malfunctioning device. The bills, the loans, the rent, the school bill, everything keeps going through. These people are entitled to a smooth treatment, but above all to that benefit. Minister, what are you proposing as a structural solution for the future? What measures are feasible in the short term to remove files, so that people do not have to go to the OMCW for benefits? Do you think the solution lies in further digitisation or in other measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u41	Minister, joining unemployment benefits is a leap back in time. It is not only the Auxiliary Cash for unemployment benefits that suffers from problems in terms of services, including other pay-out institutions, the trade unions themselves. There is no late reply to e-mails, telephone accessibility appears to be a problem and there is a delay in previously complex files of benefit recipients. These people must therefore wait months for their benefits. Unemployed people who are less digitally informed can go to the local department of their union, but here too, waiting times are increasing. Worse still, according to the newspapers, even in this freezing cold, dozens of people spend hours every morning at the Antwerp ABBV, hoping for one of the 70 tickets to apply for unemployment benefit. If you do not have a ticket, you will be asked to return the next day or you will be referred bluntly to, for example, the Auxiliary Cash or the RVA. Because many of them are still struggling to make ends meet, the logical consequence is that they are knocking on the door of the OCMW, where they can get an advance on unemployment benefits. Those applications are reported to have increased by 80%. Minister, can such a situation be justified a year after the start of this crisis? What's your plan of action? Will you, for example, work on an independent Auxiliaries, one independent payout institution that works properly? As far as the OMCW is concerned, have you discussed this with your colleague responsible for the fight against poverty?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u42	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the testimonies that have emerged over the last few days through the media are dramatic. There's the chef who's been waiting five months for his benefit. Five months, colleagues. In the meantime, that man is threatening to be evicted from his home. A mommy of three kids tried hundreds of times to reach the Auxiliaries. Not until the money to buy food is gone for the babies, she gets what she's entitled to. So there are people who don't have the money to buy food anymore. That is not so to speak, that is literally interpretable. Why is that? That is because those people do not get what they are entitled to, namely unemployment benefits. Those people are entitled to benefits, but they have to wait, sometimes for months. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the point of granting aid here if we do not succeed in getting the aid where it belongs? The result is that our local authorities are being flooded. The OCMWs are pulling the alarm bell. If people have nowhere else to go, they will contact the OCMW, hoping to get an advance on their benefit there. The OMCW serves as a waiting room for social security. That's disturbing. Minister, how will you ensure that these people finally get their unemployment benefits and that these waiting times are a thing of history once and for all? In order to function optimally, the Auxiliary Cash needs more resources. Are you prepared to appeal to the corona commission to help the employees of the Auxiliaries?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u43	Mr Minister, the problem has been going on for weeks now: women and men are now waiting for their unemployment benefits to be paid. I put myself in their place and imagine the anxiety and distress that they must feel in these circumstances, facing financial difficulties for months and, for many, with a dependent family. Of course, the situation is unprecedented. Of course, let us emphasize the work of these payment agencies, which are working without counting to cope with the influx of new cases to be dealt with. I had already asked you about the matter and you had told me that part of the delay, in any case, had been eliminated. However, let's face it: this is not enough. Solutions must be found. Additional resources must be made available to support the efforts of these workers. I am convinced that you are just as alarmed as I am by the distress of these thousands of people waiting. You had already assured us of your support within the government to put in place urgent measures and strengthen services in difficulty. Minister, can you reassure all of these people that this problem will be caught up in the hands of the government and that the situation will be normalized as soon as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, like you, I am very concerned about the difficulties that workers are currently experiencing with their unemployment benefits. The health crisis has a serious impact on employment, but thanks to our strong social security, a social massacre of workers and self-employed people has been avoided. Unemployed people must, of course, receive their benefits as soon as possible. It is therefore essential that the HVW operates optimally. The situation remains critical, although it has improved. I have given figures to you on Tuesday in committee and will communicate them to you again today. The number of payments made is enormous: there were 139,779 payments in November 2020, 99,016 in December 2020 and 84,811 in January 2021. There are, of course, too many pending cases. For example, there were 2,059 for the month of November, or 1.4%, as Ms De Jonghe recalled. However, I would like to point out that 500 of these applications were not submitted until 2021. For December, 3,994 cases remain, or almost 4%, and by January 2021 work is still under way, but approximately 10 per cent of the cases remain to be processed. These figures, of course, need to be examined with caution and somewhat nuanced. On the one hand, some applications were submitted only a few weeks ago or even a few days ago. For example, 750 files were introduced in February 2021 for the month of December 2020. On the other hand, we must be careful because some of these applications will not ultimately lead to the payment of a temporary unemployment benefit because the people who apply for it will not be entitled to it. They will therefore have to be referred to other services. Pressure on front-line services – especially with regard to telephone calls – is slowly starting to decrease. Indeed, we went from 27,271 calls at the beginning of this month to 11,400 on Wednesday. This decrease is the result of the CAPAC system, which includes, inter alia, the organization of video conferencing with applicants and beneficiaries or chats to enable applicants to respond more accurately and possibly request the production of certain documents. The decline is also the result of the additional efforts made by CAPAC, thanks to the commitment of students to the simplest tasks and repetitive tasks, to the mobilization of federal public servants, but above all to the commitment of some 40 people in 2020, funded through the Corona interdepartmental provision. Like many of you, I would like to acknowledge the work of CAPAC employees. Since March, they have been working every weekend, including holidays. Even on Christmas and New Year's Day, these workers were faithful to the post. The HRW staff are working extremely hard to catch up, as hard as they can, but they are now close to exhaustion. Of course, we cannot content ourselves with what has already been done and which has made it possible to eliminate part of the delay. Efforts must be continued, and initiatives must be stepped up, particularly in the area of digitalisation. A huge amount of work has already been done at this level. In addition, I have already taken some steps and will continue to do so. In consultation with the RVA and the HVW, I decided to grant an additional period of one month for the verification procedure of the file. In this way, we make time available to the experts of the HVW to deal with complex dossiers. I also requested the Corona provision to ensure that the 40 people who were hired in the course of 2020 and who were trained to deal with these complex issues could be maintained within CAPAC. This will allow the processing of late files as quickly as possible, all the other files that will be added to them in the coming days and weeks, and, I hope as little as possible in the coming months. It is essential that every person entitled to an allowance be able to obtain it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The employees of the trade unions and the staff of the Auxiliaries are doing their utmost. You've provided additional staff. You're working on a solution. Thank you for that. However, it will take some time for this solution to produce results. Indeed, the lead time of new employees often also takes a long time. On the other hand, if you are entitled to a benefit and you do not receive it, you already have a problem. One cannot wait a few more weeks or months. As President-in-Office of the OMW, I myself find that in some cases there is a threat of expulsion and so the people concerned cannot wait. My party therefore asks you, in this unprecedented time of crisis, to consider having the RVA pay an advance on the benefits in advance. This can help the people concerned right now, and it is a solution for many right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have discussed the subject several times and it remains a difficult point, but I will keep knocking on that nail, because that is important for those who do not receive their benefit today. We must not underestimate what this brings about in the families concerned. It is unacceptable that workers who have been contributing to social security for many years and who now have to resort to social security should not receive their benefits. Given the scale of the problem, I would even recommend that you allow a one-on-one relationship with a staff member of the Auxiliary Cash Office to discuss dossiers. Not everyone is able to work by digital means. I would also ask you to consider whether the RVA can be used for the very complex dossiers. We must avoid poverty for the unemployed. It's our responsibility to take care of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u47	Madam President, Minister, it is good to look into our own hearts. For months now, the entire file has been transferred to the Emergency Cash Office for unemployment benefits. In the current debate, too, the only main culprit is apparently again the Hulpkas. It is unacceptable for the trade unions to continue to sabotage the operation of the aid fund for the greater honour and glory of themselves and, at the same time, to leave the unemployed with only a few euros in their accounts literally and figuratively in the cold. I have no other word for it: that is a scandal. I repeat that you must now work at last on one efficient and independent aid fund which must be able to do what it is supposed to do quickly and efficiently, namely to provide aid and assistance to the unemployed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u48	Madam President, Minister, you say that there is progress and that you are aware that the problem is serious. That's good, but that's not enough. After all, every delayed file is not a number but a person with a family. That's food on the table. That's rent that needs to be paid. People must be properly informed and benefits must be paid on time. So these abuses must be resolved as quickly as possible. Additional staff has already been recruited at the Hulpkas. I also know that every employee at the Auxiliaries is doing his or her utmost to complete every dossier as quickly as possible. However, more resources are needed. I understand from you that you are prepared to appeal to the 2021 corona commission to make additional efforts. I'm glad to hear that. We will continue to follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that additional resources will be put in place, with the commitment of 40 people. That's a good thing. But above all, I hear your willingness to act as quickly as possible within this government to ensure that all these people benefit from faster handling of their pending cases, in order to guarantee the financial security to which they are entitled. I'm counting on you not to let go of anything, and I'll be behind you so you won't let go!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u50	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, this question concerns the VAT system in the catering sector. It is really not going well with many companies in the sectors that are still closed, despite the good and much-needed measures taken, such as the right of bridging and temporary unemployment. The figures speak for themselves. For the catering industry alone, there is a turnover loss of 8 billion for 2020 and for the first quarter of 2021. This crisis could lead to the loss of up to 33,000 jobs in sectors where low-skilled workers are often employed. Yesterday, in the Committee on Economics, I heard testimonies from the catering industry, the smaller and larger businesses, the suppliers, the travel sector, the event sector and the taxi companies associated with it. One thing was clear. They only have one certain perspective, and those are financial worries or, worse still, bankruptcy. Often these self-employed people are hit twice because they stand in front of them as couples. For a long time, workers in these sectors have also received only 70% of their wages, which also puts them in poverty. It was to be quiet. They're begging to reopen as soon as possible, and they're right. That would be a positive step. I am therefore pleased that the Prime Minister said that as soon as the epidemiological situation and the vaccination roll-out allow, we will not allow this situation to drag on for another day. They call for more equal treatment of aid between regions and for the existing aid measures to be extended, as has already been done in the case of the right of bridging. I would also like to give you a list of points for a subsequent Consultation Committee. It would be too much to sum up here, so let me summarize them. The reopening and the relance must be fully prepared. How can these people get back to work in a profitable way? They may not be able to reopen with the same capacity as before. One thing's for sure. They want to be treated equally and they all want to reopen safely together, with respect for security measures. As regards the temporary VAT scheme, I heard that the 6% in October (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u51	Madam President, Minister, it is almost a year since Coronavirus reached our country and, in order to safeguard our health care system and our population, a lot of health measures have been taken, more or less stringent measures according to the evolution of the pandemic. These measures have a cost not only for the State budget but also for all sectors affected. This cost is economic but also psychological, because we are always calling for more effort, courage and solidarity from our fellow citizens. Some sectors are more affected than others. They represent places of meeting and sharing. I am, of course, talking about Horeca, an area for which, in addition to economic insecurity, there is a profound psychological distress. Vaccination offers a glimpse of happy and new prospects. As you know, the sector has in the past been supported through targeted and specific measures, in particular by the reduction of VAT on catering services, which was adopted at 31 December 2020. In committee, you have repeatedly announced an action plan. Mr Minister, in view of these new prospects that are emerging from vaccination and the need for this sector to finally see the light at the end of the tunnel, very concretely, can we hope to see the 6% VAT measure for the extended Horeca? On the other hand, can you tell us more about the government's action plan for Horeca? Do you already have any concrete measures to announce to us? In short, can we turn the hope of vaccination into a concrete and clear perspective for the horeca sector, which suffers enormously?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the questions. I repeat what I have said several times. It is my absolute priority, but also the government's priority, to guide families and healthy businesses through the crisis and to protect them as much as possible from the impact of the crisis. I have said this several times here, and I repeat it again today, with conviction. We all hope, of course, that we can look forward. We do indeed hope, Mrs Verhelst, that we can send out a signal as soon as possible that the sector can open up again. There is therefore a need for an exit plan, and that plan will indeed have to look at how we can translate aid measures into recovery measures in a sensible way. Even after the hard-hit sectors, such as Horeca and the event sector, have finally been able to reopen their doors, it will be essential to provide them with effective support. In the light of the previous reopening, the previous government has indeed taken the decision to reduce VAT to 6%, in order to support the catering industry. This measure expired at the end of December last year. Once the Horeca sector can reopen, it will once again be able to count on my support and that of this government, in which I put forward two possible tax measures to make this support tangible. Firstly, this is a renewed reduction in the VAT rate to 6% for restaurant and catering costs and, secondly, the extension of the 100% deductibility for reception costs. Those two measures will be important at the moment when the sector will be able to reopen and they can also boost the start-up process. We also need to look at how we can still support these sectors, so that they can continue to survive today. The government is therefore working on a package which includes the extension of existing aid measures, but also a number of new aid measures. One of the measures under consideration concerns the scheme where landlords are fiscally encouraged to voluntarily and formally cancel their rents to their tenants. This measure will be able to provide strong support to many entrepreneurs, but certainly to the catering sector. Of course, support measures are still on the table today to support the catering sector. Of course, we are also looking at ways in which we can provide recovery measures, so that we can fully support this sector when it restarts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u53	Thank you for the positive note on the rent, Minister. The rent of the catering industry amounts to 25% of their fixed costs. This may be helpful, but I hope that entrepreneurs will find each other in it together. The budgetary impact is already very heavy, so we cannot apply unbridled measures. We must therefore consider these measures very carefully and perhaps take greater account of where the need is highest. We must certainly all maintain a positive communication and atmosphere. This will restore consumer confidence. For example, travellers are pushed into damnation. The negative is so heavy. The travel sector also wants to be encouraged because of its local character. There is Internet tourism, but there is also tourism in local trade. Those people are now only open to cope with the misery of the previous voyages. It is therefore very important that we not only take action, but also have positive communication and that consumers have confidence and some perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answers. We take note of your announcements, which we welcome, concerning the continuation and extension of the measures in force, as well as the new rent provision. Offering opportunities to the Horeca also means offering opportunities to the entire population. We all aspire, indeed, to find these places of conviviality which we perceive today, more than ever, the social role. Since you are talking about revival and reopening, it would also mean a return to a certain normality. More generally, it is time – and you are aware of it – for us to take the subject of recovery in arms and to offer, as you have just done, perspectives to many sectors. I'm not just talking about the Horeca, I'm talking about the event, which you pinned earlier. All these activities are in great pain at the moment. These measures will take into account not only the economic aspect, but also all the psychological distress that our fellow citizens face today. Thank you for supporting them!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u55	Minister, we have called on the people to make efforts. You are well aware of that. For almost a year and a half we have not seen a family, young people do not see their friends, get out of the car must be pushed aside, and unfortunately agreements with friends cannot at this time either. We have all done this out of solidarity with each other and with vulnerable groups. You have often announced, Minister, that the realm of freedom is in sight. But if so, I wonder, especially since I have to observe that there are two speeds. The regions prepare the vaccination centres at top speed; they have the resources ready and the constructions are there. But the regions say that there is a shortage of vaccines at the vaccination centres to work effectively. Of course, we are all doing our best to get supplies into the country as soon as possible and, of course, the government is putting pressure on us. But we really need to go faster. We must ensure that vaccines are here as soon as possible so that vaccination centres can do their job. Our vaccination rate is directly linked to our freedoms. That's why I'm asking for urgency. Minister, my questions are very clear and very brief. What about the deliveries? Did the vaccination centres actually receive the message that they will receive about two hundred vaccines at the first delivery? I do not think that is enough to start with. Can you give us an update? How soon will it be effective? Is the realm of freedom really coming at us?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u56	Mrs Farih, the people have indeed made enormous efforts, and they are still doing so. On the other hand, I am pleased that we have excellent cooperation with the Länder, trying hand in hand to roll out the vaccination campaign as well as possible. I am therefore very grateful to the representatives of the Länder, with whom I am constantly working, Mr Beke for Flanders, for the cooperation, but also the mayors, the people on the ground and so on. That effort is enormous. In fact, on 8 January, I did say once that you were there at the time that it means that freedom is finally in sight. I said that once. You found that very promising at the time. It is rather strange that the vaccination campaign as it is now being rolled out actually has a head start on the schedule that we welcomed together. That is, of course, a bit strange, while in the meantime people are becoming unlucky and very nervous. That's true for you and me, but much more for the people in the hospitals and the doctors in the first line waiting for vaccination. So that is a strange paradox: in fact, the campaign is a little ahead of schedule that we welcomed together, and yet we are all increasingly nervous and even unhappy about the course of events. This has to do with the fact that there has been a great deal of uncertainty in the weekly planning of the delivery of vaccines. We have seen this again this week: the Moderna company was originally supposed to deliver more than 90,000 doses on 15 February, but it suddenly announced that this would not happen until 22 February. This is very painful for the staff of the hospitals who had registered in the agenda when the vaccination would happen. That is very painful and very frustrating. I fear that my good colleagues in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia do not really have a solution for that and, frankly, neither do we. However, we express our deep frustration and constantly ask the industry to be clearer about the planning, to let us know more in advance how the planning is going, and to inform us earlier about the delivery failures. That is absolutely necessary. That is also the only answer to the growing frustration with regard to these unexpected movements of delay. We are also putting pressure on the European Commission to get as much clarity and clarity as possible in the negotiations with industry. Precisely because we want to vaccinate as soon as possible, we are sensitive to every failure in deliveries. I hope you understand this and that you will explain it to anyone who speaks to you about it, to the extent that you can. That does not, of course, remove frustration, the painful finding that one hopes to get a vaccine but then gets the message that it has been postponed again. That is painful and annoying, but I am sure that we will eventually win with this vaccination campaign. I say this on the basis of the extremely good cooperation with the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u57	Minister, you know that I often address you on this subject in committee, but I hope you will also understand that delays and frustrations can turn into mistrust. I therefore hope that you will continue to press the buttons where necessary, either with the European Union or with the pharmaceutical industry. We really need to make sure that we get ahead, because the vaccination centres that are already there must also be able to start effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u58	Madam President, Minister, the coalition agreement states: "We ask experts to develop an approach to reduce the impact of seriously addicted parents and future parents on children." This week, during a rather painful debate on the subject, it appeared that there is little consensus on this issue within this government team. I suspect, Minister, that you are sensitive to this problem, just as you are sensitive to your fight against sexual abuse. It's in the coalition agreement, so you're gonna have to get on with it one way or the other. You may know that there is a proposal on this issue which will be adapted to the opinion of the Council of State. By the way, I requested it myself. For me, the objective is crystal clear, but it needs to be handled with particular care. Destroying that advice is not at all, as Green said, but it does indicate how we make it compulsory for women to rehab to avoid drug babies to work out the best legal approach. Something must be done, because it is a fact that every day children are born who from the start do not have any chance of a full life, who have to rehab the first weeks of their lives from their mother's drugs and who come into the world with restrictions and surrounded by very little love. We need to avoid this as well as possible. What is more, we must regard the protection of our children from all forms of abuse and abuse as an absolute core task of the government. I hope we all agree on that. Then we're gonna have to deal with this, too. The opinion of the Council of State states that this must be addressed at all levels of competence, if this is to be fully addressed. That is why I started a working group, over those powers, with experts at the table, to look at this. It will have to cross opposition and majority. That too has become painfully clear this week. Mr. Secretary, will you join us? Are you with me? How do you interpret the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u59	Madam President, Mrs van Peel, in the coalition agreement to which you refer, we are indeed saying that we want to reform the law of 26 June 1990 on the protection of the person of the mentally ill. In this context, we will indeed ask experts to develop an approach to reduce the impact of seriously addicted parents on children. That is a very important issue, because it is about equal opportunities. Everyone must have equal opportunities to start life. Unfortunately, too many children start living with a disadvantage. It is horrible to see that some children have to physically get rid of their mother's addiction from birth and end up in a problematic home situation. It is therefore a good thing that you and your former colleague John Crombez took an initiative on this issue on 13 February 2020, almost a year ago. Advice was sought from the Council of State and also from the National High Council for Persons with Disability. With these critical but constructive opinions, we can get to work. I had a particular eye for the point where it is said that we should pay attention to the undesirable side effects of the legislative proposal, in particular that a general legal provision may also unduly affect target groups other than the intended target group. So we have to be very careful about this. Like you, I've seen the TV debate, in which the moods got really heated. However difficult and emotional the debate may be, I think we should be able to talk about it in a reasonable way. That is why we will seek advice from experts. I am committed to involving Parliament, and yourself in particular. For me it is not a matter of majority versus opposition, but of the whole Parliament. So, yeah, I'm in. I hope you're in.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u60	Minister, I've already started, but I'm very glad you're in. For the sake of clarity, the project with which I started also goes much wider than that alone. It will cover the different levels of competence and embrace a more global approach to the fight against child abuse with the experts at the table. After all, I absolutely agree with you that in such a sensitive debate their presence is very important and that the legal impact of these matters is also very important. I therefore repeat that I requested the opinion myself. I take the advice that has come back with me in the details. This point is in the coalition agreement. I am very pleased with your answer. I just hope you can convince your partners of that. I am already working on an impact, but there is no problem in discussing it. On the contrary, I wouldn't rather ask. If we can agree with the whole of Parliament that the protection of children does not deserve political games, I am a very happy person today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u61	Madam Secretary, energy is a basic product. That is why I find the punishment that we can be fooled at the door in our country and that a seller often applies a long-term and expensive contract. I think this is particularly punishment at a time when families in our country are already having a hard time paying their energy bill and are already feeling the playball of the big energy suppliers today. Some will think it's probably about older people or people who don't understand their energy bill properly. No, it's about every family in our country. I am convinced that a smooth salesman who comes to the front door at a time when he is not prepared can have many consumers sign a contract within five minutes with his fine talk. That is also apparent from the figures. In 2019, there were more than 7,000 complaints to the Ombudsdienst voor Energie about such practices. In my opinion, the best evidence is the announcement by Eneco to stop door-to-door sales in the Netherlands, because it damaged their customers' confidence. It even admits that there are too many abuses in that area. Madam Minister, I do not want to wait until all the energy companies realize that it is not the right way to deal with sales. I think the problem is far too big for that. Together with colleagues from the PS, we have tabled a bill banning these practices. Today I am asking you in particular how you will prevent an energy product from being sold at the door and that expensive contracts can be concluded there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u62	Thank you, Mr Verduyckt, for your question. The stories about people being fooled by smooth salesmen's practices at the door are not single stories. I invited the poverty groups. They've told the same stories. There aren't just stories, there are numbers. You mentioned them. For five years we have seen an increase in the number of complaints. In 2015, there were 251 complaints about door-to-door sales, in 2019 800. This means that in barely five years there are three times as many complaints. There may have been a decrease in 2020, some will say, but that has everything to do with the corona crisis, and moreover, complaints have also shifted to complaints about internet sales and sales by telephone. Behind each number lies such a story of intrusiveness at the door, of being invasive at the door, of cowboys at the door, of crooks putting on expensive contracts. I am convinced, together with you, Mr Verduyckt, that these scams and cowboys can get out. Door-to-door sales are regulated by the European Consumer Directive. It's a legal commercial practice. But it is not because we cannot forbid them with a drawing of pens, that I want to hide behind them, or that I accept them. The directives also stipulate that we can be stricter, precisely in the interests of consumer protection. We must not lose sight of the wider context. Many consumers are still trapped in an expensive contract. There are also problems selling over the internet and selling by phone. It is also very important to continue to guarantee the movement in this market: 2.2 million families have contracts that are the most expensive in the market. What shall we do about door-to-door sales? We will ensure greater transparency and better regulation. Firstly, we will review the consumer agreement. My colleague, Eva De Bleeker, and I have already started that. For the first time, we will also involve poverty organisations. Secondly, I want more insight. I would like to ask the CREG which contracts are sold at the door. I share your suspicion that it is often the most expensive contracts that are sold at the door. Thirdly, I want a consumer who signs a contract to be always aware of the tariffs offered by the supplier, including at the door. A consumer must be able to see at the door what the products are, what rates apply and what the content of the contract he will sign with the energy supplier. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the key word here is trust. The energy market is facing enormous challenges in the coming years and confidence is central to this. The public authorities must provide a clear and legally secure framework, including consumer protection, so that strong energy suppliers offer robust contracts and provide the best services. At the same time, we must be able to guarantee consumers that they will sign the best contract for them without being fooled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u63	Madam Minister, I am glad that you not only share my concern, but that you will also take action. For sp.a it is clear that the time of freedom and happiness must be over, whether it is about too complex invoices, dormant energy contracts or the quoted sales practices, and you have mentioned some others. Consumers must not feel powerless in relation to energy companies. That's important. You say that we must take a number of steps. Today, I call for a solution to be found together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u64	This concludes the time for oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u65	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 43: Hervé Rigot, Christophe Lacroix, Patrick Prévot, Eliane Tillieux, Özlem Özen, Daniel Senesael, Laurence Zanchetta - 974: Simon Moutquin, Evita Willaert, Barbara Creemers, Laurence H annoyance, Séverine de Laveleye.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u66	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (43/7) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (43/7) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur, Mrs Dominiek Sneppe, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution deals with a problem which is still too little known. These are children who are born with a variation in gender characteristics and who, from a young age, collide with many problems, often mainly caused by a lack of information and guidance. Originally, there were two motions for resolutions, one from the PS and one from Ecolo-Green. The majority parties then decided to continue working on the PS Group's proposal. We welcome this proposal, because it is very similar to the text adopted by the Council of Europe and to which the N-VA has made a major contribution. It is important in this dossier to address the problems faced by children with a variation in gender characteristics and their parents, without mixing this with a gender-related problem. Several hearings were organised in which experts and experience experts spoke. We have also contacted an experienced expert who does not feel at home in the earlier activist wing we have heard. According to Professor Cools, only a small minority of 3% have affinity with activist groups or lgbt. Our group therefore considers it important that the silent majority can also be recognised in this resolution, especially because it is such a strong majority. A number of things are important to us. Firstly, good information should be provided to children and their parents, but also to doctors. Secondly, good psychological guidance for children and their parents must be ensured. Thirdly, there must be a register so that variations and possible interventions are documented as well as possible. Fourthly, necessary interventions must of course be possible, but the child must also have a say in whether or not interventions are carried out. Finally, two reference centres should be set up, one for each region, bringing together knowledge and expertise, as these are variations that are rare. The sp.a had also tabled a legislative proposal in this area, but this was decoupled from it. We were in favour of adopting the bill, as a legislative proposal is mandatory and not a resolution proposal. The need to set up these centres of reference is, in my view, subject to consensus across the borders of the parties. We therefore find it regrettable that the majority will only vote in favour of a resolution. Of course, the Länder also have a role to play. Ideally, therefore, there will be good consultation, so that legislation will be created that protects people with a variation in gender characteristics, without stigmatising them. The latter is a matter that deserves attention. In most cases, people affected by an intersex variation consider that as a private matter, so potential discrimination or stigmatisation is not the main problem for many of them and they do not recognize themselves directly in that aspect either. The resolution's last request on gender registration also seems to be somewhat misplaced in this respect in the context of variations in gender characteristics, as the vast majority of people with variations identify themselves as boys or girls or as men or women. That does not, of course, alter the fact that this problem needs to be addressed. The Constitutional Court has also indicated this. However, it requires a general and broad public debate. One thought I made in committee is that the resolution has already been amended so heavily that its readability is no longer optimal. Our group had proposed that the text as a whole should be brought back to committee so that there could be a thorough exchange of views and the nuances in the text could be properly taken into account. However, that was not possible. We also did not want to delay unnecessarily and agree with the spirit of the text, albeit with the emphasis on the aspects that I have just explained. I would also like to stress once again that we heard very well during the hearings that the term 'intersexual persons', as it is also included in the title of the resolution, is not the term that the people who are themselves affected by the variations like to use. I would urge that this term be used solely for technical reasons in the context of the resolution before us and that we use, where appropriate, the scientific name of the variation in question, as requested by the persons concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, having the right to choose who we are is what our motion for a resolution clearly calls on our government to recognize the right to physical integrity of intersex persons. This motion for a resolution was tabled by my group almost two years ago, day to day, following meetings with associations on the ground, with intersex people who told us about them, their history, their physical suffering, their moral suffering as well. Subsequently, there was the colloquium organized in January 2019 by Nathalie Muylle, then Minister of Equal Opportunities and to which I had the opportunity to attend. This is an initiative that I welcome because it has provided an extremely poignant picture of the experiences of intersex people. At the same time, our House voted in favour of an amendment tabled by my colleague, Patrick Prévot, aimed at combating discrimination against intersex persons by adding sexual characteristics to the criteria protected by our anti-discrimination laws. This was a first step, but we knew we were going to have to go further, which we had the determination to do. My group has decided to make this fight for the fundamental rights of intersex persons a priority of the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities. According to the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, five children are born every day in Belgium with a variation in their sexual characteristics. Variations can be multiple. In most cases, however, they do not endanger the health of the persons concerned. Yet these children often face so-called normalizing changes without their consent. Simply because they differ from the norms of our society, which, we recognize, has a very binary vision in that it is necessary to be either male or female. As a result, from an early age, many intersex patients have had to undergo and are still undergoing surgery or hormonal treatments that are simply not necessary. For having heard them at length, they most of the time feel, as they say with so much modesty, "invisibility" throughout their lives. Many hearings have indeed been held in our committee: field associations (Intersex Belgium, Genres Pluriels ASBL), Belgian and international experts, the Equality Law Clinic of the ULB, the commissioners for the rights of the child. These hearings have shown us with great modesty and transparency, with great emotion, both in the head of the speakers and in each and every MP present at the time, that intersex people often find themselves without information about the interventions that were carried out during their childhood. The consequences of these interventions remain for many, their entire lives, synonymous with psychological and physical suffering. Some parents were encouraged to perform very early interventions on their child, even before their consent could be considered, under the normalizing pressure of some physicians, themselves lacking information. Some of these children therefore had to undergo psychiatric follow-up after mentioning the variation in their sexual characteristics. These are extremely difficult situations to live in. It's not about throwing the stone today or pointing at it. I have no doubt that both doctors and parents then thought of acting for the benefit of the child, but I also know that these changes, since they are not justified by health requirements and are not subject to the consent of individuals, are clearly contrary to the fundamental rights of these children because they violate their physical integrity, with dramatic consequences for most of them. These practices also run counter to many international laws and instruments. I am thinking of the European Convention on Human Rights, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the Jogjakarta Principles. These practices also run counter to the Law of 22 August 2002 on the Rights of the Patient, which recognizes, inter alia, the right to quality services, the right to all the information necessary to understand his state of health and his evolution, the right to freely consent to any intervention with prior information; the same Law, which also states that the patient must be involved in the exercise of his rights and may exercise them independently if he is deemed fit to assess his interests. On several occasions, United Nations bodies have also reprimanded Belgium for the worrying situation of the rights of intersex minors. In particular, it is recommended that the practice of surgical procedures be limited to their extreme necessity. This is the main objective of our resolution today: to put in place, in collaboration with representative associations, a legislative framework that protects the physical integrity of intersex minors and guarantees, except for medical necessity, the prohibition of any decision to modify the sexual characteristics of a minor without the informed consent of the minor. Following the hearings, important work was undertaken with colleagues from other groups to improve the text, to expand it and thus respond to the need that had been expressed. I would also like to thank them all, sincerely, for their involvement and collaboration. This text is the result of a rich collaboration and a common will to move forward. The demands we are making today to the government are clear and are all in line with the real recognition of intersex people and their rights. Among these, we wish to promote research, in consultation with the federated entities, in order to better understand current practices and to better respond to the needs of intersex individuals, while respecting their rights. We also consider it essential, in consultation with the federated entities, to inform, raise awareness and train properly all professionals who play an important role in the lives of intersex people, while at the same time allowing intersex people to benefit from psychosocial support if they feel the need for it. We also want at least two multidisciplinary reference centres for intersex people to be set up; centres that can provide the best possible services in terms of information, support, recognition, psychosocial and medical care. We also call for support for associations active in the defence and accompaniment of intersex persons. Finally, we plead, among other things, to review the gender registration system in order to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court of 19 June 2019. I will not be longer today on the requests made. It is a text that has been voted unanimously in the committee and is now in the hands of the government. I know that our Assembly will be attentive to the implementation of our demands for the recognition of intersex persons and their rights. Thank you to those who contributed to the outcome of this resolution: colleagues, experts, associations, including Intersex Belgium. Personally, thank you to Mr. Thierry Bosman. I also thank the one who brought this text into the shadows and gave it a life by translating our ideas. She's not in this room, she's probably behind her screen. Thank you Dorothy for the work done. This text is a step, not the biggest but the most important one. This is the first step towards the change of our society, a change in the name of freedom to be and choose who we are.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u69	Madam President, I am pleased to take the floor and I stress that we will vote today on a text that is really important. We and our socialist colleagues are carrying texts. Our text is a little more recent in time and it has been rewritten with the people concerned, the same civil society that contributed to the work of the text of the PS and the text of Ecolo-Groen. Intersex persons, who account for about 1.7% of the population, were born with physical sexual characteristics that do not fully correspond to the standards set by the medical world and/or the current socio-cultural conception of the environment in which the child was born. We live in a still largely binary world in which it is expected to be born either physically male or physically female. Variations in various sexual characteristics – we are talking about 40 variations today – are still too often seen as anomalies to be corrected. However, in the vast majority of cases, these variations do not affect the good health of intersex people. They are natural variations in sexual development. Today, in Belgium, when a child comes into the world with variations in his or her sexual characteristics, he or she is still too often subjected to medical procedures of normalization through surgery and/or hormonal treatment, without his or her free and informed consent and without medical necessity. These procedures are frequently justified on the basis of social prejudice, stigmatization of intersex bodies and administrative requirements for assigning a sex at birth. Interventions are often based on good intentions and are intended to avoid potential psychosocial stress projected by the child's medical profession and/or family. It is quite obvious that families or the medical profession requesting an intervention do not have a bad intention. Most of the time, it's about doing the right thing. It's often a projection. It is believed that the route will be easier because it is more in line with the dominant norms of society. However, such medical interventions, when carried out on children and are not medically justified, do not meet the fundamental rights of individuals, particularly those provided for in the patient's law: the right to physical integrity, the right to free and informed consent and the right to self-determination. We have held hearings to deal with this resolution. They have shown that these interventions can cause physical damage and serious and irreversible emotional distress in the people who have suffered them. It must be recognized that standardization interventions fall within the scope of mutilation. Several international texts already exist and require an end to standardization treatments. In particular, the Jogjakarta Principles emphasize that States must guarantee everyone the right to physical and mental integrity, autonomy and self-determination, regardless of gender identity, gender expression or sexual characteristics. We should also note a Council of Europe resolution on "promoting human rights and eliminating discrimination against intersex persons", the main objective of which is to put an end to acts aimed at normalizing the sexual characteristics of intersex persons. Finally, we note a resolution of the European Parliament of February 2019 on the right of intersex persons, which strongly condemns medical procedures for the standardization of intersex children. Member States are invited to adopt as soon as possible legislation protecting the physical integrity, autonomy and self-determination of these children. It should be noted that some European countries have already taken the lead, notably Malta and Portugal. We wouldn't want to be left behind. Belgium has also been questioned on several occasions. On 1 February 2019, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child called on Belgium to prohibit unnecessary medical treatment or surgery on intersex children when such procedures can be safely postponed until the child is able to give his or her informed consent. On 6 December 2019, the Human Rights Committee calls on Belgium to take the necessary measures to put an end to irreversible medical acts, in particular surgery performed on intersex children who are not yet in a position to give their free and informed consent, except where such interventions are absolutely necessary from a medical point of view. Furthermore, all the experts we have heard stress the need for Belgium to draw up a legal framework for the fundamental rights of intersex persons, in accordance with its international obligations. It is therefore urgent for Parliament to take up this issue, as evidenced by the two texts which are now coming to fruition. It is therefore with a great sense of urgency that we call on the government, through these motions for resolutions, to develop a legislative framework protecting intersex physical integrity, guaranteeing – unless medical necessity and emergency conditions make it impossible to delay the decision – the prohibition of any change in the sexual characteristics of a minor without the informed consent of the minor, whether for social, psychosocial, cultural or aesthetic reasons. This text also focuses on other essential aspects that I will no longer address here, especially since we have just received a slightly more comprehensive presentation of them. These include the need to ensure transparency of medical practices and to train and raise awareness among medical teams. Attention is also given to migrants who require special protection. This issue seemed essential to us. I would like to recall that Secretary of State Sarah Schlitz's policy note already recognizes that the mutilation of intersex children for aesthetic or normative purposes constitutes a serious violation of human rights. She also mentioned that she wanted to build on our work to advance legislation to protect the rights of intersex people. This is no surprise, since it contributed directly to the drafting of one of the two texts. Therefore, I have no doubt that we will be heard by her and the government as a whole. In conclusion, I would like to pay tribute to the enormous work of civil society, represented by Genres Pluriels, Intersex Belgium and the other experts who have been heard in this Parliament. For years, they have alerted us to the issue of intersex people. Without them, we would not have been able to succeed today. Finally, I agree with Mr Rigot in his satisfaction that human rights are being advanced today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u70	Madam President, we all know them, the most frequently asked question during pregnancy: is it a boy or a girl? It points to the fact that today there is still a great deal of value attached to the sex of a child. Whether this is right is a debate for another time. The resolution before it focuses on the rights of children with a variation of the phenotypic, chromosomal or gondadal sex. At birth, the sex is clear in the vast majority of cases, but sometimes doctors cannot determine it immediately. In another case, in puberty secondary sex development is not triggered or incomplete. About 1 in 2,000 people are born with natural body characteristics that our society does not regard as typically male or female. One speaks in this case of children with disorders or differences in gender development. For this so-called intersex condition, the term DSD is used, either differences or sex development. Inevitably, these people often see themselves as a third sex, a third sex. This is wrong, ladies and gentlemen, because there is no third sex or gender. We have learned a lot from the interesting hearings, but we would like to take this opportunity once again to express our regret that the association of parents of DSD children was not heard, just because the proposal came from the corner of the Flemish Interest. It again points to the fact that unjust antipathy around my party is stronger than an important social input into this debate. However, the parents of DSD children are without doubt an important group of experience experts. Above all, let us not forget that not all problems are solved by banning operations without the consent of the minor. It is also important to pay particular attention to the psychosocial problems experienced by DSD children and their families. Access to psychosocial counselling must also be guaranteed. That is often missing today. Finally, I would like to refer to the reference in the resolution to umbrella organisations. During the hearings we have heard several times that intersex does not belong under the lgbt name. Here we express the hope that the umbrella organisations do not understand the lgbt associations, but the associations that specifically focus on help and advice for DSD children and their parents. This particularly social and humane resolution, with attention to the freedoms and rights of DSD children, enjoys the full support of the Flemish Interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is also crucial for our group that every human being should feel good about his or her skin. In individuals with intersex variation, this is not the case for everyone, because their body does not exactly correspond to the prevailing norm of what a male or female body should look like. As a baby or young child, they are often forced to have a single sex, while the procedures are often not medically necessary and can even cause irreversible damage, such as infertility. This can later saddle the children with a long series of very painful interventions, far into puberty. These decisions are usually made with the best of intentions, as we have heard. There is mainly a problem of awareness in parents and doctors. Unfortunately, unknown is still too often unloved. Last week, a survey showed that only one in three Flemings know what intersex means, while every day four or five children are born in our country with a variation in gender characteristics. About 80 children per year are subject to variations with a very heavy impact. I will not repeat what Mr Rigot has already explained perfectly, with regard to the recommendations we make together. For my group, it was particularly crucial that the decision-making power of intersex children was strengthened. My approved amendment calls for the consent of the minor to be the rule. Even if there is a medical need, the judgement of the minor must be checked, for example, by a child and youth psychiatrist or psychologist. Madam President, I would also like to take note of the fact that the word'serious' was removed in my amendment in the logic of the text. The secretariat of the committee made me have to mention that again here today, so that the Registry can act accordingly. This was done in conjunction with the colleagues. If the minor is competent in judgment, he or she shall have a say in the decision to adapt the sex characteristics. If a minor does not give his consent, it is quite clear to us that the operation cannot be carried out. This amendment cannot abuse an appropriate exception to the medical need to undermine the rights of the minor with a variation in gender characteristics. The child's well-being must always be at the heart of the matter. The resolution is the result of extensive parliamentary work. Former Minister of Equal Opportunities Muylle has given the start with a colloquium and the brochure Inner Outside. We have continued this work in Parliament: there have been a lot of hearings with experts, associations and experience experts. That was very extensive. With the resolution we are taking a very positive step which is important for intersexuals and which has never been taken in Parliament. I hope that this work will continue in Parliament, but in particular by Secretary of State Schlitz in the government, so that we can come to the protection of intersexual persons, particularly intersexual minors. Thank you very much for your cooperation. We have found unanimity on this, and that is a very important signal from Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we too will support this resolution. Indeed, our country is currently failing to adequately protect intersexuals. The testimonies we heard during the hearing were therefore very poignant. It is therefore crystal clear to us that there must be an urgent ban on cosmetic surgical interventions in minors, at least until they are of age and are able to give their consent freely and intelligibly. At the same time, it is clear that psychosocial support for intersexuals and their families is urgently needed. Although the resolution calls for this, I note that it has been somewhat watered down by means of amendments, so that there is no explicit call for adequate funding for this. We regret that. Nevertheless, if the government implements it, of course, the resolution represents a real step forward for the rights of intersexuals. We therefore support the requests in the resolution and will support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a great deal of confusion about what intersex people actually are. Moreover, Mr Rigot has also explained this clearly: a fundamental lack of figures on the number of cases in our country, on the number of interventions, on the social position they take, on the living situation and, above all, on the stigma-experiences of persons with a DSD condition and their families. Also, there is not always transparency in the care path. For us, the hearings and discussions with experts have shown very clearly that intersex children can very often go through life perfectly healthy without the need for surgery. Unfortunately, to this day, Belgium is guilty of performing non-necessary and, above all, irreversible medical interventions in babies or young children with intersex characteristics, without these babies or young children being involved and often, mostly, without psychosocial support. The choice of whether or not to operate is made very often or always by the doctor and discussed with the parents. That doctor gets such a situation presented by the low number of cases, perhaps once or twice in his entire career. This means that the doctor does not always have the necessary know-how to make a good decision. Knowledge of children born with intersex characteristics is hugely fragmented. If a family comes to a doctor with a child, this situation is not always optimal. Moreover, in many cases the necessary psychosocial assistance and the related care pathway are lacking. In addition, the child also needs recognition, which is often lacking in its own environment. For us, this is not only a legal issue, but also a health issue. Again, most of those kids can go through life perfectly healthy. Members of the PS and Ecolo Green have tabled resolutions and we have learned a great deal from the hearings in this regard. After that, we continued to talk with our group with the experts. That is why we believe that all these expertises should be brought together first. We must ensure that expertise is no longer fragmented. That is why we have tabled another legislative proposal, in which we are very clearly in favour of bringing together expertise. We want to provide two reference centres or centres of expertise in our country, where all the expertise the families and their children need is brought together. In addition to our legislative proposal, we have also tabled an amendment to Mr Rigot's resolution to that effect. I would like to thank everyone for their very constructive cooperation on this issue. Due to the low number of people involved, the problem is often hidden, but it is very important for those involved. That is why I would like to thank my fellow Members for their excellent cooperation. I hope that the resolution, as it was at the committee meeting, can also be adopted unanimously in this plenary session today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u74	Madam President, we will obviously support this motion for a resolution, which calls on the government to put in place, in collaboration with the associations representing the persons concerned and the medical community, a legislative framework protecting the physical integrity of intersex minors, by guaranteeing – unless medical necessity and emergency situations make it impossible to delay the decision – the prohibition of any decision to change the sexual characteristics of a minor without the informed consent of the minor. The aim is therefore to take the time before decisions with irreversible consequences are taken. It is important that this time be used as efficiently as possible and that it be a real journey for parents and the child, in order to provide them with quality information and support. Hearings have shown the need to better accompany parents when they learn that their child has variations in sexual characteristics, as they are often completely lost and need information. The person who informs them will have an essential role. It is therefore important to ensure that this information is of high quality and has several dimensions (social, medical and peer support). It will also be necessary to ensure that children benefit from this information and support throughout their childhood and adolescence. As several speakers pointed out during the hearings, the establishment of a few centres of expertise is a means of providing quality support to the child concerned and his or her parents. Not only medical, but also social support, with information on the situation of intersex persons, as well as exchanges and collaborations between these different centres of expertise. We will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution and we thank the sponsors for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the authors of this motion for a resolution which highlights a disturbing truth, a truly taboo problem as it affects the physical and moral integrity of children. This problem relates to non-vital surgical operations carried out on intersex minors, i.e. minors who naturally show variations in their sexual characteristics, and who do not correspond to the categories resulting from the binary conception of sex defined by our society. As the motion for a resolution under consideration rightly points out, this binary concept gives rise to a normalizing pressure, which means that very often, as a result of pressure exerted largely by doctors, babies or young intersex children are operated until their sexual characteristics end up being totally either female or male. Hormone injections, clitoridosplatia, vaginoplastia, or testicular gonad blemishes are thus imposed, without the child concerned being able to consent to it or not in an enlightened manner, without being able to express himself or herself about his or her gender identity. However, patient consent is the cornerstone of our right and, in particular, of the law on patient rights. The same must be true of minors. Moreover, article 12 of the Act stipulates very precisely that this right to freely consent to any intervention by the professional practitioner, with prior information, may be exercised autonomously by the minor patient who may be considered fit to reasonably assess his or her interests. This is all the more fundamental since these operations and treatments will have a considerable impact on the entire life of the child-individual from both a psychological and a physical point of view, since many of them are irreversible. Such attacks on physical integrity that can objectively be regarded as genuine mutilation are such that, except for serious medical circumstances, they must be strictly prohibited. Still today, some doctors advocate these operations, considering them inevitable. However, it is widely recognized that intersexuality has no effect on health. On the other hand, standardisation procedures do have a negative impact on life expectancy. Medically, therefore, there is no justification for using surgeries or other heavy treatments, let alone when imposed on young children. When they are not chosen, these treatments, which are sometimes given over more than ten years, have a significant psychological impact on the intersex individuals who undergo them. For example, there have been numerous reports of a sense of anomalousness or exclusion from society. It is also testimony that has been brought to light through the hearings we have had in the Committee on Health. But I am also thinking of another testimony, Camille's testimony, which was published in the French press in 2017. At 38 years of age, Camille decided to file a complaint against X. Intersex, he was assigned the male sex at birth, with a concern, again, of normalization. From the age of 9 months, up to the age of 8, Camille underwent no less than seven painful operations. He was also given several heavy treatments, including multiple injections of testosterone to virile his baby's body. Today Camille still feels the pain of all these operations. He has repeatedly tried to be treated by prominent surgeons. All refused to operate, for fear of after-effects that would eventually be even more serious and painful. The doctors' answer is without appeal: we cannot undo what has been done. Some might think that this problem is minor; that this testimony, however hard it may be, is ultimately anecdotal. Unfortunately, this is not the case. The figures of the United Nations speak for themselves, namely that one in sixty babies would be involved; that in Belgium this would involve five births a day, a very approximate total today of 192,000 people. For all these reasons, my group, as you will have understood, will support this motion for a resolution, while insisting that this is only a first step towards the effective protection of the physical and moral integrity of intersex persons. I am also pleased that the proposal finally sees the intersexuality of minors as a global issue, calling for responses from the federal government, as well as from federated entities in the areas of prevention, education and awareness-raising. When it comes to responding to the recommendations of the Council of Europe and the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child, but also to the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, which rightly insists that the views of the child be taken into account in all decisions affecting him or her, it goes without saying that the different levels of power, but also the different parties represented in this Assembly, must be able to work together. We seem to have understood this through this fine unanimity which emerged in committee. I therefore hope that we will find her later in the vote. It would be an opportunity to recall that the hospital is there to treat and not to mutilate, but it would also be the translation of our commitment to protect our children, their bodies, their privacy, their vulnerability.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u76	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u77	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u78	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as requested by the plenary, the committee has just examined the four amendments still tabled to the draft law on various provisions on justice. The government had tabled an amendment to this draft at its plenary session on 28 January, which concerns the provisions relating to the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The amendment, as confirmed by the Council of State in a new opinion of 5 February, which was again requested by the opposition at that plenary session on 28 January, responds to its comments. The amendments tabled by the N-VA Group were therefore rejected. It was four, one of which was withdrawn. The whole and the government's amendment were adopted by 11 votes in favour, 3 against by the N-VA Group and 2 abstentions by the Flemish Interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u80	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the initial text of this draft law was very comprehensive. Compared to the original text, what is ahead of us is greatly diminished. The Minister has deleted a number of chapters, taking into account the heavy criticism of the Council of State and the urgency. A number of other chapters have disappeared from the text because other initiatives have been adopted in Parliament. Three chapters remain from the original text: the European Public Prosecutor's Office, provisions on the reduction and redistribution of the workload within the judicial system and the transposition of the Directive on the fight against fraud in criminal matters affecting the financial interests of the Union. Two further chapters were added afterwards, one chapter relating to an amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure and another concerning the amendment of the Extradition Act. As far as the broad lines are concerned, our group has absolutely no comments on Chapters 3, 4, 5 and 6. Otherwise, it will be the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Our group in the European Parliament has opposed a European Public Prosecutor's Office and will continue to do so consistently here at national level. The fact that the European Public Prosecutor's Office has compulsory national investigative capacity means that the competence of the European Public Prosecutor's Office can de facto take precedence over national jurisdiction. This is unacceptable to our group. The difference with the current method is very large. Today, the Belgian Public Prosecutor's Office, together with the special investigation services, the police, the Justice Department and sometimes with customs, makes a selection of cases on the basis of the opportunity and the agreed agreements. However, that is not the case with the European Public Prosecutor's Office. In theory, the European Public Prosecutor's Office can rely on the national investigative capacity, including justice, police and customs, only of course to the offences falling within the competence of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. That makes sense. It seems likely that the European Public Prosecutor's Office will also apply a form of selection, but who will carry out that selection, at what point in the process and according to what criteria remains fairly unclear. I understand that no clear, concrete agreements are being made with the European Public Prosecutor's Office on who in practice executes the selection, at what time in the process and what criteria are being used. However, that is of prime importance. After all, the pressures are often different in the different Member States of the European Union. This will also have an impact on the policy of persecution in our country. The lack of additional investigative and prosecution capacity to fulfil obligations vis-à-vis the European Public Prosecutor's Office will, we fear, be at the expense of other national investigations. We have therefore asked for guarantees that our country's participation in the European Public Prosecutor's Office will not be at the expense of national investigations by Justice. After all, one of the bottlenecks is that capacity is already very limited today. The question is therefore whether the Minister will have more people, resources and powers for Justice, Police and Customs following accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Colleagues, there is indeed serious fraud with European money in practice, which cannot be denied. Our group considers this absolutely unacceptable, and I want to make no mistake about it. However, in order to create yet another new European institution with a chief prosecutor, two deputies and 22 prosecutors, that is a bridge too far for us. We are opposed to the creation of yet another European institution. We are not alone in this, because only 22 European Member States are involved in this. A significant number of Member States do not. These countries believe that justice belongs to the sovereignty of the Member States and that the rules are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. They're right, of course. The fact that fraud involving European money is too common and is indeed not properly dealt with in a number of countries does not mean that we need to create yet another European institution, which gives us some control. In principle, our objection is that the investigative power belongs to the Belgian Public Prosecutor's Office and that it should now be shared with Europe, with the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and this is totally punished, the European Public Prosecutor's Office can have a right of priority. In fact, we are losing some of the democratic control. We cannot agree to that. Once again, justice must remain an exclusive matter for the Member States. Minister, I have also stressed in committee that fraud needs to be dealt with rigorously and firmly, but through cooperation, not by more Europe, not by additional institutions, and certainly not by increasing the powers of the Member States. As far as the fight against crime and fraud is concerned, we must work towards intergovernmental cooperation and there must be no European dictatorship. Fraud which harms financial interests, whether national, European or international, must be combated by criminal law. I fully agree with that principle, but here in our country, by the Belgian courts, sometimes internationally, but I repeat it by means of intergovernmental agreements. Another question is how the scheme will be implemented in practice. How will you handle it? Indeed, the figures show that there are serious deficits in the area of justice staff today. On the parquets there is even an empty house. As a result of the discussion in committee, Minister, I referred to a fairly recent book by, among other things, the Mechelen investigating judge Byl, Financial Detectives, in which the lack of people and resources is indicted in a particularly serious way, which makes it difficult to talk about financial investigations into the spoils and money of criminals. It was rightly stated in the press comments, more specifically in De Tijd, that the list of what goes wrong in the case of the Justice Department in investigations into criminal assets is unheard of. I quote: 'Even for financial investigations with major interests, in practice, hardly any special detection methods can be used because of a lack of people and resources'. This is, of course, about researchers with financial expertise. Instead of putting resources and resources into the operation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, I would like once again to ask you clearly what initiatives you will take to meet this. The appointment of only seven additional investigators will not be sufficient. Again, more people and more resources, that is much needed. Then there's another question. Where are you going to find these additional magistrates? Mr Minister, I will not repeat them, but I will return to the detailed and interesting discussion during the discussion of the policy statement and the budget, on which the issue has been discussed in detail. I have no doubt that you will find enough candidates within the magistrate to wish to perform that function as investigating judge. After all, that can be a very interesting task. However, other places shall, where appropriate, be vacant within the magistrate to be filled. I'm afraid you won't find enough candidates for that. Colleagues, the creation of a European Public Prosecutor's Office cannot and will not support our group. We have just had the opportunity in the Committee on Justice to discuss the amendments tabled by the members of the N-VA. I must admit that we were able to approve them, which is also reflected in our voting behaviour. After all, Minister, if you want to implement this European institution, this must be done properly and correctly, especially in the area of language legislation. The concerns in this area were also justified. The European Delegated Prosecutors must also comply with the language requirements laid down in our Judicial Code for the European Prosecutor himself. They must also have a certificate proving the knowledge of the language other than the language on their diploma. This should also apply to the PIF customs officer, when he or she brings a criminal action and continues in the courts with a French or Dutch language role. In that case too, it goes without saying that the official concerned has sufficient knowledge of the language other than the language on his diploma. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, unfortunately you did not want to see this and the amendments tabled by the N-VA members were voted down. The voting behaviour of the N-VA for this bill also surprises me somewhat. The vote is motivated solely by the fact that its amendments have not been adopted. These are small amendments within a very large whole. However, the N-VA in the European Parliament was a great advocate of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Minister, as far as the other chapters are concerned, we fully support you. Your plan to reduce and redistribute the workload of the court can be accepted, however limited it may be, and I think we agree. However, I dare to insist once again that I will continue to do so with the regularity of the clock in order to increase the acceleration in the full digitisation of the court and to take more initiatives in this respect, coupled, of course, with the release of the necessary resources. We had a very interesting discussion on this yesterday during the discussion in the Committee on Justice, but unfortunately it was limited to the digital inspection of criminal records. However, I do not have to convince you that full digitisation of justice goes much further. I will keep a close eye on the evolution of this and remind you of this with the regularity of the clock. I do have some questions about the seriousness of the comments on the regulatory impact analysis. These questions are not enough to reject the draft, but when it is said that this will have a positive impact on the fight against poverty, I ask serious questions. The draft is very positive for clerks, attorneys and the judge who does not call upon a counsellor, but represents his own interests. Unfortunately, the many people who live in poverty are also mostly digitally illiterate and they will not benefit from this, as far as they will defend themselves. I share the same view of the alleged positive impact on equal opportunities and social cohesion. That also escapes me. It seems to me to be rather a poorly worked-out example. The draft should also have a positive impact on employment. I have already referred to the appointment of seven specialised investigators and at least one customs officer to assist the European Delegated Prosecutor. That is true, but at the same time I would like to refer to the issue of staffing within the magistrate, so the draft will not have a very positive impact on employment. Finally, the RIA states that there is no impact on the investments. This is also wrong and contradicts the argument of the positive impact on employment. The recruitment of new investigators, for example, is rightly linked to a certain price tag, but they also need to be supported with the necessary sophisticated infrastructure if they are to carry out their mission properly. I would like to emphasise these comments on the regulatory analysis in plenary because the RIA can be a very interesting instrument. Then it must be handled in a serious way and it must not be a gratuitous document. Unfortunately, that is the broad thrust of this draft law. A more severe punishment for bribery of people in public office can, of course, also be welcomed, even if this is the transposition of a European directive. We are in most cases only cool lovers, but in this case it is positive. People in public office have an exemplary role. Any form of bribery, passive or active, must be severely punished. Therefore, the penalties that are included in the Criminal Code today will rightly be greatly increased. False statements relating to grants, allowances and allowances are also unacceptable and need to be addressed severely. We will and can support you in this too. There are several positive points, unfortunately this is not the case for participation in the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Justice must remain an exclusive competence of the Member States, not of Europe. To give Europe more power again is unacceptable to the Flemish interest. That is why we cannot possibly support this bill. As the other aspects of this draft law are fully in favour and support, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u81	Madam Chair, I will be very brief on this very technical bill. Nevertheless, I would like to highlight two points. First of all, we can welcome the implementation of enhanced European cooperation on the creation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and the strengthening of the fight against fraud. Secondly, I am glad that you took advantage of this draft to table your amendment. In particular, it follows on from a question I had addressed to you three weeks ago concerning a dispute between the clerks and prosecutors as to who should issue copies of the files closed without further action. This conflict had led to a refusal by both parties to issue such copies of which neither the lawyers nor the parties could therefore dispose. You said you would settle the problem by legislation. It's done through this project and I'm happy about it. In my reply to this question, however, I told you that putting it in writing in a text was important, but that we also had to add the means to be able to deliver these copies, since that is what is blocking for the moment, even though I know that digitisation and other processes can of course alleviate the tasks. Nevertheless, it is true that resources will have to be allocated, in particular to the registries, in order to be able to proceed with this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u82	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, if I have not been able to speak on this bill in committee, I am doing so here. This project introduces a series of provisions aimed at implementing the so-called European regulation on the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as the European Directive on combating fraud affecting the European Union's financial interests. Finally, we are leading to this project, which germinated more than twenty years ago. As we know, the rule of law is a founding value of the European Union. Nevertheless, it remains extremely fragile, as is evident from the situation in some European countries, such as Hungary or Poland, which, I sincerely regret, did not want to take part in this enhanced cooperation on the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Crimes against the European Union's financial interests, such as fraud or corruption, constitute a real danger that must be combated, because beyond the symbolic and political lines underlying the creation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, the crimes that affect the European Union's budget endanger its very existence. If it is amputated with part of its budget, it will not be able to effectively carry out its missions or adequately fund all its programmes. The creation of a European Public Prosecutor's Office specifically investigating and prosecuting these cross-border cases was therefore obvious. And at the very heart of this project is the question of our sovereignty, since criminal law remains the competence of each Member State of the European Union. Nevertheless, the loss of the exclusive power to investigate and prosecute these crimes will be filled by greater protection of the interests of the European Union and, ultimately, of our national interests, because we are an integral part of this common area. The European Public Prosecutor's Office is therefore an undeniable step forward in the process of integration of the European Union to which my party has always subscribed. But this fundamental progress can only be achieved through tangible actions. The European Public Prosecutor's Office should start dealing with criminal cases from spring 2021 and, more specifically, from 1 March. To achieve its ambition of processing 3,000 cases for this year alone, 140 delegated prosecutors must be appointed. Today, only 18 delegated prosecutors have been appointed. That is why, on 2 December last year, the European Commission urged the Member States (including Belgium) to appoint their delegated prosecutors as soon as possible. That is what led me, Minister, on December 9, to question you about the delay in our appointments. It emerged from this that Belgium had undertaken to make available to the European Public Prosecutor's Office two full-time delegated prosecutors and that the call for applications should have been launched in the course of December. It must be noted that, to the best of my knowledge, these delegated prosecutors are still not appointed. Less than a month before this European Public Prosecutor's Office actually takes office, Mr Minister, I would like to call on your Government to honour its commitments in this area. It is true that in order for the European Public Prosecutor's Office to carry out all its tasks, it is not only Belgium but the 22 Member States of the project that must designate their delegated prosecutors respectively. However, we cannot wait for others to move to fulfil our own obligations. The European Public Prosecutor's Office must also have sufficient resources – Mrs Matz has just referred to it – to carry out the tasks entrusted to it, which still does not seem to have been achieved, particularly in view of the warning signal launched by the Prosecutor General of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, Laura Kövesi, a few months ago. I would add that the European Commissioner for Justice, Mr Reynders, said last November that an increase in the budget of EUR 37 million was not impossible. I'm glad. In this regard, I strongly encourage the Government to support Mrs Kövesi's call for an additional EUR 18 million to be allocated to this project to ensure the effective handling of the mass of cases which she will then have to deal with. In conclusion, colleagues, our group will support this bill. However, we will remain extremely vigilant about the criteria for appointing prosecutors. The European Public Prosecutor's Office is impartial and therefore able to carry out its important tasks properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u83	Madam President, I would like to thank Mr van Vlaams Belang for her comprehensive explanation, which also gives me the opportunity to briefly explain our position and our voting position. We are opposed to this government bill, not because we are opposed to a harmonised approach to combating fraud by European means, but because we have questions about how this directive is transposed into national law. We are talking mainly about the language aspect. We have raised this linguistic aspect through a number of amendments in committee. For us, it is not logical or consistent that the European Delegated Prosecutor should not be subjected to the same functional bilingualism as the European Prosecutor. In addition, it is not logical that the customs officer who is appointed should not have that functional bilingualism. These are people who will have to be active throughout the territory, regardless of whether they are present. They will have to carry out research throughout the territory and functional bilingualism will be a minimum. We put these questions to the Minister in committee and he did not want to take that into account. He also replied that only one customs officer would initially be appointed. That is even less reassuring, because then it is even more important that he has a functional bilingualism. This is not just a matter of N-VA being more language sensitive than other parties, it is a matter of public order. Language law in court cases is punishable by nullity and the customs officer also acts as an officer of judicial police in these cases. So we're getting to public order here. That is a very fundamental point for us and we regret that the majority could not accept our amendments. In addition, we wonder whether the creation of the PIF customs officer is compatible with the PIF regulation is more fundamental. This has also been addressed in the questions we received from the Council of State in connection with the request for an opinion. The criminal proceedings are carried out by the European Public Prosecutor's Office and the PIF customs officer is not one of them. The legislation will be adopted today, but I would not be surprised if a smart lawyer would notice that in a fairly near future. I hope that the Minister will take note of this and take it into account. We shall therefore vote against, because we do not believe that the directive is fully transposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u84	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u85	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1696/17) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1696/17) The bill has 30 articles. The draft law has 30 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u86	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u87	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Séverine de Laveleye, Mélissa Hanus, Christophe Bombled, Leen Dierick, Jasper Pillen, Kris Verduyckt, Barbara Creemers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u88	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1225/6) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1225/6) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u89	The rapporteur, Mrs Dierick, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the new political culture of the purple-green club vis-à-vis the opposition amounts to the systematic voting of opposition texts, so that they can then be replaced by similar but completely eroded versions. What stands out, or just not, depending on how one looks at it, is that Ecolo-Green excels in it as the party that has turned into a very traditional power party at an almost unseen pace. Just a few weeks ago, we saw here how the PVDA resolution on deep-sea mining was voted down and replaced by a majority text, then on the initiative of the Greens, in which the government is very symbolically committed to developing, if necessary, a regulatory framework. Then our resolution to combat the illegal import of brousse meat was also voted off, and only a week later, a very symbolic majority text, at that time on the initiative of Ecolo, was unbearably adopted. Symbolically, because most of the requests made by the government to themselves are such that nowadays..... have already been carried out or have been put into the scaffolding by the administration even before this government was formed. In the text that is ultimately before us today, hardly a single word is the same as in the original resolution of Ecolo-Green. After all, the text had to be completely rewritten in order to respond to the criticisms made in the opinions, which were significantly more favourable to our text. The latter should not be surprised, because our text called for concrete measures rather than sticking to symbolism. Let me give you an example. It was the WWF, however, an authority when it comes to these matters, which literally says about the N-VA text, and I quote: 'The WWF believes that the resolution deals with the main improvements that Belgian authorities and the private sector must make to prevent imports of brousse meat.' So that's what our text says, according to the WWF. The amendments that we then proposed in committee to make the text of Ecolo somewhat more concrete, first on the original text and then on the stripped-up version that is on the table today, were swept off the table by the whole majority. That is strange because our amendments were mainly about a translation of action points, which were already requested in the report of the major research at Zaventem airport under the supervision of the Public Health Office, on which the wider debate was then based on a study day by several services involved in December 2019. That was one of our amendments that was wiped clean. We also asked in the amendments to the text before us today for the strengthening of controls during the peak hour of arrivals from the countries at risk. This can be achieved relatively simply by avoiding that those arrivals coincide with the shift change and peak hour. The systematic sanctioning of any import of illegal or uncertified meat, so that a DNA test does not have to be carried out every time, was something we submitted. This made our resolution very concrete, but it was also voted down smoothly. I would nevertheless like to give some examples of the symbolic nature of what is before us today. A national action plan is requested, together with the Task Force, to be developed. That is symbolic, because it has already been achieved. It is bizarre to call for cooperation which is already in place, but which has even been communicated. Concrete steps have already been taken in this cooperation and the National Action Plan has been announced by September 2021. That's another thing we don't just say. This can also be read in the various opinions, including those of the FPS Public Health and the FPS Finance. Calls for data collection at European level are a request from the text before us today. This too has been largely achieved. The question that more data would also be collected in Europe has been explicitly raised by Belgium at European level. This is explicitly stated by the FPS Public Health. They even put a date on it. In June 2020, Belgium called on the European Commission to take action against the problem of illegal imports of wild animal meat, including the demand for more monitoring. According to the Public Health Office, even several countries have already joined this demand, such as Austria, Denmark, France and Lithuania. This is also reflected in the conclusions of the Environment Council of October 2020 on biodiversity, according to the FPS. Everyone knows that repetition works, but if that's all it takes, it's thin. The text before us states that the services concerned shall, where appropriate, be given more resources, provided that the resources are available for this purpose. This addition to the resources available makes the request very symbolic in this case. The question of the study day and the recommendation from the various opinions is that there should be more resources. This text replies that this may, if necessary, be possible. In fact, the text implicitly says that nothing is added to what is already available. In fact, the request is in contrast to the justification in the text. This request also does not address the specific problem of the lack of control capacity during the arrival of several flights at risk, as it is therefore in line with the change in services. It is also bizarre to ask that all airlines flying to Belgium should join the international declaration, while only a few specific carriers fly to countries at risk. These are countries that are also indicated and mentioned in the report of the Public Health Office. I have the impression that there is a fear of naming the problem and that it is therefore stuck in vague terms and solutions which do not make sense. I am therefore not surprised that a criticism of our text was that it would be too stigmatizing for the African and Asian continent. When the report of the FPS Public Health specifically refers to very concrete countries, it is fine, but if it comes into a text of the N-VA, it becomes stigmatizing. If one cannot even call man and horse in a serene, business-based manner, then the discussion will of course end. The conclusion is that what is here is not wrong but, with all due respect, it will have a 0.0 impact. It will not improve biodiversity in the countries of origin and will not have a positive impact on public health. The only merit of this text and of the previous passage in committee is that they once again prove that the so-called new policy of this club is one big joke. If the intention was to land very proudly here in plenary today with a text including only Vivaldi signatures, then you have succeeded with great success. Let us then agree not to talk about this new political culture in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u91	Madam Chair, I am not going to take too much of my time to respond to the frustrations expressed by the N-VA. I'm just going to remind you of one or two small things that I think it's necessary to say now. The Ecolo-Groen text is the first to have come back to this issue. It dates from May 2020. So when we are told that we have quickly replaced it with a new text, that is not true! We were the first to present a text in Parliament's proceedings. The N-VA did its work later as well as the sp.a. It is understood that the text of the N-VA was better than the text of Ecolo-Groen. There were three texts. At one point, a very precise analysis of the various texts on the table was made. They start from the same findings, from the same studies done by the same experts and have incredibly similar demands. It is true that we received opinions from the various SPFs and civil society, specifically WWF, which made proposals for improvement. Why? Because our text dated from May and the opinions were requested in the fall. Yes, a lot has been done, notably by the Public Health FPS, which has been working on these themes for years. This one has moved forward. He did not wait for Parliament to move forward, and we can be happy about it rather than to denounce it today in a somewhat capricious way. New things have indeed been put on the table. We have incorporated them into our text and this text has thus obtained the majority in Parliament, thanks to amendments that have been made by the various parliamentary groups present today. I will now focus on what is being asked of the government and look at the substance of it rather than ergotting. We are actually coming today with a text that calls on the government to fight effectively against the illegal trade in wild meat. What are we talking about specifically when we talk about illegal trade? This is in fact little known to the general public and yet, according to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, illegal trade in wildlife is recognized as a specialized field of organized crime. It is estimated that the amounts generated by this trafficking amount to tens of billions of dollars a year and that it is therefore ranked first in terms of profits generated after trafficking in human beings, arms and drugs. At European and Belgian level, there are no official figures on the sale and consumption of wild meat. Studies have estimated that tens of tonnes of meat are smuggled into the EU each year by passengers. A study conducted by a research team and the SPF Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment estimates that the illegal importation of meat is close to 44 000 kg each year, and only via Brussels National Airport. We must therefore take into account the other routes of entry into our territory. It is not surprising that this text is coming to the House today. Indeed, although this phenomenon is already old, several elements have made it possible for three groups to bring this subject to Parliament: the N-VA, the sp.a and the Ecolo-Groen have all proposed a text. The first element is the important work carried out by civil society and our administrative experts. They are doing important advocacy, advocacy and documentation to bring these issues to the attention of public opinion and Parliament. The second is of course the pandemic context. The health crisis has violently confronted us with issues related to zoonoses, diseases that are transmitted from animals to humans and vice versa. The illegal importation of wild meat poses a specific health risk. Today we estimate that 60% of infectious diseases and 75% of emerging diseases described in humans are of animal origin. Direct exposure to an animal or derivative presents a risk of zoonosis transmission. These risks are linked to intensive breeding but also to the consumption of wild animals, which has exploded in recent years with the intensification of hunting and breeding. This illegal trade presents another major challenge, namely the preservation of biodiversity. Indeed, we live in a context of sixth mass extinction. It is estimated that one million species are at risk of extinction. Trade in wildlife contributes to the overexploitation of species in nature and the extinction of several species. Furthermore, trade in exotic animals – whether wild or in captivity – can facilitate the transmission of pathogens that have a harmful effect on wildlife itself. This promotes the development of diseases that affect either the fauna or the flora of other endemic species. The stakes are therefore multiple. Trade in wildlife can contribute to the overexploitation of species in nature, disrupt ecosystem balance and affect the services provided by nature to the population and its health. We are faced with a fairly typical challenge of illustrating the one world concept, one health, which shows that human health, animal health and the environment are only one thing, that these three levels of health are interdependent and that we must take care of them in the same way. However, the relevant actors show the difficulties encountered in the effective fight against illegal trade. The first of these difficulties is the lack of data. It is very difficult to know today what the scale of trafficking is at European or Belgian level and, in ignorance, it is difficult to carry out useful policies. The second issue is that we are faced with somewhat scattered legislation. Some wild animals fall under very specific legislation, CITES legislation, on endangered animals. Some wild animals are not endangered but are protected in the countries of origin but not in our home. Still others are not protected but are imported illegally because they are not properly notified to customs systems. The legislation is such that today, for some animals, in case of illegal importation, only these packages can be destroyed, but there are no plans to impose fines. However, it is known that proportionate and well-thought-out fines can be dissuasive for this type of illegal trade. A third issue is the fact that several control bodies are competent: Customs, AFSCA for animal health and the FPS Species Inspection Service Public Health for CITES species. Strengthening coordination between these bodies is important and this has been recognized by the various entities that have been interviewed. A fourth challenge is the lack of financial and scientific resources to combat this trade effectively. Finally, a final issue is the understanding of the issues by travellers. This phenomenon remains relatively unknown and it is necessary to increase the information and awareness of travellers by involving all actors: airlines, airports or ports. Faced with these challenges, in recent months, our administration has not been left to wait. Following a colloquium held at the end of 2019, the Environment DG set up a Sustainable Wildlife Trade National Task Force in September 2020, whose mission is to advance on the issues I have just mentioned. Through this motion for a resolution, we call on the government to draw up, together with the national task force, a national action plan to combat the illegal trade in wild meat, in particular to better document these issues, clarify the roles of the various competent bodies, ensure that they have the means to carry out their tasks and increase the awareness of travellers. I will not go back to all the requests, you have the text. The motion for a resolution also calls for a call at European level for countries which are the main routes of entry to be given sufficient resources. Addressing only this problem at national level lacks comprehensiveness because trade takes place at European level. Madam President, I would like to pay tribute to the work of civil society, in particular the WWF, as well as the work of the administrations. We have received their opinions on this text and they have clearly contributed to enriching the work. I thank them for that. I will conclude by thanking colleagues who have joined us by co-signing our text, as well as all those who have helped to bring it to fruition through concerted work on the amendments. So it was an excellent parliamentary work. I am pleased that this text can be completed today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u92	Madam President, I would like to begin by endorsing what my colleague from Ecolo said about form, because it is a quality text that is before us today. So I suggest that you focus on the substance. Ladies and gentlemen, when we know that 44 400 kilos of bushmeat pass through Brussels Airport every year, while the European Union does ban this meat on its territory because it can contain pathogens and pose risks to human health, it is clear that government measures must be taken in terms of animal welfare and the fight against bushmeat trafficking. This policy is all the more necessary as the number of wild animals worldwide declines due to the destruction of their habitat and unsustainable hunting. As I have already had the opportunity to remind you in committee, the last "living planet" report of the WWF indicates that the vertebrate population has declined by 60% since 1970. Hunting and consumption of bushmeat potentially lead to local extinction of wild animals and contribute to the emptying of African forests and savannahs. As a result, the ecosystem is weakened and becomes less resilient to external pressures such as climate change. Genetic tests carried out during seizures at Brussels Airport show that 55% of bushmeat comes from domestic meat – cattle, goats or pigs – while 38% comes from protected species – pangolins, baboons, antelope, pythons, crocodiles or varans – while 6% did not produce results. Furthermore, should we recall that illegal trade in wild animals and plants is one of the ten most profitable cross-border criminal sectors in the world, along with drugs, weapons, counterfeiting and trafficking in human beings? It is in particular in this sense that my group has included an item in our motion for a resolution aimed at preserving our biodiversity and preventing the emergence of pandemics. Through this text, we call on the federal government to commit itself – both at national, European and international level – to, among other things, putting an end to the illegal or uncontrolled trade in bushmeat. Therefore, I am pleased that we were able to agree on a text specifically dedicated to that end. This text responds, in particular, through a series of amendments which we have co-signed following the opinions received from stakeholders in the sector, to the objective of preserving health security and biodiversity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u93	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank Minister Khattabi for her presence. I do not know whether she is here as a representative of the government or to encourage her party mate, Mrs de Laveleye. I would also like to thank Mrs de Laveleye, because she thanked all those who contributed constructively to this motion for a resolution. After all, I made you aware that you had to update your first version properly. Mr Raskin has already told us this in smells and colors. The problem of illegal imports and trade of meat and meat products, including the so-called bushmeat, is also of concern to our group. It is indeed part of an absolutely counter-destructive approach to nature and biodiversity. Madam Minister, I pointed this out in my speech in plenary on your policy paper. There is also a link with the increasing trend of a number of zoonotic infectious diseases. The proposal for a resolution had a rather long history in the committee responsible. The chairman of the committee, Mr Dewael, may take the floor. There were several proposals initially on the table. There was a proposal from N-VA colleague Gijbels, and there was the original version of the proposal from Mr Creemers and Mr de Laveleye, which we are discussing here today, but Mrs Hanus and Mr Verduyckt had also tabled a proposal. It was striking that they were all written prior to the conclusion of the coalition agreement. In fact, Mrs Khattabi's coalition agreement and policy paper contain a number of questions that were asked for by the government in the original version of the text. Fortunately, all initiators were willing to request written advice from the competent administrations and agencies. These opinions showed that, as I have just emphasised, it was really necessary to update the various proposals. Mr Raskin made a list of them today and listed them. Mrs de Laveleye was also a sensible lady and was prepared to amend her motion for a resolution, which had meanwhile become a proposal of the global majority. Colleagues, the National Task Force "Sustainable Wildlife Trade" exists and has already begun its work. Of course, more emphasis had to be placed on the necessary European coordination and European financial input. There are several European airports and ports involved in this illegal trade. There was also a need for greater cooperation with private players, such as ports and airports. We are not very enthusiastic about a common framework with minimum sanctions. It may be useful, of course, but should we wait for that, Mrs de Laveleye, knowing that the problem is certainly not particularly small in your beloved Brussels? Rather the opposite is true. I'll come back to that later. It is in any case awaiting the strategic objectives of the Task Force. The EESC welcomes the fact that the text highlights the importance of a concrete action plan with concrete objectives and implementation. However, let us not forget that the Inter-Ministerial Conference in question must set the common strategic objectives. We're here in Belgium. What's that thing called again? Cooperation federalism, and this will also be necessary for the implementation of the present motion for a resolution. Of course, it is also important for the government to come forward with additional resources. When such a motion of resolution is presented to the government, it seems logical to me that although in line with the budgetary arbitration on human and other resources at the BFSA, customs, the Public Health Office and so on, the matter should be given some priority. In the other case, we do continue to swim in symbolism. 'Maybe' does not mean much to us, especially the services concerned. The Flemish Interest Group continues to regret that the majority did not hear a number of amendments tabled by the N-VA members, which would make the matter even more concrete. Mrs Gijbels' proposal paid a great deal of attention to the extension of controls. It is indeed important for the government to provide sufficient airport staff at each time of the day to carry out the checks. The report on imports of brousse meat through Brussels Airport showed that this is not enough. We also do not understand why the majority did not want to follow Mr Raskin's argument. For us too, the powers of local officials who can determine illegal imports of animal products in air and sea ports should be extended. Finally, Mrs de Laveleye, I would like to test the theory against the practice. The chairman of my group asked a few months ago for figures on controls on the illegal trade in animals and plants. In 2019, only 115 minutes were prepared, but, remarkably, only 9 minutes in the Brussels-Capital Region. However, it is just in Brussels where the trade in bushmeat as well as consumption of bushmeat is thriving. Really, Mrs de Laveleye, come visit my rural village Zuienkerke in West Flanders. Thanks to our many farms there is a lot of meat consumed, but really no bushmeat. Nor is there any mention of the problem in the deep Kempen, Mr Daems. Nor is bushmeat served in the Alden Biesen farm, Mr Raskin. Mrs de Laveleye, I cannot help it either, but I am almost sure that the proportional shrinking indigenous population in Brussels, Flanders, Wallonia or in the German-speaking regions of this imperfect country consumes just a little less bushmeat than our fellow citizens with some affinity with the countries of origin of bushmeat, whom Mr Raskin described as risk countries. That is not stigmatisation, Mrs de Laveleye. What's the proverb again? The gustibus et coloribus non est disputandum, but a fact from reality. Bon appétit, I'd say. Mrs de Laveleye, you mentioned Mr Raskin frustrated. I also wish you well, however, in your search for more openness in your mind, because you will not believe it, and we will vote for this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for several years the MR has been calling for the establishment of a European mechanism to monitor illegal trade in wild meat. Indeed, the phenomenon is quite impressive. For example, every year more than 44 tonnes of bush meat from West and Central Africa pass through Brussels-National Airport. In this context, it is important to underline the essential role of the Customs Administration in combating the illegal importation of wild meat. The customs authorities have broad national powers ranging from the control of goods to the pursuit of illegal international trade. In addition to the Customs Administration, various authorities such as AFSCA or CITES are involved in organised actions to control illegal imports of food and species of protected plants and animals. For our group, it is interesting to explore ways to improve collaboration between the different authorities involved. That is why we welcome the establishment last September of the Sustainable Wildlife Trade Task Force, whose mandate is to propose strategic objectives in 2021 in order to ensure a sustainable trade in live and dead exotic animal species, including wild meat, at Belgian level. I would like to stress that the text of the resolution presented today is the result of effective work between the various groups of the majority. Indeed, the various opinions are taken into account and allow several essential elements to be included in a consolidated text advocating measures at both federal and European level, in particular the insistence that the European Union should provide the necessary budgets for the Member States where airports are considered to be the main routes of access for the importation of wild meat and animals and plants protected by the CITES Convention, so that these Member States can adequately manage the problem of bushmeat. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this resolution which is in the right direction in favour of regulating the trade in wild meat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u95	Colleagues, public health and biodiversity must be protected. It is clear that in the fight against wildlife trafficking there is a need for better enforcement, coordination and cooperation and that adequate resources should be provided for both customs and inspection services, as well as for police and justice. We therefore support the call for an effective national action plan and the other requests contained in the resolution which are in line with the recommendations of the WWF and the administrations. In committee, therefore, we supported all the amendments tabled by the majority, with the exception of one amendment. That amendment made conditional on the phrase 'to the extent that resources are available' being applied to the various inspection services. The resolution leaves the crucial aspect, the provision of sufficient resources, to the government. I therefore call on the government to take care of this. Provide sufficient resources and ensure that the resolution does not become a dead letter. The PVDA-PTB Group will therefore support the resolution, and we hope that the government will act quickly on a decisive action plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Corona is a Merde. In the meantime, everyone's tired of this health crisis. But sometimes, just sometimes, she helps a little. In this particular case, she helps us to push our noses on the facts. After all, this is not a new problem. For years, organisations such as the WWF have been calling for attention to be given to the problem, because this illegal hunting and trade that we are talking about here is indeed a problem for our biodiversity, for example. Mr Hanus put the emphasis on it just now. For many people, however, the problem was still too exotic. Corona has clearly changed that. In the meantime, there is a sense that unknown viruses can be devastating for social life. That was one of the reasons why at one point three resolutions on this issue appeared in Parliament. They were tabled by parties on all sides of the political spectrum, and that is a good thing, because it proves that Parliament as a whole is aware of the problem. The colleague of the N-VA wants to fight a little bit more about that. The sp.a has sacrificed its text at some point to clear the way for one clear message. That's what matters to me. For me, that goes far beyond the whim of new and old political culture. That's not what this is about for me. For me, it is really important for us in Parliament today to send a signal to the government that this is a serious matter and that it must do something about it. Colleagues, there really is a problem with that bushmeat. I asked a question about this a year ago to Minister De Croo at the time. He then indicated that customs checks but that this is done on a random basis. We all know that the odds of getting caught are equal to illegal behavior. Seems to be right here, too. Let me give you one example. In September or October of last year, customs carried out an action at the airport of Zaventem, with increased attention to travellers from Central and West Africa. 72 passengers were picked from the queue. Out of those 72 travelers, three of them were found to have illegal meat. It was about monkey meat and crocodile meat. There was even someone who felt it necessary to smuggle three dead porcupines into our country. In total, this action yielded 1,200 kg of brousse meat. We find 1,200 kg of illegal meat in the middle of a pandemic, which we know is linked to this kind of meat. This teaches me two things. First of all, this means that some people still don't realize what they're doing. It is therefore important not only for those people but for everyone in our society that we inform and raise awareness about this problem. Our society must turn away from this kind of meat because of the risks it entails and, of course, also to protect biodiversity in the countries of origin. A second important issue is the need to strengthen our customs and all relevant control services. Sensitising without control makes no sense. Because of its history, our country has good connections with the countries of origin of this kind of meat. In this case, it's bothering us. We must therefore assume our responsibilities by strengthening the services that are trying to bring this problem under control. I shall not go into the resolution, as Mrs de Laveleye has already talked about it in detail. I call on the government and all the ministers involved to really take this problem to heart and to intensify the fight against bushmeat. Our party will be very pleased with that. Parliament wants to send an important signal here today, and hopefully we will not let go of this fight soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we will obviously support this motion for a resolution. Trade in wildlife is a very lucrative trade, with extremely serious environmental, health and food impacts. The motion for a resolution proposes that the federal government develop, together with the competent public authorities, a national action plan to end the illegal trade in wild meat. This illegal trade is recognized as a specialized field of organized crime, according to the United Nations. It is a traffic that generates tens of billions of dollars a year. The hunting of wild animals and the consumption of their meat lead to the local extinction of several species of wild animals and harm biodiversity. But this not only disturbs the latter, it also disrupts the balance of ecosystems, and it harms global health. At a time when we are all fighting for environmental protection, action at this level is a good signal. Coordination at European level as well as continuous and multidisciplinary training of customs officers are necessary to combat this illegal trade. Moreover, a mechanism at European level would be a good thing to eradicate this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the issues of illegal trade in wild meat are as numerous as they are important. Some of my colleagues have referred to it. Food security, first of all, because this meat is offered for sale and consumed without any health control; the preservation of our biodiversity, of course, since some "fashion" species are endangered by wild poaching that is beyond any regulation; and then also customs and imports. In the light of these issues, it is easy to understand the usefulness of this motion for a resolution, which has also resulted in a great deal of unanimity in committee. Such unanimity should be self-evident in the midst of a pandemic. Today, the meat of antelope, kangaroo, crocodile or pangolin is the subject of real trafficking, without any health control. According to the WWF, no less than 44 tons of bush meat are seized each year at Zaventem Airport. My colleagues have already quoted this figure, but it seems to me very important to insist on it, because it is nauseating and because it highlights the full scale of this traffic. As Mrs de Laveleye rightly pointed out, these illegal businesses favour zoonoses, i.e. diseases that are transmitted from animals to humans and for which the transport, cutting and preparation of these dead animals are at real risk. They also promote poaching upstream, without any concern for preserving our ecosystems and biodiversity. For all these reasons, regulation and sanctions are more than necessary. Of course, it will be a cost. Controls don't go unchecked. We shall therefore have the task, ladies and gentlemen, of supporting customs in their missions or, in any case, of ensuring that the government acts accordingly. When we see the damage caused by this scourge to our economy, our health and our planet, it is here no more or less to protect our achievements and our future. The legal framework called for in this motion for a resolution will have to be accompanied by concrete, human and financial means to be truly useful and effective, beyond the good intentions of this motion for a resolution. Of course, this efficiency will not be achieved if we act alone. At global level, there is a need for an equally global response and collaboration. All levels of power must be involved: Europe through its conventions and regulations, the federal government with the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain, the customs police, the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products, but also the regions in view of the competences involved (hunting, fishing, species protection or biodiversity). The harmful effects of our influence on nature are one of the great lessons of this health crisis. Let's not wait for the next one to act!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u99	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u100	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u101	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, rapporteur, informed me that he referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u102	Madam President, we discussed the general accounts of the general administration of 2018 in plenary last month. The final account of this budgetary exercise is hardly interested in this House anymore and is being rushed by the committees and the plenary too late. Today we are talking about 2019. At the end of last year, the Court of Auditors published its 177th 'Blunderbook' on the annual accounts for 2019 of the general government. It reads as follows: "While the quality of the general government's financial statements deteriorated last year, it stabilised during the financial year under review. However, as in the previous year, this account still does not give a true picture of the financial situation and the state of assets of the general administration." Now, ladies and gentlemen, the words 'faithful image' are sometimes used rather lightly, but a true image is a fundamental starting point and is actually above all other accounting principles. The requirement of faithfulness to the image of the annual accounts is based on the generally accepted accounting principles and the resulting valuation rules. The Court of Auditors therefore essentially states, by stating that there is no true picture, that the federal State does not correctly apply the generally accepted accounting principles and the resulting accounting valuation rules itself. You understand that we will not approve these accounts for 2019. The Court of Auditors also writes that for certain headings a lot of transactions are not entered in the accounts or are not entered in the accounts. This applies in particular to tangible and intangible fixed assets, stocks, tax claims and financial resources. As regards tax revenue, despite the setting up of an ad hoc working group with the Court of Auditors, the FPS Finance has not succeeded in making the transition to the booking based on established rights, which is actually mandatory since 1 January 2017. The Court of Auditors also stresses that the lack of knowledge and control of accounting operations in the departments does not allow structural solutions to be found to the problems identified by the Court of Auditors since the start of the FEDCOM project. For example, the departments do not apply the Federal Accountant's instructions to the annual or monthly closures sufficiently and not uniformly. Madam Secretary of State, in your written answer to our questions about this, you replied that the FEDCOM School is now being renamed a kind of online webinar. It's all good for us, but all we can do is call on your cabinet to step up. The Court of Auditors also has a clear mandate for the government. The application of the notion of established law and the accountability of accounting operations are points of improvement. Internal claims and debts have been eliminated incompletely. Finally, the legislative and regulatory framework remains incomplete and the current internal control measures are insufficient. You intend to take legislative and regulatory initiatives to structurally improve the quality and reliability of the account. You also said in committee that you would make use, if necessary, of the possibility of imposing fines on those services which do not comply with their obligations. We will therefore certainly monitor your legislative and regulatory initiatives in the coming months. Your predecessor, Mr Clarinval, was already aware that certain recommendations have been formulated, reworded and reworded by the Court of Auditors for several years. He therefore instructed the FOD BOSA to draw up and follow up an action plan. We have already asked a lot of questions about this in committee. In the meantime, you have given us a detailed written reply. I would also like to thank you for those detailed and clear answers. That is a good and correct way of working with Parliament. You informed us that within the framework of this action plan, consultations have been held over the last few weeks and months between the FOD BOSA and the various administrations involved. The comments of the Court of Auditors for the 2018 and 2019 accounts are the first working points and priorities in the preparation of the certification. As I said at the committee meeting, all the institutions involved and the Court of Auditors will work intensively on this in the coming weeks and months. Finally, I would like to stress that we will continue to follow this dossier from the opposition in the coming months, especially towards certification at the end of this year. We are looking forward to the follow-up to this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, we are not here on a budget. So that's less of an interest. However, it is interesting to note some of the Court of Auditors' inquisitive remarks regarding these 2019 accounts. The Court of Auditors finally finds that the situation is not really better than that of the accounts for 2018 in terms of their management. I will provide some quotations from the Court of Auditors. "The Court notes once again that, while particular problems have been solved in the 2019 annual accounts, the fundamental observations concerning the annual accounts of previous years have not led to a significant improvement." Finding quite distressing! "The Federal Accountant has authorized accruals to be linked to the 2019 fiscal year after January 31, 2020", while the annual accounts give a more accurate picture of the economic reality. The Court reiterates that this practice is contrary to the Act of 22 May 2003. Therefore, the fundamental principles of state accounting are not respected. The FPS Finance, for example, cannot guarantee the fair image of the general account 2019 because not all accrued rights are yet included in the accounts. "We don't yet have a view of the state's heritage." In any society, there is a balance sheet and a profit and loss account. This should be the same with regard to state accounting, but "the 2019 balance sheet is still not based on a complete inventory of assets, rights and obligations etc. A complete picture of the general administration's heritage situation should have been available on December 31, 2016. It was still not as of December 31, 2019." It is a certain delay; or this other observation: "The Mobility FPS confirms that no land or building has been taken over", quite simply! Imagine societies that would do the same thing, it would be quite challenging! Perhaps much more serious: the Court of Auditors notes a €3 billion VAT error. A three billion euro mistake, excuse me for a little! FPS Finance was aware of this difference, but did not correct it in due course. Such mistakes are obviously very intriguing, so we will not be able to support those accounts. We understand that the majority is somewhat obliged to do so. Perhaps the N-VA, which was in business in 2018, is also obliged to support them. I assume its members will follow their logic for 2019. We had a discussion in committee with the Secretary of State on the 2018 accounts. What are the causes of this situation? We can understand that the Secretary of State is committed to making things change in the right direction, and we cannot expect anything else. However, for things to change, it would be useful to consider the causes of these anomalies, failing which it will be more difficult to find solutions. In this regard, I had put forward a hypothesis – which the Secretary of State did not seem to share – that the lack of staff, the dark cuts made in the services of public personnel under the previous governments – was indeed a policy and a hemorrhage that did not date back to the day – could be a path to be explored in order to detect the cause of the problems. Unfortunately, the current government does not seem to want to break with this logic of bleak cuts in the size of the state. It has been calculated that 5,000 jobs were lost under this legislature according to the planned savings. I had suggested to the Secretary of State that she look at this lead to see why these problems exist. But she didn't believe it too much. She was a little skeptical about that explanation. It is known that the Liberals are a little less sensitive to the issue of public personnel. However, in the Court of Auditors' report, there is still a small mention, perhaps representative of a more fundamental problem, in which it is pointed out that the lack of staff has played a role. This example can be found on page 93: "The Federal Accountant has been organizing an annual information session in recent years on the closure of operations and reporting. Due in particular to the reduced staffing of the service, it removed the information session for the annual closing of the 2019 accounts and replaced it with an e-mail submission." There is a sense that this staff is not trained enough to properly manage government accounting, but when the federal accountant wants to organize training, it is not clear that there are enough staff, if only to attend training. So if there are not enough staff to complete the training, imagine what is in place to put in place what would have been learned from the training! So that's a little the conclusion we're drawing in relation to that. Madam Secretary of State, avoid continuing in these cuts of staff because this situation is catastrophic and is likely to deteriorate further in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u104	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u105	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1718/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1718/1) The bill has 12 clauses. The draft law has 12 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u106	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u107	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Ahmed Laaouej and Mr Wouter Vermeersch, rapporteurs, referred to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u108	Madam President, Minister, we have already had a lot of debate on this issue. I sometimes get the impression that we are already up to the third securities tax. We've been working on it for three months. Today I will talk less about the technicality and the legal qualities. We have already discussed this very extensively in committee. I will try to confine myself to a number of political lines, which I think it is important to remind them once more, one last time. As you know, Minister, we do not consider it appropriate to introduce such a tax outside the framework of a major tax reform, because the tax burden in Belgium is already so high that a new tax can only be introduced as part of a global reform, with a shift and a tax reduction as a whole. It is often forgotten that investors are already heavily taxed in Belgium. In 2020, we recorded 3.8 billion euros in income from the stock market tax, securities tax and withholding tax. The tax has to be put in place. It has been one of the first acts of this government, because the government wants to send a signal. However, that signal appears to be far more diffuse than initially expected. If we listen to you and read the text on the tax, we are talking about a budgetary objective, a tax levied on accounts and in no way related to carrying capacity. We heard colleagues from the majority in committee meetings at first and second readings. I will not quote everything from that, but there is a clear common thread in it. This is a tax aimed at making the strongest shoulders, the richest, additional contributions in the context of this crisis. Therefore, it seems to me very difficult for the Constitutional Court, when it will have to assess this text, to insist that this is a purely budgetary text. This is important for the survival of this text, because it is likely that someone will go to the Constitutional Court. There is a second claim that is being made. Let us now turn to the fact that the tax requires an additional contribution from the strongest shoulders. If that is effectively the government's intention, then it soon becomes clear that this objective is not achieved at all by including all those legal entities. The greatest abilities emerge from the dance and all legal entities, without distinction, are also affected by local authorities and large university institutions, including their hospital. These are all actors who are already contributing to this crisis. Finally, you will indirectly deny that, but that turns out to affect the small investor, among other things, through branch 23 products, for which you do not wish to make an exception. In addition, the ordinary investor who does not invest in branch 23 products will also be indirectly affected, as the offer of financial products invested in will become poorer and poorer. Today there is an article in The Financial Times about Amsterdam, which is taking London's place as the big player for investing in shares. Belgium is declining in this respect and this tax will certainly not do any good. Another claim that is made is that it is a question of fair or fair taxation. In any case, I am already having difficulty with the puffy terminology of fair or just taxation, but if we look at the tax and the way it is worked out, then I do not see that justice everywhere. We see this clearly in the accountability of the EUR 1 million threshold and the unequal treatment that this creates in the case of an undivided one. What is also fair about a situation in which five children who are in undivided situations, for example in the context of an inheritance, and who each have EUR 200,000, will have to pay the security tax, while someone who has five accounts of EUR 750,000 will not have to pay the tax? I do not see what is fair or just about it. The non-contradictory provisions and the strict reversal of the burden of proof are also problematic and lead to inequality and to situations in which the responsible taxpayer remains unrequited with regard to the tax administration. As an example, I mention the taxpayer who converts his shares into registered shares. In doing so, the taxpayer can pursue a perfectly legitimate objective, namely the acquisition of double voting rights in a listed company. However, this transposition will be regarded as abuse and will not be accepted. What's right about that? I would therefore prefer to speak of correct taxation, by which I mean taxation that treats citizens equally, without discrimination, and which does not treat citizens who are good for it as fraudsters, but rather as real fraudsters. For me, this is a correct and fair tax, not what is now being done here, because in the text before us, the good man is still a non-disputed taxable person with regard to the tax administration. The next point is that you are trying to mask that it is not actually a subscription fee. I understand why you are trying to do that, because that is the legal basis on which you hope that the text will not be destroyed by the Constitutional Court. These securities tax should be proposed as a subscription fee, but we have shown in committee that it is not a subscription fee. It does indeed matter whether it is a resident or a non-resident, the quality and therefore the capacity of the person concerned is also important. You must therefore motivate why you do fish from a certain amount, but not below that amount. That justification is not sufficient. You also feel, in my opinion, that this tax has intrinsically the same problems as the effects tax that has been destroyed. It is not because the problems are affirmatively denied, that they are not embedded in the legal text. The non-counterfeitability in the anti-abuse provisions should only mask that. My fear is not so much that the tax can be destroyed, but I fear what comes next. In that sense, we have already received signals. Paul Magnette recently said that a progressive capital tax would have to be introduced in that case. In the Committee on Finance we heard Mr Piketty on this matter a few days ago. Annual valuations up to 3 % on the assets, I don't want to see it. Finally, I would like to talk about the signal that this tax sends to international players and investors. I did that at second reading. You have made a great deal of money available to Belgian companies when they wish to invest excess liquidity in a securities account and temporarily make money available to a foreign group member who, at the request or appointment of the Belgian company, will hold a securities account with a foreign institution. You said that the administration will act vigorously with the general anti-abuse clause. You are ignoring the free movement of capital and services in the European Economic Area. There was a time when Belgian policy sought to bring excess liquidity within multinationals to Belgium, but this tax is a clear signal that Belgium is no longer the place for the financial management of foreign assets. We should not therefore be surprised if foreign investment falls back in our country. I would like to conclude with a word about political renewal. That is the fashion word that started this government. At first we heard all the ministers saying that they were open to suggestions, including from the opposition, in order to improve their texts. We have tried in committee over the two readings, knowing that this tax would be introduced anyway, to strengthen and improve those elements in the text which we felt would damage the rights of taxpayers. I think that we have made very constructive proposals on this, in a technical and very reasonable and calm manner, but there has been more time spent looking for possible answers and ways of not having to go along with the opposition's amendments and suggestions, rather than admitting that such an amendment would improve the robustness of the text. I am sure that, perhaps not all but a number of amendments would certainly have made your text better and more robust, not only with regard to the Constitutional Court, but also with regard to the taxable person's position with regard to taxation. I may regret that most of all. I understand that we differ in terms of ideology. This is a left-wing government and we are a centre-right party, but I still regret most that the hand we have put out in this area is not being taken up. You will therefore not be surprised that we will not support this draft law with all its shortcomings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already indicated at the committee meeting that the draft before us will be one of the most important laws that we will adopt during the current legislature, at least in the area of finance. After all, this law will ensure that the greater capacities will also make a greater contribution to society. In the drafting of a law that affects the taxable base and the principles of who contributes what amount in our society, we already know in advance that two phenomena will emerge. Firstly, once the law is in place, some will look for ways to circumvent the law. They will ask a lot of money to share their findings with their customers. We know this will happen. Secondly, we also know that, once the law is established, people will look for arguments to convince the Constitutional Court to destroy the law. We know that too. That is why it is so important that the opinion of the Council of State is examined in depth. I would therefore like to thank the Minister and his team for the very comprehensive explanations, both in the explanatory statement and in the answers to the questions of the Council of State and in the oral explanation given by the Minister at the committee meetings. It's a difficult balancing exercise. I am convinced that we have found a good balance. Of course, it is always possible to call for adjustments, for exceptions to certain situations or for additional points to be included in the scheme. However, any changes made may result in the law becoming less robust and those phenomena that I mentioned will have a greater chance of success, a greater chance of avoiding the law, or a greater chance of the law being destroyed by the Constitutional Court. That is exactly what happened to the securities tax of the Swedish Government a few years ago. Adding exceptions and making adjustments have resulted in that law being finally destroyed by the Constitutional Court. I have pointed out that there are persons from the party of the then Minister of Finance, the N-VA, who claim that the law has always been intended to be destroyed. That was the intention from the beginning. That is absolutely not our intention. It is the intention of all the majority parties that we should install here a first, clear, recurrent contribution from the larger assets. I am convinced that the result of this text is in line with the opinion of the Council of State and that it will therefore pass the test of the Constitutional Court. It ensures that the larger assets will contribute EUR 400 million every year. That's not nothing. A lot of people are belittle about that, but that's not nothing. This is an important step forward. That is why the Ecolo Green Group will be happy to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take you back to the budget negotiations a few days before Christmas. Mr Piedboeuf then said the following about the securities tax. "It is not a new tax, it is the resurrection of the tax that we have designed together. When Georges-Louis Boucher says there will be no new taxes, one thing is for sure, it is his will. We do not want new taxes. I don't want any new taxes either." Mr Piedboeuf is contradicted on the first page of the explanatory memorandum to this bill. Let me read it out: "It is not the intention to remedy that destroyed tax as a result of the aforementioned judgment, but to introduce a new tax." Let me repeat it in French, so that the colleagues of the MR understand it very well: "The aim is not to correct the cancelled tax but to introduce a new tax." This is a new tax, a new tax. It must be clear to everyone that the securities tax is a new tax. The Liberals are in all corners and semantics in order not to have to talk about new taxes. That is why the Liberals are wisely talking about la résurrection, the resurrection of the securities tax. That is, to say the least, rather a disguise of reality, ladies and gentlemen. We would not dare to label the effect tax as a resurrection, but rather as a kind of warm corpse. Minister Van Peteghem was given the ungrateful task of patching up the negotiators who rushed first securities tax in seven to something that would more or less pass the legal test. In particular, the rush to collect an additional tax was obviously important, more important than a thorough preparation. The rush to push the tax forward after a few weeks creates little confidence in us and also creates uncertainty, and that is exactly what we do not need in these harsh economic times. Prime Minister De Croo recently said in De Tijd: "There is now mainly a need for fiscal rest. Well, today we're doing the opposite: the government is creating fiscal unrest. For entrepreneurs, the taxpayers in this country, that is, of course, extremely damaging. If something hypotheizes future consumption and growth in the relance, it is, of course, the prospect of new taxes. The ambiguous passages relating to the securities tax will eventually lead to a lot of discussion between the tax authorities, the taxpayers and the banks. In this way, it seems particularly uncertain that the tax at cruising speed will meet the target of EUR 430 million for the budget. The question is therefore rather whether the first Van Peteghemtaks will either fail in the legal test or become a budget flop. That is why it seems to us better to speak of a warm corpse instead of a resurrection. This resurrection is, by the way, outside the fiery tongues of the left and the socialists in the government. Remember, 50 days after the resurrection, the fiery tongues descended. As Mr Donné said, Paul Magnette also descended in a meanwhile notorious interview in L.Echo, and Magnette put the tips on the i in the interview. If the securities tax does not pass the legal test of the Constitutional Court, the PS President wants to continue with a modified version of the new tax and raise the rates significantly. Meanwhile, however, the fiery tongues have also descended on the socialist union and the ABVV-FGTB is also starting to increase the pressure on the securities tax. So the left is putting a lot of pressure on the government. When the PS and the N-VA reached an agreement last summer, there was also a security tax, a capital tax that also affected the small saver and the self-employed. So it is a clear socialist demand. Remember, last summer the liberals were a thorn in the eye. At least it seemed that way. Now that Open Vld has been able to redeem the prime minister, from seventh to seventh, they are introducing the same socialist demand today. Open Vld may officially supply the Prime Minister, unofficially the PS and the FGTB with Paul Magnette provide the shadow prime minister who determines the government's tax policy. The Parti Socialiste and no one else finally draws the lines of taxation in this country. Does that even have to surprise you? When the coalition agreement was proposed in October, the text was particularly woolly. Anyone could interpret the text in their own way. The MR and Open Vld oraken that there would certainly be no new taxes, the PS and sp.a then again talked about a contribution of the assets, while CD&V begged and prayed for what is called a fair tax. After four months, however, it is becoming increasingly clear that the PS and the socialists in the government determine the policy. Just look at the topicality, namely the PS's plea for a revival without structural and much-needed reforms, the call for a tobin tax, the veto against the sale of Ethias and the breaking of the wage bill. The Socialists put the pressure on the Liberals and put the knife to their throats. The first securities tax fell before the Constitutional Court; the second securities tax, which is before us today, was specially constructed to survive the Constitutional Court test, not to conduct the best possible policy. In Parliament's scenes, Paul Magnette is already ready with a third version of the securities tax. He's actually just waiting for the Constitutional Court to do its job. The purple-green government has the mouths of fair taxation, but ultimately it does not go beyond messing around in the fiscal margin. The new securities tax is actually just a patched-up version of the previous one. It is typically Belgian fiscal plumbing work. In any case, the securities tax is not the tax reform we need. The impact tax will not make our taxation simpler, but rather more complicated. The impact tax of the De Croo government is not only a form of symbolic politics, but is equivalent to a reform that makes our taxation even more complex and not fairer. That's why the securities tax isn't fair, but it's a stupid tax. The first, serious legislative work of purple-green teaches us a few things. Firstly, the corona crisis is being abused as a pretext for pushing a tax increase. Secondly, the corona pandemic is being abused to sell a structural, new tax as a kind of temporary crisis measure, a downright misleading sales pitch. Thirdly, we are talking about an uncircumcised capital tax, a clear left-wing demand, which not only targets citizens, but also entrepreneurship and other governments in this country. What is sold as a rich tax does not affect the most rich, but, as always, indirectly affects the middle class. The large scope of the tax is a direct attack on entrepreneurship. Fourthly, savings and investments in times of historically low interest rates are discouraged for the umpteenth time. Fifth, the purple-green parties are organising a new transfer from Flanders to Wallonia with the securities tax, which is as good as any other government in this country. It is clear that the left and Wallonia are allowed to decide in this country, but that Flanders will eventually have to pay the bill. The government is trying to suppress the criticism of the securities tax by saying that the new tax will be used to finance health care. Mr Minister, you said in presenting the impact tax to the press that the funds will be used for the additional expenditure in the health care sector as a result of the corona crisis and the extra hands around the bed of the corona patients. In an interview in De Zondag on 17 January this year, journalist Paul Cobbaert asked you whether there would actually be a fair contribution from the strongest shoulders. You repeated: "The first step has been taken. The securities tax, that money is integral for health care." Mr. Lester, that is, of course, wronging the truth. It's also reprehensible. In communication, the government places emphasis on issues raised by the current health crisis, but both objectives, the contribution of the strongest shoulders and the funding of health care, should not be explicitly used by the Council of State in the legal texts on which we are to vote today. Otherwise, the destruction by the Constitutional Court will again be threatened. What you do in Sunday is, of course, a downright misleading sales pitch. It is not a correct representation of the spirit of the securities tax that we approve here. Corona is being abused to push through a new load. A number of parties also tried to sell this security tax as a solidarity contribution, but of course nothing is less true. The impact tax is not a solidarity contribution at all. In the initial justification for the tax, the government referred to solidarity, but according to the Council of State, the tax has nothing to do with solidarity. Any reference to solidarity was deleted and without shame a new justification for this text was invented. This government wants to fight fake news, but it is of course fake news to argue that this government is introducing a new system of solidarity for the rescue of health care. It is also indicative of the weakness of this coalition. Your government is talking about fair taxation, but it is anything but fair about this piece of taxation. The tax margin and an increase in tax should be worn out by the general public by means of a misleading sales pitch. We hope that this is not a preliminaries of the new political culture within this government. The majority parties also make it appear that this is a rich tax, but it is ultimately a flat tax on the middle class. People with an art collection of 10 million euros will not be charged in any way, but the tax will eventually seep to the middle class. We see three ways in which that tax moves to the middle class. Firstly, this tax puts pressure on the budget of a lot of organisations and governments, which are also endorsed by this new impact tax. If they want to keep their budget tight, they need to look for additional funding. So new income and taxes. As always in this country, they end up on middle-class hoods. Secondly, nothing prevents this or any future government from reducing the maximum amount of EUR 1 million or increasing the rate of 0.15 percent. The coalition agreement also allows to increase taxes in any budget format and in any budgetary control. In the end, where will the border be, ladies and gentlemen? If this law comes into force, the upper limit can be lowered or the rate increased with one draw and we will of course get to the middle class again quickly. Thirdly, in the meantime, it has been found that the new version of the securities tax, as mentioned earlier by Mr Donné, will indirectly affect people with a capital of less than EUR 1 million, because insurance companies selling investment products to small savers will be allowed to pass on securities tax. Belgian insurers are therefore very hard hit by the new securities tax. They are suing the unfair treatment of small savers under the new tax. Since the normal savings books are almost empty, bankers are proposing more and more alternatives to their small savers, so that their money would yield some return. Branch 23 funds are such a typically popular savings product. Directly the holder of a branch 23 below 1 million euros will not be taxed, but the insurer who manages the funds usually bundles the investments of several customers into a securities account, which is of course very soon at 1 million euros. As soon as the securities account exceeds EUR 1 million, it becomes the subject of this new tax. Most fiscalists who have already seen the bill leave no doubt about it: banks and insurers that offer branch 23 products will simply pass on the securities tax through the management costs. In practice, this means that all private savers investing in a branch 23 fund indirectly pay the securities tax, including the smaller savers who, for example, put 2,000 euros into a branch 23 fund. The small saver is thus also the victim of collateral damage. The Liberals have so far remained remarkably silent about indirectly addressing those small savers. The small savers will therefore effectively be the victims, unless, of course, they go to Luxembourg, for example. Foreign insurance institutions escape the tax. This tax thus creates a level playing field that affects the small investor and the Belgian financial sector. Belgian insurers fear that more Belgian savers will opt for Luxembourg. Today, about 30% of the 23-product branch in our country already comes from insurance companies based in Luxembourg. This ratio will only increase due to the impact tax. Perhaps, with SNCB, we should re-attach a coupon train to Luxembourg. Tax tourists can then take the coupon train to Luxembourg with their free Railpass from this government to invest there in branch 23 products. Prior consultation between the sector and the Minister of Finance could have ensured balanced and supported legislation without adverse impact on the Belgian economy and the financial sector. To make a long story short: it is not the super rich who will pay this tax, but this tax will indirectly seep through to the middle class in three ways. It is not only a tax on the middle class, it is indeed a tax on entrepreneurship. The coalition agreement is barely four months old or it is already broken on two crucial points. Firstly, no new taxes would be introduced except in the context of budgetary discussions. It was therefore assumed that new taxes would only be discussed in the budgetary control of March 2021, but today and also in the programme law we already approved several direct and indirect taxes. Secondly, there would be a fair contribution from those with the greatest capacity, with respect for entrepreneurship, but the new securities tax also includes companies and self-employed persons. Entrepreneurs will, quite rightly, see the securities tax as an additional burden on companies. The effect has already been cited by Mr Donné: shares in name are not endorsed, but a lot of companies also have a savings fund. In addition to the capital of one's own company, this savings fund is often invested in investments. Those companies were already subject to a relatively new added value tax and so the securities tax is added to that. Normally these investments are intended to compensate for the much too low pension of self-employed persons, but they will now be subject to additional taxation. Tax plumbing and tax messing, while many companies are fighting for their survival, cannot be explained. While many self-employed and entrepreneurs are currently fighting for their cause, you are starving with their pension. This is not a solidarity contribution, but rather an attack on entrepreneurship. This tax is no longer targeted at the persons, but at the securities accounts themselves. It is about every natural person, but also every legal person who has a securities account. This means that the regions, the Communities, the provinces, the intercommunals, the autonomous municipal companies, the cities and municipalities, the agglomerations, the OCMWs, the sickness funds, the universities, the foundations, the non-profit organisations and so on are all endorsed by this tax increase. The federal government actually wants to tax almost every other government or institution in this country. It certainly seems logical to us that one government should not impose taxes on another. The Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities (VVSG) also says that, and as the mayor of De Pinte, this association is perhaps known to you, Minister. Now if there's to be one party that's sensitive to what lives on the local boards, isn't that CD&V? A large majority of the CD&V mayors are particularly critical of this purple-green coalition, which you already know. Who can blame them if they now see one of the first concrete policy actions of this government? Luc Sels, Rector of the Catholic University of Leuven, was also unhappy with your new tax. "It is for a university with a large hospital in the same legal entity special to pay a security fee for the financing of social security of all kinds," he wrote on Twitter, clearly referring to some kind of cardigan pocket operation. Those institutions, non-profit organisations and foundations usually save quite defensively. Since savings accounts are virtually zero, they are almost obliged to invest through securities accounts. They are now faced with an additional tax, without anything to do with it. In addition, entry fees, stock market fees and the uncertainty associated with investment are added. Interest rates are unlikely to rise significantly again in the coming years. Investing therefore remains the best option for many citizens and organisations to raise savings. But it is now clear that investors will have to help close the hole in the state treasury. At the end of January, investors, especially Flemish investors, paid more than 3.8 billion euros of withholding tax, stock exchange tax and securities tax in 2020. The federal government expects investors to pay far more taxes in 2021. It is counting on EUR 3.9 billion of withholding tax thanks to a partial recovery of dividend payments. The proceeds of the stock exchange tax will of course depend on the stock exchange environment and the behaviour of investors, but the securities tax will have to make a substantial contribution this year. These negative advertising and taxes due to the securities tax are, of course, detrimental to the many types of institutional and private investors that this country is rich in. Many of us know, of course, that the EUR 1 million ceiling can be reduced with a drawing of pens. It is therefore particularly unfortunate that investment is once again discouraged by a new tax increase. The fact that public entities and public authorities are obliged to pay this tax is yet another scandalous transfer within Belgium. The Flemish Region, the provinces, the municipalities and the OCMWs will have to pay off to the extent to which they have a securities account worth more than 1 million euros. That money's all gonna be in the federal cashier. The federal government is responsible for social security income and expenditure, but will now seek money to finance it, among other things, from local authorities. The Länder and local authorities will thus contribute to the financing of federal social security, which is another transfer from those who are sparing to those who consume everything and build up debts. This is on top of the fact that most securities account holders are in Flanders in any case and on top of the fact that we are currently in an unprecedented social and economic crisis. Every government in this country will need all the resources it can possibly take to achieve a recovery policy. Regional and local authorities are milked by the federal level and limited in their ability to invest freely, just when this is absolutely necessary. That goes against the idea of state reform. Through the back door of a tax on the savings of the municipalities, the provinces and the Länder, a new transfer is now being organised towards federal social security, which is a bottomless pit. We cannot accept the fact that the federal government is now also making local and regional authorities contribute to dampening the federal well or making it a little bit less deep. It is clear that the left and Wallonia are allowed to decide in this country, but that Flanders will eventually have to pay the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, many attempts have already been made in the past to increase the burden on large capacities, albeit without too much success. Taxing large assets is not only political but also not legally evident. The original securities tax was destroyed by the Constitutional Court. The Council of State perfectly reveals that the new impact tax is also art and flying. In order to justify that shares are not endorsed by name, the tax had to be transformed into a purely budgetary measure. In this case, however, the Council of State wonders why a threshold of, for example, EUR 1 million and also a rigorous anti-abuse clause are needed. The criticism of the Council of State and the subsequent adjustments ensure that the securities tax is no longer a rich tax and no longer a solidarity contribution. The criticism of the Council of State reduces the impact tax to its essence, an ordinary tax increase. The threshold of 1 million remains the weak point of this security tax. The Council of State found that the government did not give any convincing justification for this. The government adjusted the accountability accordingly, but we are not sure that that argument will suffice. For us, the risk is very real that the Constitutional Court will once again destroy the present securities tax. The attached anti-abuse clause also seems to give rise to disputes between banks, investors and the tax authorities, which can lead to problems if someone eventually goes to the Constitutional Court. The adaptation of this anti-abuse clause is mainly a bitter pill for left-wing parties within purple-green. In particular, the socialists were calling for strict anti-abuse provisions to ensure a sufficiently high contribution from the strongest shoulders. The Council of State goes through that clearly left-wing and socialist ambition. According to tax lawyers, the modified anti-abuse provision in this legal text is pure kafka. Except for those tax lawyers, no one will get any better from this security tax. So Minister Van Peteghem had to push through a symbolic tax at all costs, while all the Presidents at the negotiating table, as well as the experienced members in the Finance Committee and the experienced Members in this House, know all too well that the tax that is before us today is going to run into a lot of legal difficulties. That is the drama of a government with seven mini-partyes and four different ideologies, a government that has born a purple-green monstrosity. This securities tax is becoming a liability and a political problem for this government and the risk is very real that the Constitutional Court will also destroy these securities tanks. Therefore, Flemish Interest cannot and will not approve this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u111	Madam President, the concept of justice has already been mentioned here. For CD&V justice is important in all aspects, especially in taxation. This is also reflected in the government agreement in many areas, on tax fraud, on avoidance mechanisms, but also on this tax. What is in store is one of the links in this just taxation. The design ensures a fair contribution to securities accounts. Not just on every securities account, but on securities accounts of a certain size. This should finance general funding for health care. Of course, it's kicking in an open door. Today we are faced with the biggest health crisis our generations have ever experienced. Public life is at a standstill. With the vaccination centers we get the largest logistics operation since World War II. In order to cope with this health crisis, the government must, of course, take everything out of the box, both operational and financial. The government is expected to provide financial support to companies and support workers affected, protect the vulnerable, and give our hospitals and health workers good remuneration and good working conditions. None of that can happen on its own. There are certain costs involved. Efforts and time are also needed. And money, too. When a government makes efforts for society, it must of course be financed. That's why we all pay taxes, and that's why a government can also call on those individuals and entities that have resources to contribute extra. It is precisely the proceeds of this annual tax on securities accounts that will form part of the efforts needed to address, among other things, the current health context. Let us look at the bill itself. It is clear that there is an annual tax on securities accounts of more than EUR 1 million on average. What's crucial there? Well, that tax will be collected through intermediaries. The starting point is that the declaration, retention and payment will all be made through these intermediaries, which will also make implementation and implementation much easier. In addition, it is very characteristic that the securities account is central to this tax, not the debt holder, and that the way in which the securities account is held is not relevant. The number of exceptions has also been kept very limited. This has been discussed in detail in committee. In the end, therefore, the Minister has answered many technical questions and concerns in a very comprehensive way. So we can speak of a well-balanced tax, the securities accounts are central and it is relatively easy to put into practice. As a result of the discussion in the committee and here in the media, a number of comments have already been made on this tax. Specialists and newspaper commentators spoke of the revival of Michel I's destroyed securities tax. Well, nothing could be further from the truth. We have another tax that has to do with effects and there is a similarity, but this tax has been completely revised and rebuilt technically, legally and fiscally. It has therefore become a subscription fee, such as the annual tax on credit institutions and insurance undertakings. In addition, it was clearly not intended to completely remedy the destroyed tax, taking into account the judgment, it was intended to introduce a new tax. The new tax relates to the holding of a securities account, which constitutes the taxable matter. That is very different from the Swedish securities tax, because that was the issue of the debt holder as a taxable item. This has been discussed precisely in order to address any future concerns. In addition, the new tax includes all financial instruments in a securities account. This, too, contrasts with the tax of the Michael administration in which a selection was made. This, too, should address any objections. In short, this draft law makes it clear that we have learned from the past. The tax has been completely rebuilt and we have come to a balanced arrangement to ensure that people with a high capacity can make a fair contribution. I said that a lot has already been said and written in the run-up to this discussion, and we have heard criticism here again today. First of all, it is said that this is a tax on the middle class. When we speak of a securities account of at least EUR 1 million, that is a strange definition of the middle class. Reference is also made to the municipalities and local authorities that would be affected by this. I can tell you that the holding of a securities account with more than EUR 1 million by a municipality or local government does not occur everywhere, which is not standard practice. There was also a lot of criticism of the robustness of the law. The law would be destroyed, it is not robust and not written well enough. That is, in itself, a criticism to be accepted. The law must, of course, be robust. At the same time, it is said that the deletions should be re-implemented after objections from the Council of State. Exceptions should be made for public authorities. For non-profit organisations, exceptions should be made. If we do that, we will be gathering arguments to allow the tax to be destroyed. The argument of branch 23, on which the tax levied could have a negative effect, is also, of course, cited. That would be the theoretical possibility if the holder of that tax would pass it on to the person who made the investment. Of course, that is 0.15 %. A person with a branch 23 of 1,000 or 2,000 euros is therefore not severely affected by this tax. This amounts to EUR 1.5 to EUR 3 per year for these amounts. On the other hand, some believe that the proposal does not go far enough and that alternative scenarios are being launched that go much further. There are a number of legal problems with this. The principle of non bis in idem can thus be violated by a general, large capital tax and there can be an infringement against federal loyalty. Moreover, such matters are unrealistic and not implementable. That's exactly what this tax is. It is not only balanced, but also very realistic and easy to implement. The criticism of the Constitutional Court has been taken into account. This does not guarantee 100 %, but the new tax is based on a set of new principles that no longer make it self-evident to have the tax destroyed, as opposed to the previous tax. In addition, there is also a very nice return on this tax. From next year, that will be 429 million euros a year. That's not nothing. That is a truly structural and essential contribution to our health care. Finally, this tax is also efficient and easy to collect. We all have here, all of us, the mouths of simplification, of good service, of less paperwork and administration. This tax can be implemented quickly and easily through intermediaries. That is precisely what is needed because the proceeds will also partly serve the acute nature of the health crisis. Were there any other options available? Perhaps so, but the question is whether they would also be so efficient and easy to implement. Colleagues, this draft law introduces a simple, efficient, fast-to-use tax, with a significant yield. This will be part of the efforts needed to overcome the health crisis. Our group will therefore support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am rather astonished to hear the parties of the nationalist right more or less extreme criticise this tax on the basis of considerations that really seem to me to be next to the plate. I hear the N-VA expressing all its fear of the red that could be found in this tax, whereas the latter is, in fact, a copy-paste of the tax that N-VA Finance Minister Johan Van Overtveld had passed under the previous government. It can be said that Johan Van Overtveldt is not really a leftist; he is even a great fan of Milton Friedman, the father of neoliberalism. This tax, which was therefore introduced by Johan or Milton Van Overtveldt, is today criticized by the N-VA. I also hear the Vlaams Belang saying that it is the socialists who impose tax policy in this government, when, as Mr Benoît Piedboeuf said, it is a resurrection of the tax on the Michel government's securities accounts. It's pretty amazing to hear this kind of aberration! But this party has to hang up on something. The reality is that the Liberals have never accepted the principle of really taxing the richest. I remember discussions that I had with Charles Michel at the beginning of the previous legislature, during which he stated that the government agreed with the principle of fairer taxation, but that it was necessary to see on what basis. This finally reminds us of the debate we had on Tuesday in the Finance Committee, in which Mr Piedboeuf said that he was in favour of equal opportunities, to which Mr Piketty replied that he was in favour of equal opportunities, except when we had to try to implement it. It must be noted that the Liberals have managed to impose their three beacons on this issue. These beacons they had imposed for the tax on securities accounts under the Michel government, they again imposed them here. These three beacons consist: firstly, in a purely symbolic tax; secondly, in a tax which does not affect the great fortunes; thirdly, in a tax which does not call into question bank secrecy and which does not imply the constitution of a cadastre of fortunes. That is the reality of this tax. Under the right-wing government, the Michel government, a 0.15 per cent tax was imposed on securities accounts only. Under this government, we have a 0.15% tax that only affects securities accounts. Yes, some arrangements have been made to avoid annulment on the basis of the same elements by the Constitutional Court, although other elements may be challenged by the Court, but on the merits, one has exactly a copy-paste. We're wondering. What did the four left-wing parties of this government weigh in the development of this tax during the debates? We can understand that we have to compromise when we are in a government that mixes right and left parties but here, what was the weight of the four left parties? It sucks since we had, before, 0.15% only on the securities accounts and now we have 0.15% only on the securities accounts! In committee, I asked to hear the opinion of Thomas Piketty and Paul De Grauwe on this tax on securities accounts. Paul De Grauwe is quite critical and we know the quality of Thomas Piketty's analysis. He is, I think, the most renowned economist in the world on the issue of taxation of major assets. He's someone I've had a relationship with for a long time on these issues. Long before he wrote his bestseller, Capital in the 21st century, and as part of our reflection at the PTB on the taxation of big fortunes and our proposal for a millionaire tax, I had had discussions with him for his very informed advice. I therefore found it useful to hear him on the question of this tax on securities accounts. Unfortunately, no party of the majority or of the opposition supported my request. I was very surprised on Tuesday to hear Mr Ben Achour tell Thomas Piketty how happy and proud he was to have him in committee and that he was for his group "a source of major inspiration". But while I was proposing to invite this "major source of inspiration" to discuss the tax on securities accounts, there, his group and all the others refused Mr Piketty's arrival. Finally, happy coincidence of calendar, two days ago, Thomas Piketty came anyway, not to decide on the tax on securities accounts, but – as was long planned – to give an opinion on the "corona" tax on the multimillionaires of the PTB. This is a "one shot" version, in the context of the crisis of the coronavirus, of our tax on millionaires, which is an annual tax, but with a higher rate, since it would be a one shot tax to deal with the health crisis. This tax is not simply on securities accounts and does not have a ridiculous tax rate, but it is a real tax on big fortunes. So we had the chance to receive Thomas Piketty who came to committee to give his opinion on the PTB proposal. Mr Piketty, being an intelligent and knowledgeable person, realized that there was a tax debate on the taxation of large fortunes, and that this debate was crystallized somewhere between a real property tax, as provided for in the PTB's proposal, or a false property tax, as provided for in the government's text. Mr. Piketty made the necessary comparisons. I think his opinion is unappealable. What's he telling us? He is very critical of this tax on securities accounts. First of all, he tells us that the rate of 0.15%, "it's really not much, it's not going to pay much" – I quote. It refers to Germany in 1952 where there was a 50% rate, or even Japan where there were 80% rates in crisis situations. These are rates of taxation on wealth, not on income. It can be understood that a rate of taxation on wealth is not the same as a rate of taxation on income. These are two very different things. But he was talking about the rate of taxation on wealth. Another concern in his eyes, which joins our criticisms, is that not all assets are targeted. Shares that are not held in a securities account or real estate assets will be exempt. He added that all this was very regrettable, because equal taxation was required, failing which it was difficult to build a consensus. Indeed, from the moment when the great fortunes escape because they have a type of wealth that is not covered by the tax, it creates a feeling of injustice instead of having more tax justice. Finally, Mr Piketty compares this account-title tax with the PTB's coronary tax: a rate of 5% which would apply above EUR 3 million. He said that the tax was more likely to develop a concept of fair taxation, which could be adapted to the current context. The performance assessed is obviously much more significant, without being excessive. Thomas Piketty's judgment is without appeal in relation to this fake tax. The two main problems of this tax are the targeted heritage and symbolic performance. Almost everything is excluded from the tax base: castles, hunting estates – whose owners, who own hundreds of hectares, make the law as in the Middle Ages – yachts, private jets, jewellery, antiques, works of art and, above all, nominal actions. Today, there are thirty billionaires in Belgium compared to one 20 years ago. Thomas Piketty explains this increase in wealth by saying that the return on capital is higher than the growth of the economy and that the rich are becoming richer and richer. A tax on wealth will only limit the increase in these fortunes and not dilapidate them. Not all of this is targeted. These nominative actions are not covered and, therefore, all major assets are not affected by the tax on securities accounts, including some of these great fortunes which are agents of the MR, either in the Brussels Parliament or in the Walloon Parliament. Mr Piedboeuf, I assure you, I will not give a name. He's not my type! As far as criticism is concerned, since these nominal actions are not affected by the tax on securities accounts, I will quote Mr Vanvelthoven, who was a member of Parliament sp.a. under the previous legislature. He said: "The tax on securities accounts is the so-called tax on the government's wealth. From the outset, however, the government has made it clear that nominative shares would be subject to this tax, which has been criticized both in society and politically, on the grounds that some big fortunes would be taxed but others not." If he allows it, I will also quote our colleague, Ahmed Laaouej, who, under the previous legislature, said: "The bill also excludes from the scope of the tax nominative securities which are held only in a stock register on the grounds, inter alia, that these instruments are more difficult to negotiate and are based on more investment logic than investment logic. And to make this distinction is to ignore the reality of nominative titles." I applaud Mr Laaouej, in any case in his version of the previous legislature because he had clearly identified the problem of the tax on securities accounts. Today, indeed, trade unions and associations are very critical of this tax, particularly the Network for Fiscal Justice, which in a recent press release says: "This tax does not meet the legitimate demand for a significant contribution from those who have the most important financial resources, in particular to support the health sector. Only the movable and financial assets held via a securities account would be targeted." I am not going to quote again Paul De Grauwe, who criticizes the hypocrisy surrounding this tax on securities accounts and makes the same criticism about the absence of taxation of nominal shares. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one point that I would like to pin on this question, which is the "contrary" of the president of the Socialist Party. This misconception was repeated on Tuesday in committee by Mr Ben Achour, who said that this tax on securities accounts had been introduced because, in the end, real estate cannot be included in a federal property tax because it is a regional matter. I think that Mr Laaouej would not venture on such a moving terrain because he is recognized as someone who knows taxation. The words of Mr. Ben Achour is therefore a flagrant counter-truth, because it is obvious that real estate can be part of the heritage covered by a federal tax on big fortunes! All the specialists say so. It is therefore a somewhat questionable manoeuvre to try to justify the fact that only securities accounts are covered. These words are a smokescreen that I perceive as a questionable argument. This argument is also contradicted by the PS's proposal, which has indeed tabled in this Parliament a proposal for a law on a property tax which covers all assets, including real estate assets. The PS therefore contradicts itself with the proposal it has introduced. The other main criticism of this tax is, of course, symbolic performance. Thomas Piketty talks about 0.15%, which is really ridiculous. And indeed, the Liberals recognized from the outset – which is indeed damaging and hypocritical on the part of the right-wing parties of this government – that the objective was purely symbolic. The only objective was therefore to pass the pill of the other measures which, they, will affect the workers and the population. The proof of the symbolic nature of this tax is its yield of 428 million euros. In absolute terms, this may seem important if we are not aware of the budget scales. But if we relate this to the tax revenues collected by the federal government, we find that this corresponds to 0.36% of the tax revenues collected – 0.36% for some of the rich because the richest are not targeted – and the rest is paid by the population. In order to avoid annulment by the Constitutional Court, an array of legal arguments and techniques have been put in place to make bladders look like lanterns. This is the most pernicious result of this tax. In the end, a gas plant was created that generates its own contradictions. Among these, a collateral effect will be to reach people who are not millionaires at all, since the legal trick is to say that people are not going to be taxed, but securities accounts via a subscription fee. For example, in the case of a securities account with a assets of 1.2 million that would be held by four siblings who would have inherited it from their parents, each of them has a assets of 300,000 euros. They will still be affected by the tax. Another case is the branch 23 sufficiently pinned by the press and many jurists. These insurances associated with a risk financial investment will be taxed from the time insurance companies use securities accounts to implement these branch 23 insurances. Assuralia stated that this would have an impact on small savers who, passing through branch 23, will be indirectly affected by the account-securities tax. This is the summum, since the great fortunes will not be affected, while the small savers will be affected. But this tax had been sold to us as being aimed at the widest shoulders. Therefore, you will understand that we cannot support this text, which, contrary to what some colleagues have said, is not a first step towards taxation of the richest. It is a real first-class burial of the idea of creating a real tax on wealth. It is only a symbolic tax, which allows us to say: "We have fulfilled our work. Now we can attack the population." The effect will therefore be counterproductive. As I said, this tax saves billionaires and strikes modest savers. For this reason, we will not support it and will vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u113	Madam President, it is always a pleasure to speak after Mr. Van Hees. This makes it possible to set beacons between the far left and the far right, since the truth is in the middle. I am surprised by you, Mr Van Hees, that an amount of 400 million does not seem to you to be enormous. You love Mr. Piketty. However, despite his flair and knowledge, he preaches an erroneous and dangerous ideology – without pretending that it is physically so. Those whom he advises, namely the French socialists, have received little success. Thus, Mr Hollande, who had advocated the famous idea of a 75% progressive rate on income, did not dare to renew it. Above all, he did not dare to represent himself for a new term. Then, Mr Piketty advised Mr Benoît Hamon, leader of the PS, whose score in the presidential elections reached 6%, before recording 3% two years later. In short, I do not know if it is good advice to refer to this author. I shall also repeat what I said in committee. The securities tax is an improved version of what was achieved under the previous coalition. A beauty prize certainly doesn't deserve the tax. Few tax laws deserve one, by the way. There will always be fiscalists whispering in the ear that there is a problem. For example, yesterday we heard that a new tax niche was invented, including the EUR 200 million in arrears of miners' pensions, which means that they should not be taxed. In any case, it is clear to everyone that it is a more well-founded text. Let us be honest: Liberals are never enthusiastic about taxes, but this is an already introduced contribution which is given a legal basis. 400 million isn't little. It is now possible to discuss which shoulders should bear the burden. Well, that will be the shoulders that can do the same. We do not like it, but everything is fair. The tax comes with respect for entrepreneurship. It even encourages savings to be invested in the real economy. We respect the word we have given in the framework of the coalition agreement. Minister, I am also counting on your colleagues to speed up other cases. In this way, we must also work on the essential reform of the labour market. After all, we cannot keep getting the extra resources for the treasury from the citizens. Our social image with corresponding redistribution can only be realised if we increase the basis sustainably, if more people work and we reach an activity rate of 80%. That is why our group will approve the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u114	Madam President, I won't be very long. I would just like to make a few clarifications. Finally, in this semantics, everyone is right. As my colleague Steven Mathei said, we learned from the past. In particular, the remarks of the Constitutional Court have been taken into account. This is a resurrection of the concept. Indeed, the target is different, the shape is different and the base is different. In this sense, it is indeed a new tax. But the concept existed. And if I mentioned the resurrection of the tax, it was because our colleagues at the N-VA were criticizing that tax, whose principles they had designed with us. So, everybody's right. I come to Mr. Marco Van Hees' remarks. Mr Van Hees, to say that this is a derisory recipe when it makes it possible to pay the White Blouse Fund, it is still frankly scandalous! We honor his saints as we know them, Mr. Van Hees. Your saint is Mr. Piketty. You pay tribute to him, that's very good! But in his presentation, he also demonstrated the ability of his confiscatory vision. He wants all 26-year-olds to inherit from 120 to 140,000 euros, and when asked how he's going to make everyone inherit, he says he's going to collect the money everywhere among those who have it. In doing so, the person who should have received a EUR 1 million inheritance will ultimately inherit only EUR 600,000 because he would have had to pay a tax of EUR 400,000 in order for that money to be distributed. This is a bit like a Bible view of the distribution of breads! It's Robin Hood! If Mr. Piketty is your saint, that's your right. Saint Piketty, you pay tribute to him, that's very good! I have to tell you that I didn't know this gentleman, and I was embarrassed not to know him. Now that I've met him, I'm cured forever, even though it's true that the exchange we've had was interesting. This allowed us to know his vision. As far as we are concerned, our vision is not confiscatory. It is contributory, as far as possible. That said, it is indeed a concept that we have designed and that is now presented, with much stronger arguments, by the minister. We will, of course, support this bill. And thanks to the amount we're going to get, we're going to pay for the White Blouse Fund that wasn't funded. We decided on the expense, but we didn't decide on the recipe. We will therefore support this recipe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u115	Madam President, Minister, let me start with the most important thing: I can assure you that the sp.a. Group will of course support this draft law. It ensures, just four months after the government's accession, that people with the highest capacity in our society will contribute EUR 400 million extra to our health care every year. Over the last few months, we have seen the importance of health care to stay out of the water during this ongoing health crisis. She is under enormous pressure, so that extra EUR 400 million is more welcome than ever and is now welcome. I am pleased that Mr Leysen has quoted it, but it is only fair that we should appeal to those with the highest capacity for this, because that is exactly what we are doing with an annual fee of 0.15 % on securities portfolios of more than EUR 1 million. I would like to stress that, because some of the families in our country have no financial assets other than a savings account. All other financial assets are concentrated among the top 20 % earners, in the fifth of the population with the highest incomes. With the EUR 1 million threshold, we will make a very small selection. It is therefore absolutely about the contribution of the most wealthy in our country. I am particularly pleased, Minister, that you have done so quickly. It says something about the strength of this coalition in crisis time. It also says something about part of the opposition. I am talking about that part that is situated on the extreme sides of the political centre, both left and right, which I cannot help but mention that fake arguments have to be waved in order to understand why they will vote against. Mr Vermeersch, I have listened to your long speech, but there was now zero coherence in it. You started by saying that the coalition agreement was written by the Socialists and that the Socialists 'knocked on the throat' make the right-wing parties swallow their fiscal programme. At the end of your speech, you say that the left-wing parties have bitten in the sand. These are two different points of view in one speech. So I don't remember much. Mr Vermeersch, I have read the reports on two readings by the committee and it shows that the Flemish interest simply does not want any additional contribution from the most wealthy in this country. That's what you're here for. We heard another long speech from the PVDA. It is clear that they would rather stand alone in the desert than vote for an additional EUR 400 million per year for our health care paid by the richest in our society. We have to do it. [[.]] What arguments does the opposition, on the left and right, use to try to explain why they cannot approve this bill? A first argument relates to the 23 life insurance business. The opposition parties raise the small pension saver with a partial certificate in the securities portfolio of an insurer. In theory, this small pension saver can be exposed to 1.5 euros per 1,000 euros, provided that the insurer, who actually has to pay the tax, decides to pass that tax on to his customers in full. It is true that the insurance sector threatened to pass that on when it came to lobby to adapt our text to the needs of the sector. Colleagues of Flemish Interest and PVDA, you could have chosen to respond to the insurance sector by suggesting that for once this sector does not pass on all the costs to customers. After all, the pension savers, who are supposed to be yours, already pay at least ten times the cost. The entry fee for a branch 23 insurance amounts to 4 to 6 % and the annual management fee amounts to 1.5 %, the tenfold of what is now in the securities tax. You could have told the insurers that they shouldn't charge the costs, but you didn't. You could have also highlighted the option that this coalition is giving light to. You'd better take a look at the coalition agreement. It contains a passage which states that we want to identify and address entry costs and management costs. You could have put forward a proposal for this. What did you do? You have stood up as the spokesmen of Assuralia instead of the defenders of the pension savers. You're just the ventriloquist dolls of the insurance sector. Mr Vermeersch, in your speech I have heard you quote literally from the press release of Assuralia, which is threatening to pass on that tax. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen of the PVDA and Flemish Interest, how do you actually explain to that small pension horse that you are opposed to an extra contribution, not by them, but by the richest part of the population, to contribute to the cost of this health crisis that affects everyone and perhaps the small pension saver even more than the richest who will contribute. How do you explain that you say nothing about the costs they have to pay to these insurers every year? In fact, how do you explain that you take it for granted that the securities tax is fully passed on by insurance companies? You take that for granted. The sector is threatening and lobbying here and the PVDA and Flemish Interest are saying: they are right, they are going to pass it on, we must do something about it, and that is why we are going to vote against that tax. I think that's crazy. I do not know the importance of this, but it is certainly not the interest of the hard-working fellow citizen who puts aside a penny for his pension. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the majority can look these people in the eye, because we keep our word. We are carrying out what we put on paper four months ago, and that is that the most wealthy will contribute to the health care of all of us. The colleagues from the far left, from PVDA, have beaten us in almost every committee meeting and also today with their millionaire stakes. Mr Van Hees, PVDA colleagues seem unable to recognise that EUR 400 million per year is a substantial sum, every year. That means more than a billion more for our health care by the end of the legislative term. Mr Van Hees, you are well aware that securities portfolios of more than EUR 1 million are subject to a minimum percentage of the population. This is about the most powerful. Why do we do that through these securities portfolios? Because they are all registered because we know who they belong to and because we know up to two decimals what their value is, so that we can quickly and efficiently calculate and actually collect that tax. From now on, every year, EUR 400 million extra for health care and the Labour Party will vote against it. Mr Vermeersch, I have heard you join the PVDA, which I found surprising. It is true that the most wealthy in this country also have castles, yachts, hunting grounds, forests, art collections and well-stocked wine cellars. That's right, but do we know those power components? You don't think it's fair that they're not taxed. So you're pleading for a fortune caster. That's your plea I just heard. You have literally said that it is not fair that people with a large art collection should not pay anything. Well, that's a plea for a fortune caster. Today, in this crisis, our healthcare needs extra funding. We have agreed that the richest will contribute. We have said that we know the securities portfolios up to the last eurocent and that we do not know all those power components with which the PVDA swings, let alone that we can appreciate them or tax them and collect them quickly. Yesterday will indeed have been a great day for you, Mr Van Hees, when we heard Professor Piketty say that capital taxes were levied in Germany just after the Second World War up to 50%. I've seen your eyes twinkle. You very much like to quote Mr Piketty, but then I wonder where you stand with your long exposés on the millionaire stake. I looked it up. At the beginning of this legislative period, in September, you have the bill No. 0397/001 on the introduction of a millionaire tax. Mr Van Hees, in the meantime, almost a year and a half later, I ask you if you have already found anyone but yourself to support that bill. During this long period of time without a government, in which we looked among ourselves for majorities to approve proposals, did you manage to put forward one proposal in the Committee on Finance which was supported by a group other than yours? Mr. Van Hees, your bill has been a stillborn child since day one. Now you come to a hearing with Mr Piketty after a year and a half selling as a great victory. Congratulations. We have had a hearing one and a half years after a legislative proposal that everyone knows will never be approved here. Do you really think that anything has changed since yesterday about the fact that you are crying out all alone in the desert? While you have been giving us months of consideration to a proposal that has zero support here in Parliament, my party, the sp.a, together with six other parties, signed a government agreement with substantial additional investment less than five months ago. These include 4,500 additional staff in the care sector, 6 per cent salary surcharge, an additional €2 billion for health care, €2 billion for pensions, additional investment for rail and 1,600 police officers. I can go on like this. We have agreed that we will launch a major fiscal reform aimed at simplicity, efficiency and justice. We agreed that multinationals should pay a minimum tax, and so should the Googles, the Amazons, the Facebooks and the Apples. We have agreed that we will place a turbo in the fight against tax fraud. We have already arranged for the tax authorities to have access to the balances of domestic accounts. Soon we will be voting on a draft law that will put an end to tax regularisation. You have the courage to come here and accuse us of not changing anything since the previous legislature. However, I can make the list even longer, if you wish. Today we propose a next realization of our coalition, the impact tax. There will be an additional €400 million per year for health care paid by the richest. That is a very concrete and rapid step forward. Mr Van Hees, where nothing has really changed compared to the period under the Swedish Government, is your party's position. It is a position of ineffective opposition language.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u116	Mr Vandebroucke, I would like to respond to some of your remarks. If you say I didn't make a coherent speech, you didn't listen carefully. I have said that the PS and sp.a in this country determine fiscal policy. I have quoted a number of examples, such as the tobin tax, but also Paul Magnette's interview, in which he has clearly already outlined a third version of the securities tax. As far as the anti-abuse clause is concerned, I have said that the Socialists are effectively biting the sand in this area. You insisted on strict anti-abuse provisions, but what we get in this bill is actually pure Kafka. After all, for the 23 product branch, you are going to prohibit the charging of the costs. I don't know what economic model you're living in, but if those companies make extra costs, they're just going to pass them on to the customers. That is an economic law, one can ignore it from a doctrinary socialist point of view, but it remains a fact. Furthermore, Flemish interest has no lessons at all about being social from the socialists. Let me give you an example. At best, this tax will yield EUR 400 million for social security. The living wages of non-Belgen costs to social security alone EUR 500 million. Well, I dare leave here and ask the modal Flemings what social model they prefer. Your social model, whereby you impose a tax of 400 million euros that will be paid indirectly by the small saver and also the hard-working entrepreneur in this country and then eventually hand out 500 million euros to the rest of the world. Or the Flemish Interest Model, where we say: no tax of EUR 400 million, but we also do not distribute the EUR 500 million to the rest of the world. We choose "first our people." Well, if you put that question to the modal Flemings, I am sure they will prefer the social model of Flemish Interest. That is what we saw in the election results on 26 May. That is socialism, Mr Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u117	Mr Vandenbroucke, I will answer you. I can understand your nervousness. Indeed, you are telling me that I am using false arguments to attack the account-title tax. The arguments I use are in particular those of your party, which were used at the time against the Michel government's account-title tax. If these arguments were wrong – but I think they are not, I think they are right – these are your arguments, in particular, that I used. You are telling us that the PTB weighs zero in this House. But you, your party, the left-wing parties, for how much did they weigh in this account-title tax? To redo a 0.15% tax on securities accounts alone, just like the Michel government's security account tax was 0.15% on securities accounts alone, how much did you weigh? You weighed zero. You, not only are you in the government, but in addition, even in the government, you weigh zero. It's pretty grieving! How did your party vote, Mr. Vandenbroucke, on the Michel government's account-title tax? Have you voted for this 0.15%, this progress, this million euros? You say it's huge. How did your party vote on this Michel government title tax? He voted against. You voted against the Michel government's security account tax. On this tax of 0.15 % only on securities accounts. And today you say: "Great victory! We got 0.15% tax on securities accounts only!" It's wonderful, Mr. Vandenbroucke. It's really wonderful. You're telling us it's wrong to say that you're going to charge the little savers. What is serious with the history of branch 23, is the cause, the reason why this tax will affect small savers. It's actually to save the richest, billionaires, those who have hundreds of millions. Your legal gas plant avoids taxing them. You're saying we're going to tax the security accounts rather than the holders of the security accounts. It is the consequence of this that impacts small savers. That is what is very serious. You touch the little savers to save the richest, and then you say: "It's not our fault, it's the insurers' fault! You have to attack the insurers, the insurance companies. They're the bad guys!" But that's your tax. You're the one doing this. Don't put the blame on the others! I don't like big insurance companies. They are not my friends, but I am not going to accuse them of something that is the responsibility of the government. It is the responsibility of this government to charge the incumbents of branch 23 to save the richest. Don't find any falsifiers! There's Mr. Piedboeuf's question that you came back to saying that 400 million is a lot and that the evidence is that this is the amount of the White Blouse Fund. Excuse me, Mr Piedboeuf, the White Blouses Fund, you thought it was a lot because you voted against it when we came with the White Blouses Fund Amendment. Don't deny reality! It was a day when white blouses showed up on the street. We were dealing with the provisional twelfths. We came with the White Blouses Fund Amendment. The MR voted against. It's a reality. Do you want to deny reality?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u118	Mr Van Hees, this is a personal fact, as usual! In the Committee on Finance, it is the same thing every week, and I have to correct Mr. Van Hees. What have we done? We voted for the White Blouse Fund. But what White Blouse Fund have we voted for? We voted for the White Blouses Fund, which was a consensus, because we've improved your "truth" that was wrong! That's it!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u119	Mr Vermeersch, I would advise you not to spend any more time looking for who has had what influence and who would have made a compromise or who is the great winner. What we are approving today is no more or less than the implementation of the coalition agreement. That's a seven-party victory. Seven parties have agreed and implement it within five months. In your world, no compromises are made, no cooperation is made with others to achieve anything. That's what this is about. Stop looking for who got where. There's no point in that. Mr Van Hees, you are increasingly charging yourself in your role as spokesman for Assuralia. That's unbelievable. It is a government agreement with an additional 2 billion for pensions, an additional 2 billion for care, an additional 1 billion for security. It is a government agreement that has already led the tax authorities to have access to the balances of domestic accounts. It's a coalition agreement that makes us stop tax regularization after the crocus holiday. I know one thing: after today, the counter sp.a-PVDA is at 400 million-0. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u120	Mr Vandenbroucke, I see that you are obliged to leave the discussion on the tax on securities accounts because of a lack of arguments about the tax itself! I could talk to you about bank secrecy, a Belgian specificity, which does not exist anywhere else. The Belgian tax authorities are better informed about the contents of bank accounts abroad than about those in Belgium. I could also tell you about the 5,000 jobs of civil servants that we are going to abolish under this government. But here we are now discussing the tax on securities accounts, not the balance sheet of the whole government policy! Mr Piedboeuf, you voted against the White Blouse Fund. How did this happen? You gave your version. I'll give you mine that matches the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u121	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u122	I understand you feel uncomfortable. Yes, after that, you voted! What happened at the time of the White Blouse Fund? On that day, there was a social movement. The white blouses were in action on the street, demanding for months additional means. The PTB introduced this amendment with the actors on the ground, true heroes, who were forcing and who, through their pressure, ripped this fund out. We brought the amendment in line with their demands. A majority has been formed in the House. You were in the minority who opposed the White Blouse Fund. After that, since it was necessary to merge the fund into a law, you entered into reality and agreed to implement the White Blouse Fund. You were a minority, but you were in the process of finally voting by the majority. But in the beginning, it was for a reason of principle that you were against. I still remember Mrs Wilmès exclaiming that 400 million was too much! You didn't want to give that money in the name of budgetary rigour. You can reinvent history today, but that's the reality! Is this $400 million a lot? Yes, for you at the time when you voted against it, it was a lot. Mrs Wilmès looked great! But in absolute terms, $400 million represents 0.36% of federal tax revenues. It's a drop of water in relation to total spending. If it is said that the contribution of the richest, or more precisely of some of the richest, not the richest, is 0.36% and that the workers and the population will pay the remaining 99%, it is not really much. It's not much if you look at things that way. You also tell us that the White Blouse Fund was not funded and that it was the security account tax that financed the White Blouse Fund that was not funded. This is not true because a fund has been set up and the amount of EUR 400 million is levied on the tax of natural persons. It was therefore funded. Moreover, if I follow your logic, Mr. Piedboeuf, what then does the security account tax fund? Nothing! It finances a health measure that was already in place before that government was in place. So you see how absurd what you say is, Mr Piedboeuf! I note that the left had voted against or had abstained, according to the parties, on this tax on securities accounts and that these parties today defend some of them more enthusiastically than others. I notice that, however, because some parties are more cautious about the issue. Mr Vandenbroucke, your weight in this tax is indeed zero because you are doing exactly what the neoliberal Johan Van Overtveldt had done under the previous government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u123	Madam President, I am not really sure that the citizens who are listening to us and who are watching us will have seen more clearly in the positioning of each other, because these permanent verbal contests have little to do with the substance of the matter before us. We had ample opportunity in committee to comment on this bill at first reading and second reading. For our part, we have pointed out that we support the principle of the contribution of the widest shoulders to a goal of health care funding. Let me say a short retroact: we all remember that on February 7, 2018, the MR-N-VA-CD&V-Open Vld majority voted a first law introducing a tax on securities accounts, at the initiative of the Michel government. Very quickly, legal hang-ups emulated this text, which was attacked before the Constitutional Court, before being simply cancelled. The objections raised were not small because they referred to differential treatment according to the nature of the assets within the same securities account, an arbitrary threshold of EUR 500 000 per taxpayer in order to determine who was liable for the tax or who was not liable for it, or the difference in treatment between natural persons and legal persons. We have noted that the current majority has reviewed its copy, studied its legal record well – we hope, at least – and tried to provide a methodical response to the criticisms that had been raised by the Constitutional Court. Thus, it is no longer the citizen holding 500,000 euros on a security account that generates the tax, but the value of the security account itself. Similarly, all assets taken from a securities account will be taxed tomorrow, and any person, whether natural or legal, will be taxed tomorrow. In short, we stress once again that the government has successfully overturned its legal record and has tried to put every chance on its side so that this tax is not once again invalidated. And yet, by doing so, the government has clearly chosen, since it has sacrificed fairness and tax justice on the altar of legality. Indeed, as we had the opportunity to raise it in committee, it is difficult for us to admit that, tomorrow, small shareholders holding a share of a securities account through a branch 23 type insurance will be taxed more than a single shareholder holding a securities account with a value of less than one million euros. Unfortunately, that will be the case. If we take the example of a branch 23 through which 200 customers hold a securities account with a cumulative value of 2 million euros, these small shareholders each holding 10,000 euros will be subject to the tax proposed this evening, even though the sole holders of a securities account of 990,000 euros will not be affected. This obviously does not make sense and violates the principles of equity and social justice that are dear to the CDH. I know that you repeated that the insurer was not obliged to pass on. Of course, there is no obligation to do anything, but insurance has already announced that it will do so at the tax rate. In short, small savers will be affected. In the name of the principle of legality, of course, it was not possible to find a solution to extract these small savers from the scope of the tax. The same applies to holders of multiple securities accounts whose individual value is less than EUR 1 million, but whose sum is far more than that amount, and who will not be taxed. In the same way, owners in individual divisions – which can be forced – of a securities account of more than one million and whose share may be – if many – far less than that amount, will nevertheless be taxed. On the other hand, the largest assets held in a nominal manner will, for their part, completely escape the scope of this tax. This is what made us call it "too much" - because of branch 23 - and "too little" - because of the nominative shares held by large fortunes. For all these reasons, which I have had the opportunity to explain to a great extent in committee – I am not going to make things go on because you have, I think, understood well – we are opposed to a tax which seems to reassure you in terms of legality but which we consider unfair, unfair and which may one day become economically dangerous. These are political options that you have taken to provide legal shelter, but we believe that you have breached other important principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let us talk about the substance. I'm also making a quick history. In February 2018, the former government introduced this famous annual tax of 0.15 % due by persons holding one or more securities accounts in Belgium or abroad, with a threshold of 500 000 euros. In October 2019, the Constitutional Court annulled this text introducing the first draft of the securities tax. It was found that the tax did not respect the constitutional principle of equality and non-discrimination. The question that we have to ask ourselves today is this: will the bill that is being put to the vote in this chamber suffer the same fate? Is the legal certainty of taxpayers met with this new version of the text? Unfortunately, it is probable that no. The Constitutional Court had annulled the previous version of the tax without retroactive effect. In other words, holders of securities accounts who had honoured themselves with the payment of the tax will never be able to recover the amounts paid on the basis of unconstitutional legislation. There is no doubt that proceedings will be brought against the new security account tax. We will therefore be relatively soon determined on his future. On the substance of the case, we can make several criticisms. First, we still find that nominative actions are excluded from the scope of the tax; whereas the Constitutional Court had previously based its judgment of annulment on the ground that by excluding nominative titles, the first version of the text did not respect the constitutional principle of equality and non-discrimination. The new government is again making exactly the same mistake. If the objective of the security account tax is to obtain the largest contribution from the famous "broadest shoulders" – an objective that one can obviously share – it must be noted that unfortunately it will not be met by allowing many great fortunes to escape the payment of the tax. Secondly, in the case of investment funds held through branch 23 standard life insurance, while it is true that the holder will not be subject to the tax if the tax threshold is not met, it is not true that smaller taxpayers will escape the consequences of the tax. Indeed, the insurer or investment agency that manages these funds quickly reaches the one million euro threshold and, ultimately, will be taxed. On the understanding that many amounts are grouped into a single securities account, there is no doubt that the payment of the tax will be passed on to the individual beneficiaries of this type of investment, in particular through management fees. In practice and very concretely, all individuals who invest in a branch 23 product will indirectly pay the tax, including those who have invested very little in the fund – a few thousand euros, for example. Another problem can be highlighted. It relates to investment funds linked to a Luxembourg insurance contract which is exempt from tax. If the Luxembourg insurance companies do not have a Belgian securities account, they will not be subject to the latter. In the same vein, Belgian investors will not be taxed directly on the Luxembourg branch 23 funds. It is easy to see that the deeper we dig, the more we see that we are far from the principle of equality and non-discrimination between taxpayers. I would also like to return to an issue that has already been raised by some of my colleagues and which relates to the EUR 1 million threshold. You will not disagree that, like any measure introducing a tax threshold, the establishment of a level beyond which a taxpayer is or is not taxed is totally arbitrary. Indeed, what is the government's justification for automatically imposing securities accounts in excess of one million euros? According to the Minister, this threshold was set to exclude the application of the security account tax without significant value. In other words, the holder of a securities account with a value of EUR 995,000 is exempt from taxation because the value of his portfolio is insignificant. On the other hand, several co-owners of the same securities account with a value of more than EUR 1 million will be automatically taxed and will fall within the scope of this measure. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we can again easily see that by introducing a tax threshold of EUR 1 million, the principles of equality and non-discrimination between taxpayers are not met. Finally, with the anti-abuse provision in the bill, the government anticipates that legal acts that the administration demonstrates to be an abuse of tax will not be enforceable against the administration. However, if we look at the opinion of the Council of State which we fully share, the objectives of such an anti-abuse provision are not clear. If such an anti-abuse measure does not have a clear objective, there is a concern that it will be seen as violating European standards on the free movement of capital. Since such a measure could be challenged, since the anti-abuse provision is, in principle, the only bulwark to tax avoidance, this tax will be emptied of its primary objective of ensuring solidarity with the widest shoulders. Moreover, in its opinion, the Council of State considers that such an anti-abuse measure without clear objectives will result in a difference in treatment between those who will have the opportunity and the means to avoid taxation, as usual, by the mechanism of splitting their securities accounts, and those who do not. This anti-abuse provision should therefore be thoroughly reviewed, taking into account other criticisms in parallel. In conclusion, Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as you will understand, our group will not support the bill introducing a tax on securities accounts, because of its lack of tax justice and because of what remains, despite real work, genuine legal frailties.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u125	Madam President, I would like to recall the general approach in which this new contribution, which is that of alternative funding for social security, forms part of this new contribution. It was found that social contributions from labour income, whether paid by employers or workers, were not sufficient to balance social security accounts. Successive governments have tried to find solutions: balance and alternative financing, i.e. tax levies for the refinancing of social security. A number of taxes on consumption saw a share of their revenues finance social security, but also a number of levies on capital income, in particular the household allowance. I had a 15% discount on furniture not so long ago and it is now 30%. Not so long ago, the furniture discount was worth just over 2 billion euros. This year, even if it is not significant given the health crisis, we will be at cruising speed beyond 4 billion. We can therefore consider that we have moved progressively towards doubling the income of capital, with a partial allocation to the financing of social security. The government agreement on this new levy is explicit. This 400 million, perhaps more, will be allocated to health care funding. We therefore continue our efforts over the past several years to try to find solutions that allow us to ensure that every citizen of our country has access to social protections, in particular health care. Social security is much broader than health care alone, although it is a very substantial part of it. Then, of course, we can have somewhat different approaches to the state of capital, capital or assets. The increased regionalisation of taxation does not always help to make it very clear. Moreover, there has been a lot of confusion in this debate between levies on the transfer of capital (inheritance duties, registration fees which, as you know, are quite substantial too) and taxes which are based on capital, for example the movable prepayment which the French call the property tax, Mr Piketty has recalled, and which are of regional competence but which feed the communes. This is usually one of the two most important local government revenues. When you look at the tax memento available on the FPS Finances website, Docufin, which is indeed very well done – I hope it will still be accessible as it is at present – you have the details of all the compulsory levies that characterize our tax panorama in Belgium. This is where we see that what the government is doing today is not very different from what other governments have done before. For legal reasons, he chose the vehicle for the subscription fee. It's not something new. For example, there is the tax on collective investment funds with a very low rate but on a particularly broad basis. SICAVs, SICAFIs, all that makes up collective investment undertakings represent a particularly high total capitalisation. With this sample, we have a relatively stable recipe. When we add up all this, we then arrive at a number of percentage points in GDP of what is today as levies both on capital and on the transfer of capital. We certainly do not reach what is observed in other countries that are perhaps a little more advanced than we are in terms of tax justice, but it is a value judgment that we are not obliged to share. At the same time, we are not below what prevails today in our main neighbours, including France, which has suffered a tax on major assets that President Macron has decided to reduce to its simplest expression by limiting it to land, to real estate, while we are taking the opposite step here. We are making a significant start in addition to things that already exist on financial assets. And I refer to a report from the National Bank. The analysis of the National Bank can of course be denied or contradicted, but this report exists. It is known that this financial asset is concentrated in the highest deciles. In other words, having securities accounts is not usually the case of people with low incomes, especially social beneficiaries, wage earners with low wages, etc., since you only get securities accounts when you know how to generate a certain level of savings, that is, when you have a salary that is beyond your basic needs or when you have inherited a fortune or when you have prospered in an economic activity. In general, this is concentrated, as the National Bank explains very well, in the highest deciles. We will indeed see what will happen and whether some will do the right calculation to quarrel over this mechanism, the risk being that there will be an even less favourable one. Thus, some may have a prudential analysis to do about what they have to gain from certain legal procedures. But at the same time, I consider that 400 million euros is not nothing. This will make it possible to finance health care not entirely but substantially. That is what the history of taxation teaches us. I was talking earlier about a household discount which was not so long ago of 15% and which is now 30%. We know that in the area of taxation in Belgium, it is a matter of step. In 1962, there was a tax reform led by a socialist-participated government: the famous shift from cedular taxes to income globalization with a progressive scale per tranche. We know what happened in 1980 with the deglobalization of financial revenues. However, today, one can consider that there is a form of repair since, with a rate of 30% on the furniture discount, we are beyond the average rate at the PPI that can be located around 24 or 25%. That's what I wanted to tell you, minister. We will vote for this levy and, of course, we will meet together to discuss other tax issues with you, because there is obviously a lot of work to be done, as you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all the comments you have made. I believe that at the two committee meetings devoted to the discussion of the draft, we have already answered many questions, refuted concerns and explained specific technical points. Mr Donné, you say that we do not want to cooperate, but in committee we have always given as comprehensive a reply as possible to your technical comments, which indicates that we also wanted to discuss this draft law openly in committee. I have already explained in committee that we did not accept your amendments, because they are not useful and appropriate, and all the more so because we want to ensure that the draft law, which is legally and technically difficult, remains in place at the end of the journey. Mr Vermeersch, I will not go into specific points in your speech. In any case, I expected you to take the word'resurrection' in your mouth. It seems to me that your speech is a resurrection of what you said in committee. Anyway, I am pleased with that, because that gives me the opportunity to refute the fact that there would be a resurrection. Should this be a resurrection, it would mean that we would simply refer the texts that were destroyed by the Constitutional Court back to the committee and have them voted on. That didn't happen. Our text is based on a very different vision than that of the destroyed tax. If we do name it with a word from that vocabulary, then I think we can call it a genesis, the birth of a new law, which in my view is a more enjoyable event. I will conclude, Madam President. Many Members have said that they have greatly appreciated the way in which we have dealt with the dossier. We have also paid a great deal of attention to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, to which we are trying to answer. We have also responded to the comments of the Council of State. In this way, we have made every effort to achieve the agreements of the coalition agreement, with the draft law that we have tabled in this House. It was a difficult and very technical dossier and it is appropriate to thank my cabinet, the administration of the FPS Finance and also all those who have helped to bring it to a successful conclusion. I would particularly like to thank the tractor of the project, Kenneth Vyncke. He's in the visitors' gallery somewhere. He has fast-tracked the project, paying particular attention to legal stability and technical correctness. Another word of thanks to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u127	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u128	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1708/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1708/7) The bill has 21 clauses. The draft law has 21 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip087x.u129	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting Thursday, February 11, 2021 at 9 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 11 February 2021 at 9 p.m.
