ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u1	Mr President, Madam Minister, as far as the German Central Translation Service is concerned, it is under your supervision the office responsible for the official translators to the German language. It is often used by the entire Federal Public Services, which, of course, creates a high workload for translators in Malmedy. Unfortunately – and I think you know – a certain backlog has to be found so that many pieces of legislation are simply not available in German. In the face of these masses of demands from the various SPFs – and I am not just talking about the legal texts that are the subject of a prioritisation by the Government of the German-speaking Community – a strengthening of the translators seems necessary in any case, or at least an optimisation of the translators available within the various SPFs. Here's an idea. My question is, therefore, the following, Madam Minister. What can you tell us about the workload of the above-mentioned service? How does collaboration take place between the translation service and the different SPFs in terms of translations? Are there plans to increase staff or other acquisitions to address the many requests for translations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u2	Dear colleague Jadin, the website of the German Central Translation Service (SCTA) allows for immediate consultation of the German translation of some 5,095 federal standards, which represent the equivalent of 77,220 pages A4. These legal and parliamentary texts are made available to citizens and institutions in a consolidated form. It can therefore be said that a large part of the federal standards representing an interest in German-speaking citizens and institutions is directly available to any interested person. The SCTA is explicitly responsible for the German translation of laws. When the SCTA translates regulatory texts from other FPS and federal institutions, pursuant to Article 56(2) of the Coordinated Acts of July 18, 1966, it does so on the basis of agreements concluded with these departments. However, they remain responsible for German translation, regulatory texts and other communications. They must provide the necessary resources to that end. To do so, they can more widely solicit the services of the SCTA for remuneration or arrange for these translations themselves. With regard to the workload figures for the year 2020, I invite you to put this question in writing. At present, almost all of these CFOs and federal institutions have entered into an agreement. On this basis, the SCTA prepares German translations of the royal decrees and ministerial decrees and publishes them to the Belgian Moniteur in execution of the lists of decrees to be translated into German, according to their interest for the inhabitants of the German-speaking region and giving priority to the main texts. These lists shall be adopted by the competent Minister on the advice of the Government of the German-speaking Community. As of January 1, 2021, there were 28 officers and 21.75 FTEs. As of 1 January 2020, these figures amounted to 27 officers for 20 FTEs. Three statutory recruitments at level A were carried out in 2020. There were two departures. A procedure for the recruitment of level B translators is currently under preparation. The TBSA uses a powerful text recognition tool to produce these translations, which has doubled production by full-time equivalent in ten years. In 2020, the SCTA acquired an upgrade to this text recognition tool that allows it to be paired with intelligent machine translation software. The implementation of this software has been ongoing since autumn. It is expected that productivity per full-time equivalent will eventually increase by some 15%. There are no other planned acquisitions at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u3	Madam Minister, first of all thank you for explaining to me the functioning of the SCTA, but I knew it, and I also know the Collas Act, which at one point allowed an acceleration in relation to the constitutional need to proceed with the translation of German-language legislation within a reasonable time. I note a very positive point, Madam Minister. Considerable efforts appear to have been made with regard to tools to increase the effectiveness of translation. I hear it's 15%. That's it already. On the other hand, compared to the other questions I have asked, I have not heard an answer. These are not just requests in legislative terms, and as you yourself have said, Madam Minister, they are also often requests in procedural terms. This may also be requests for forms to be translated, which may be issued by the various FPSs who may not have sufficient translators within their services. This multiplies the tasks to which this service, which I know very well, must work. My question was and remains: how could we in the future be a little better, with the cooperation of the German-speaking Community, which is very open on this subject, to optimize and strengthen this capacity even more? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u4	Madam Minister, the Weser-Göhl police zone, which is a multi-municipal area, and the federal police want to build a new police building to house the federal police services as well as those of the local police. To this end, numerous preparatory meetings have already taken place with the Régie des Bâtiments, the SPF Intérieur, the City of Eupen and the various municipal officials. After several months of research, an appropriate field appears to have been found. However, to acquire this land, it will be necessary to expropriate it. The acquisition committee has already been charged with preparing for the expropriation of the land in question. This is a first in Belgium, since expropriation will have an interest both in the federal police and in the local police. In order to guarantee the legal basis of such (...), can you tell me whether you are the one responsible for granting an expropriation order for the multi-municipal police zone? If not, who would be competent to do so? It's a real puzzle! Have there been any exchanges to that effect with the Acquisition Committee and the Régie des Bâtiments? What will be the continuation of this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u5	Mrs Jadin, I would like to refer you to my colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, who is competent to answer both of your questions. Expropriation of land for the cohabitation project is, of course, a critical step for the continuation of the project. However, the various stakeholders on the file, both at federal and local level, continue to work in parallel on the feasibility study to determine the outline of the project. This outline will then be submitted to the competent authorities for permits. As these steps have been completed, it will be possible to finalize the specifications, submit the project to the Council of Ministers for validation, publication of the contract and move on to the implementation phase of the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u6	Minister, thank you for showing me the procedure to follow. I admit that I know this file well enough for working at the local level and at other levels as well. This is indeed a very important issue. If the Inland FPS could at that time prove competent to proceed in the same way (a single form) to this expropriation, it would really make it easier for us to do so. That was the subject of my question, and I did not receive an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u7	Minister, when the relief zones were reformed, the provinces were divided into several relief zones. After years, some areas have shown good work and the various relief services have been fully integrated into this new regime. Others are still looking for the optimal structure and are constantly thinking about how to improve their services. My questions are technical. To this end, is it possible to divide into rescue zones with a view to regrouping with other already existing areas in order to improve the effectiveness of the service provided to the citizen? If so, on what legal basis could this be done? What steps should be taken in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u8	Mrs Jadin, the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 provides that the delimitation of the emergency zones is to be determined by Royal Decree. However, this decision is taken on the proposal of the Provincial Area Advisory Committee. It is therefore all the communes of the province united within this Advisory Committee that give advice to the King on the territorial division of the province into relief zones. An increase in the number of relief areas would run counter to the spirit of reform. It follows from the 2006 Paulus Commission report that scaling up is one of the main lines of fire service reform. Parliament shares the same vision expressed both at the time of the adoption of the law of 15 May 2007 on civil security and at the time of its amendment in March 2018 when specific provisions regulating the merger of emergency zones were inserted into the law. The possibility for rescue zones to merge is expressly provided for in the law. With regard to a revision of the current areas which would not lead to an increase in the number of areas as currently laid down by the Royal Decree of 2 February 2009, this decision is not a matter for the government but for the Provincial Advisory Committee. This committee is composed of all the mayors of all the communes of the province. It may only deliberate if at least half of its members are present when it is summoned to a file for the first time. The Advisory Committee renders its opinions by a simple majority. However, a minority note may be attached to the file by any member.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u9	Minister, thank you for all these elements of your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u10	Mr President, Minister, in March 2020, an Amnesty International poll conducted in collaboration with SOS Viol revealed that nearly one in two Belgians has already been exposed to at least one form of sexual violence, with women and young people overrepresented. The survey also revealed that 53 per cent of cases of rape were discontinued. A study carried out in 2019 at the request of the European Commission on the handling of rape cases by the Belgian courts highlighted the difficulties in identifying the perpetrators. The press recently reported an increase in rape reports at the Sexual Violence Care Centres (SVPCs) in Brussels, Liège and Ghent between April and August 2020. Minister, my questions are as follows. First, can we have your feedback on the means available to the police to identify the perpetrators of rape. Secondly, what progress are you working on? Third, the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Equal Opportunities and Diversity recently announced the creation of new CVPS in Charleroi, Antwerp and Louvain. Are initiatives for collaboration between CVPS and police services being considered? In advance, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u11	Mr President, Mr Senesael, your first question is a judicial one. The problem of rape is of course still a matter of concern and, in this spirit, it is appropriate to mention the Family Justice Centers, whose objective is the interdisciplinary approach of victims and facts. The primary objective is to avoid secondary victimization and to create a good basis for the management and restoration of confidence in their environment. The way victims are treated and the environment for doing so will contribute to better findings and statements as victims will feel more supportive and therefore more inclined to share with the police what they have experienced. The aim is to better identify the perpetrators. In the meantime, functional training has been developed within the police services to train customs inspectors who will work in the centres. They will carry out their investigative tasks in a specialized manner, including the care of victims. Funding is also provided for video hearings. Efforts are also being made to ensure a thorough coordination of the police component in the centres and to train reference persons who are an important link in the dialogue with the prosecution service. With a view to developing a model for the centres, scientific research has recently been launched. The research funded by the Flemish government is carried out by the Resilient People Centre of Expertise at UC Leuven-Limburg High School and by Idea Consult for a period of one year. The extension of these centres is not only my responsibility, but it turns out that these centres are producing good results. We should seriously consider these options.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u12	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers and for the attention you have paid to this question and to this particular issue. I would also like to highlight the efforts that have already been made. However, this issue remains sensitive, particularly during this period of co-vid. We can therefore only invite you to continue the efforts made in this area. As you noted at the outset of your response, I will no longer turn to the minister concerned with regard to the judicial aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u13	Mr President, Minister, Europol has just issued an alert regarding the increase in sales of fake PCR tests. Several suspects have recently been arrested because they offered this service in neighbouring countries. Due to travel restrictions, all travellers are therefore receptive to these false negative test certificates. At the Brussels-National airport, between three and five false papers of this test are detected each week. But it is probably only the visible part of the iceberg, because it is extremely difficult to identify these false certificates. Therefore, there are simply no official and standardized documents for this certificate, which differs according to the laboratories. Minister, are you aware of this situation? Have sellers of fake PCR tests ever been arrested in Belgium? If so, how many? How can we combat this phenomenon? Would uniformity of results be a good way forward?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u14	Colleague Jadin, according to the information in my possession, it appears that no one has yet been arrested for selling false test kits, or for selling false certificates. However, I am of course of the opinion that the fight against the phenomenon of false test kits requires a proactive approach, such as internet testing and targeted search for information about these practices. My services are aware of this problem and are closely following the problem of counterfeit tests and counterfeit vaccines. They are also in consultation with the public health authorities to examine the possibility of working with a uniform certificate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u15	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u16	Madam Minister, on Friday 11 December the Governor of Limburg invited the Members of Parliament concerned to a meeting with the King's Attorney and the Director of the Federal Judicial Police. I saw yesterday that you also received an invitation from the governor. It made it clear to us that you and the Minister of Justice want to put the fight against organised crime, in particular drug crime, back on the agenda. Limburg has been leading the way for many years in the treatment of large-scale international dossiers as well as in the development of new technologies that improve the quality and efficiency of the research approach. From the meeting I especially remembered that the heavyweights in the cocaine trade all too often appear to be in Limburg and besides the Netherlands also houses top producers of synthetic drugs in the province of Limburg. It was pointed out that the Limburg public services are fighting unequally against that form of crime, given their capacity and financial resources. The annual criminal turnover in the Limburg synthetic drug scene alone is estimated to be at least EUR 1 billion, and it is estimated that it will also easily take EUR 1 billion out of cocaine. For comparison, the annual budget of all Limburg police forces together amounts to over 200 million euros. It can be concluded that the province of Limburg is faced with criminal organisations with far more financial resources than the governments, which are supposed to tackle them. For example, Limburg would not be the last place in the ranking of capacity, both with the federal judicial police and with the public prosecutor. Can you confirm that the resources for combating organised crime are too low? Have you already contacted those involved in response to the emergency call for additional capacity? I would like to have some more explanation of the figures I have quoted. Finally, what are your future plans to tackle organised crime? Can you give a concrete timing of the steps you wish to take? Perhaps your visit yesterday was a start to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u17	Mr Moyaers, an effective and efficient fight against organised crime can only be achieved through an integrated and comprehensive approach. This means that there must be good cooperation between local and federal police, including on the exchange of information and tasks between them. In addition, the principles of reinforced governance should be applied and proper consultation between the authorities concerned is necessary. Yesterday, I discussed exactly how we can strengthen administrative enforcement by local authorities. I note that the levers for this are present in the province of Limburg and that they also allow to detect and dismantle certain forms of high-threshold organised and large-scale crime. In addition, it is, of course, important that the necessary means of doing so are and remain in place. Several initiatives to scale up have already been taken by local police forces. I can only support that, because they increase efficiency and service. I also intend to review the so-called KUL standard for the whole territory. This must demonstrate the need for additional resources in the province of Limburg. This is not a simple exercise, which we must tackle very carefully. In any case, the necessary preparations are being made for this today. The establishment plan for the FGP was established in 2014. Recently, a total of 450 vacancies were published for the whole of the FGP during two mobility rounds and the deficit in the FGP Limburg can also be reduced. For the future, I will be guided by the strategic plan drawn up by the Director-General of the FGP, in particular DGJ 3.0. This includes several proposals to invest in specialised personnel and material resources. This plan also has a positive impact on the FGP in Limburg. The administrative director-coordinator of Limburg also contributes to the fight against organised crime, including by promoting the approach of the strengthened governance. In this context, my visit to the ARIEC in Limburg yesterday was a very fruitful visit. I have once again been able to identify the possibilities and opportunities such an ARIEC can offer to local mayors and local authorities. I want to build on that and strengthen it. All these initiatives together support the fight against organised crime. The developments today, not only in the province of Limburg but also in the Belgian and international context, mean that the current measures will need to be strengthened and strengthened. The National Security Plan, which will enter into force in 2022, will also be an important lever in this respect. I will ensure that the approach to organised crime will remain one of the top priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Your answer shows that you share the same concerns. An integrated and integrated approach is absolutely necessary. I think it's important that more police zones merge. Today, Limburg counts 14. Some of them are too small-scale to deal with crime properly. I think it's really necessary to scale up. This must certainly be taken into account in the revision of the KUL standard. I also understand that your visit to the ARIEC in Limburg was very fruitful. I hope it was also a very cordial visit, as is customary in Limburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u19	Mr President, I have two questions on this point, namely the first and fourth questions, which I will bring together with your permission. Madam Minister, my first question concerns the preparation of a phenomenon analysis on cybercrime. At the long committee meeting on 10 February, I asked you whether it was part of the planning to increase the capacity of the federal police with the specific mandate to carry out further investigation and a phenomenon analysis. From your answer I learned that it was the intention to focus on a chain-oriented approach from prevention to follow-up, prosecution and aftercare. In your policy statement, you also announced that you want to strengthen operational cybercrime services with the right profiles, expertise and technology. An external candidate call will be launched in March. This already clarified the desire to increase capacity and to focus more on the fight against cybercrime. However, I am not so clear about the layout of a phenomenon analysis. Madam Secretary, is a phenomenon analysis already being carried out today? If so, since when? Is the department conducting the phenomenon analysis sufficiently manned to this end? If not, why is that analysis not yet carried out? Of course, you are not alone in the fight on cybercrime, because that domain is managed together with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice. You spoke of a chain-oriented approach from prevention to follow-up, prosecution and after-care. Which of the links of the chain are specifically provided by you? Are there areas that overlap the powers? Since this type of crime is also closely linked to the financial sector, do you see some quick wins to work together with the Minister of Finance, responsible for the fight against fraud, and to roll out a possible plan of action? My second question is about the shortages at the FCCU, why I saw an article in a newspaper this week. Cybercrime is a pity today, but unfortunately it is no longer possible to think away from our society. While this type of crime has peaked like never before, the federal police are suffering from a serious shortage of specialist investigators, as today only 26 of the 44 seats in the FCCU are occupied. That problem is chronic, because in 2018 only half of that framework was occupied. In addition, the federal police confirm that several regional units, the RCCUs, are also suffering from a shortage of cyber-scanners. People with identical computer training are usually offered a much more attractive wage in the private sector with a lot of additional benefits. Moreover, ICTs who nevertheless opt for a career in the police or in the public administration face the problem of having to choose whether to continue working as police officers or to remain civilian staff. Both choices entail a lot of consequences. You already announced that there is a new recruitment campaign in the making, which you will launch, but you didn't really get into your cards yet. That's why I'm going to ask you the following questions. Can you confirm that the situation in a number of regional CCUs is as pressing as at the FCCU? It's a good thing there's going to be a new recruitment campaign. However, we note that, after three years, the framework could only be strengthened by four units. That's not exactly encouraging. How do you expect to get the framework completed quickly? ICTs are often not interested in a role in public administration. Is it an option, given the importance of this matter, to classify them into a higher salary scale in order to attract strong profiles more easily? Would you consider using ICTs in civilian life in the short term in order to tackle the acute problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u20	Mr. Bombled is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u21	Mr. President, Minister, our police must become an attractive employer to avoid the flight of qualified personnel to other employers. What do you intend to do to increase the attractiveness of functions and positions to ensure the retention of qualified officers within the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU)? In view of the situation we are experiencing today, what actions can you take to deal with this crime? If the figures provided are correct, is it envisaged to recruit specialized staff to fill the shortage in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u22	Mr Moyaers, a phenomenon analysis of cybercrime was already carried out in 2019 as a result of the layout of the National Police Security Image. It was then about computer fakeness, cheating, hacking and sabotage. In 2020 an additional phenomenon analysis was carried out on computer deception but now in relation to scams with or without the Internet, i.e. rather as a capital crime. In addition, since 2018, the Federal Computer Crime Unit has provided an annual report on ransomware with a global and up-to-date picture for our country. This is done in the implementation of a circular from the College of Attorneys General, the COL 09/2017 on the ransomware investigation and prosecution policy. The report is intended for the reference magistrates cybercrime as well as for the police services. The central management of the fight against serious and organised crime, DJSOC, carries out most national strategic analyses of crime phenomena for which it is competent, including cybercrime. However, there are also other, whether or not devolved, executives who have strategic analysts, both at the judicial and administrative level. There is indeed a shortage of strategic analysts at the central management DJSOC. However, the necessary strategic analyses have always been carried out, despite this shortage. At present there are 4 recruitments ongoing, after which 14 out of 15 analysts will be filled. As you rightly point out, the fight against cybercrime is the responsibility of my colleague of justice. As Minister for the Interior, I am responsible for the staff framework as explained just now, but also for the purchase of specialised software for these analyses, for example. The prevention of the phenomenon is, in turn, one of the tasks of the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium, which belongs to the Prime Minister, while online scams are mainly covered by the FPS Economy. The financial sector, which is in fact primarily the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, is already carrying out regular campaigns against cybercrime, obviously in consultation with the other aforementioned partners involved in the phenomenon. Ms. Song, Mr. Moyaers, it is true that the expected capacity of 44 employees has not been reached for several years. However, in order to cope with the growing challenge of cybercrime in the years to come, a positive trend is already noticeable. In 2020, the capacity has increased from 23 to 28 employees and in 2021 the Federal Computer Crime Unit has already welcomed 3 new colleagues. In the near future, four more inspectors will be added. The FCCU of the Central Directorate for Combating Serious and Organized Crime is not the only police department responsible for combating online crime. The Regional Computer Crime Unit (RCCU) of the PJF and the Internet Investigation - Internet Referral Unit of the DJSOC Central Directorate also fulfil their role in this context, as well as some local police areas are also making efforts in this area. In the RCCU, there is also a general lack of capacity, despite regional differences. However, as I said earlier, the Director of the Federal Judicial Police has developed a DGJ 3.0 strategy. The strategy includes the recruitment of 125 IT specialists, some of whom will focus on cybercrime phenomena and problems. Steps have also been taken to recruit administrative CALog staff with specialised IT profiles. More generally, I can tell you that 450 places were opened during the last two phases of mobility. There, too, emphasis was placed on the recruitment of specialised profiles, including forensic ICT profiles, data analysts, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u23	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I would like to hear you say that a phenomenon analysis was already carried out in 2019. That's a good thing. However, I wonder if that is sufficiently known within the local police zones. After all, they themselves ask for such a phenomenon analysis. This is where we need to better coordinate. You have explained what phenomenon analyses have been carried out on. Perhaps it is a good idea to do another specific phenomenon analysis around phishing and whaling, which has recently taken a huge flight and many people have suffered. You are responsible for the personnel framework, that is clear. You indicate that campaigns are being launched through the FPS Economy. In this context, I learned that there is a hotline:meldpunt.belgie.be. However, today there are far too many hotlines: the CCB allows you to pass on suspicious URLs, even with local police, while at hotline.belgie.be too few notifications come in. It is important that a little extra campaign is carried out around it. Coincidentally, this week I got the sad report from my own police area that a record was broken on scams. Of course, it is not everyone's fault to lose that much money, but one person was swindled through Internet fraud for EUR 710,000. That is hallucinating and very serious, but we must not forget that people who lose a few hundred or a thousand euros may be hit much harder than the one person with his 710,000 euros. It is therefore extremely important to be able to make a strong commitment to this and to combat Internet fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u24	Madam Minister, thank you for the information you provided in response to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u25	Mr. Chairman, I had read that there was sometimes a misunderstanding between the missions of the Federal FCCU and those of the RCCUs in the judicial districts. Staff may need more clarity in the respective roles of the two organizations. I thank the minister for her response, which I took in flight.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u26	Mr President, Minister, this follow-up question, following a question I asked on 10 February, concerns a gradual savings made by the police since 2004 and accelerated during the financial crisis in 2008. I would have liked some clarification. Is it an annual linear saving? How much savings have been made since 2004? I have received a very comprehensive reply from you. For the federal donation to the local police it was very clear, but my question actually related much more to the savings within the federal police since 2004. That is why I have tabled an additional question, Madam Secretary. Can you give me, specifically for the federal police, a little more explanation on that saving? Was it an annual linear saving? What is the overall saving since 2004?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u27	Mr President, Mr Moyaers, it can be said that in recent years the federal police budget and its integrated operation have been subject to successive savings in almost all departments of the organisation, with the exception of those of the local police areas. Sensu stricto concerns cumulative savings in the order of at least EUR 190 million over the period 2004-2021. These are successive savings, whether linear or not, which have changed over the past few years. In addition to these savings, the federal police, like the other public administrations, were also confronted with other similar measures, such as non-indexation, administrative blocking and other measures with an impact on the structural standard. Some of the savings were broadly offset by increases in appropriations, whether structural or not. As far as the federal police are concerned, these additional appropriations were usually granted for new, additional assignments. Overall, between 2004 and 2021, the federal police budget was not able to keep pace with the evolution of the overall price level, let alone with the level of prosperity expressed in the evolution of GDP. The context of the increase in public spending in recent years compared to GDP reinforces the observed relative decline in federal police budget. There has also been a difference in treatment between federal police and local police since 2004. The federal donations to the local police are not subject to the same savings. This distortion has put increasing pressure on the police's integrated operation. This will also be addressed in the State-General of the Police and in the review of the funding of the local police. The structural under-financing of the federal police is widely recognised. For this reason, an additional credit of EUR 50, 70, 90 and 100 million in the years 2021-2024 is progressively established during this reign, i.e. cumulative EUR 690 million over the entire period. This budget injection will more than compensate for the limited overall linear savings of 0.89% and will, of course, be on top of the normal indexation mechanism. In this way, in this period of government, a beginning of transformation is already being made in the budget evolution of the federal police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u28	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u29	Mr. President, Minister, the Commissioner General of the Federal Police has just mentioned the possibility of employing CALog personnel for border surveillance or control missions. By doing so, police personnel would be released for other tasks. It would therefore be a good way to combat the shortage of personnel within the federal police force. It would seem that other countries are acting in the same way. Moreover, he would like to hire more civilians for specific positions in the future, without requiring them to go through basic training at the police academy. Minister, what can you tell us about the proposal of the Commissioner General of the Federal Police? Would the deployment of CALOG personnel not have an impact on their initial duties? Would wider recruitment, in terms of civilian career, then be considered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u30	Minister, in view of the lack of candidates, particularly in the north, the Commissioner General of the Federal Police intends to entrust certain tasks to CALOG personnel, in particular for border control at Zaventem airport. This has just been stressed by Mrs Jadin. Minister, what is your position on the fact that CALOG personnel can control airports? Has there been any consultation with trade union organisations to discuss this proposal? If so, what does it show? Does the legislation allow for the assignment of identity checks to CALOG personnel? If this is not the case, do you intend to introduce a bill to amend it? More generally, what measures are envisaged to improve recruitment and increase the attractiveness of the police function, especially in Flanders, where there is a decrease in the number of potential recruits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u31	Madam Minister, as my colleagues have just said, we are indeed seeing a lack of candidates to join the police force, particularly in the north. The Commissioner-General of the Federal Police intends to entrust certain tasks and tasks, particularly in the context of airport border control, to CALOG staff. Minister, what is your opinion on this idea? In the event that this project is successful, how could we consider the training and recruitment of this CALOG staff? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u32	Mr President, if it is good for you, I would like to see my two questions dealt with separately. I would first like to ask my question about CALog and then my question about LPA BRUNAT. It's not exactly the same for me. I don't know what the Minister thinks about that. My questions are both about Zaventem, but they're not one pot of wet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u33	I don't have the Minister's answer on hand. Start with your first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u34	Mr President, I will begin with my first question on CALog and then we will see where we end up. Madam Minister, I will not, of course, repeat what has already been said here by the other speakers. Of course, it cannot all be done that way. A number of matters need to be done before the statutes can be amended. That's why I have the following questions. How should their statute be adapted so that they could carry out the checks? Is this desirable and/or possible in addition to the other tasks they already have to perform? Do you have any idea of the number of CALog staff that can be deployed? If so, would that number be sufficient to fill the current deficits in border controls?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u35	Minister, I am not going to go back to the context already mentioned by my colleagues. I'm just going to remind you of something essential. The CALOGs, if they are important workers in our integrated police force, are not police officers. They are part of civilian and administrative staff, as indicated by their missions, selection procedures and training that are allowed and delivered to them. This proposal made by the Commissioner-General therefore seems problematic in several respects. Madam Minister, like my colleagues, I am concerned about your feeling about this proposal for a CALOG to be made available in the course of its missions. Considering that CALOG agents are not tailorable and corveable at thank you - and fortunately - if you were to follow up on this suggestion, what legislative changes do you envisage with respect to the personnel framework? In fact, the task of entrusting them with police missions must also go hand in hand with training and pay recognition, or even with new selection procedures. Finally, what measures do you intend to take to resolve the fundamental problem which leads to this proposal by the Commissioner General, i.e. the difficulties of recruiting Dutch-speaking police personnel or, possibly, to improve the language skills of all police personnel?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u36	I suggest the Minister respond first. Mrs Goethals, you can of course ask further questions, if you have any further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u37	I'll answer the additional questions later. Colleagues, the use of members of the CaLog is one of the avenues envisaged, among others, in the context of the ongoing global reflection aimed at curbing the recruitment difficulties encountered by the border control service of the aviation police at Brussels-National airport. In concrete terms, this is currently the subject of an in-depth feasibility and timeliness study within the Directorate-General of the Administrative Police, which includes the analysis of any remaining legislative changes. The involvement of trade union organisations and the consideration of practical considerations, such as the recruitment process, will take place in due course. However, a broader debate on the extension of CaLog's powers is not currently on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u38	Minister, the last sentence of your answer reassures me of my questioning. Indeed, we must continue to guarantee not only quality recruitment but also quality training for our police officers. As for your first answer, I understand that this is an exceptional situation which should not see a form of generalisation, including for the control area envisaged at airports and more specifically at Zaventem airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u39	Minister, thank you for that answer. I understand that this is an eventuality in the face of a one-time problem. Additional missions could be granted to CaLog. Why not? I do not disagree, but, as you said, in a framework negotiated with the trade union organisations. Finally, I note that there could be a possible amendment of the legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u40	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer and I agree with the comments of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u41	I thank the Minister for her answers. Colleagues have already replicated enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u42	Madam Minister, you reassure us. Indeed, I am pleased to learn that if this measure were to be taken temporarily, it would be taken in consultation with the trade unions and taking into account the general interest. The CALOGs are essential for our integrated police. In fact, a few weeks ago, the government and, in particular, Mrs Lalieux confirmed this importance by implementing the recognition of the competence bonus in the calculation of the CALOG pensions. This was an important fight. I have no doubt that you will continue to value their skills, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u43	Madam Minister, during the recent hearing on the Chovanec case, the news was shared that DGA has launched a new recruitment campaign for the airport police BRUNAT. Unfortunately, only three candidates volunteered for the 100 seats available. I would have liked to have had a little more clarity about the recruitment campaign. How was this fed? On what media? To which target groups, police schools and police zones? In what time frame? With what budgets? What factors do you attribute to this low turnout? Have the right choices been made here in conducting the recruitment campaign? What more could you possibly have done to ensure a higher turnout? Is it normal for the LPA in Zaventem to find such a low turnout in a recruitment campaign? If so, how has this been handled in the past? How did this campaign respond to possible shortcomings of the past campaigns?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u44	Ms Goethals, the recruitment of future Dutch colleagues is a central focus of the recruitment and selection department of the federal police. Many initiatives are also being taken to attract them within the institution. I am thinking, for example, of the contact days in police schools, including in Ghent, in which 920 people participated. A new day is scheduled for 3 April. In addition to these actions, information sessions are organized every two weeks for 250 people. In addition, on 20 March, the federal police will open the doors wide and virtually for additional information. The participants will not only receive information about the vacancies and selection tests, but will also become acquainted with the various services of the federal police and how these services work. Moreover, recruitment campaigns linked to the employee branding project are spread throughout the year. These are aimed at future Dutch-speaking candidates. These campaigns take place on radio, television and digital advertising boards, but also via social media, such as Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat and LinkedIn. Finally, I can tell you that digital campaigns are also taking place in train and metro stations and that advertising spots are being broadcast in the media. With the new recruitment concept, candidates will also be able to opt directly for the airport police. The idea is for federal police to put the airport police in the spotlight. An attractive workplace can be an asset. There is good news in that regard. After all, Brussels Airport Company has promised a new adapted building for the airport police in the long term. In the meantime, most airport police services will be centralised in the so-called satellite in the course of next year. This is a former terminal which was completely renovated in 2011 and which is already housed in part of the airport police and CEO of BAC and its services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u45	Madam Secretary, unknown is unloved. The airport is a mini-city, an economic hub on a small surface, with a very large audience, but for many people an unknown area. That's also what the unions confirmed to me. We agree on a number of things. Today there is a rather boring picture of the job at the airport police. This must be eliminated by an in-depth recruitment campaign. I hear you're working on it. Boosting the attractiveness of these jobs, of course, always depends on more resources. That's the way it is. If we want to see an improvement in the number of agents and new recruits to be offered at BRUNAT, we will need to be deployed on different fronts. You mentioned that. Any premiums specific to the airport should be distributed in order to obtain a better pool. Premiums must meet the costs of specific training, for which they are not currently reimbursed. The jobs must also be promoted. That's what you said will happen. There is also a need for a review of the recruitment model, which is working very slowly and poorly today. There will need to be sustained investment in relational recruitment. I am pleased that the attractiveness will be enhanced by the allocation of more resources and the new airport building. This dossier has been dragging on for a long time and I am very happy that it is being worked on. Hopefully, this will literally and figuratively build on the airport and the airport staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u46	Debates of the European Parliament 55014171C) by Mr Demon and No. Mr Metsu's 55014193C has been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u47	Minister, the federal police have several decentralized seats. When the judicial districts of Namur and Dinant were merged, the two sites were justified by crime figures. The continuation of the crime section in Dinant was also justified by the rural nature of certain police areas, whose capacity differed from that of urban or semi-urban areas. However, last year, the Judicial Director and the Coordinating Director of the Namibian Federal Police decided to abolish the establishment of the Federal Judicial Police and other federal police services in Dinant. For this district, this represents a significant loss, as well as for the rural police areas that benefited from the specialized services of the federal police, such as the use of the Regional Computer Crime Unit. Minister, it appears that neither you nor the Commissioner General would have given an injunction for this removal of services. Have you, however, been consulted on this decision? If so, have you validated it? What were the reasons for this? Then Dinant's staff now work in Namur. Have the unions been consulted about this move? Finally, the centralization of services in Namur will significantly increase the travel time of police areas, which use the support of the federal police and the provision of certain software. This support may, therefore, be greatly reduced. As a result, police areas are likely to invest in expensive computer programs, such as telephone analysis. Will these unplanned investments be partially funded by specific federal assistance?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u48	Mr Bombled, first of all, let me remind you that the reform and optimisation of the federal police undertaken by my predecessors was aimed at increasing the synergy between the coordinating director and the judicial director. The aim was to strengthen their collaboration, which is based, among other things, on cohabitation as a critical factor for success. The repatriation of the federal police services from Dinant to Namur will reduce the number of units from five to three. At the same time, the aim was to keep Dinant's buildings in compliance with safety and well-being standards. Major investments should be made, although the infrastructure remains very old. Like other boroughs, clustering to Namur is a logical, thoughtful and necessary step towards achieving structural, functional and budgetary optimisation. With regard to the coordination and support directorate, the consolidation of the information and communication service with the borough information hub (CIA) should allow for a better division of tasks among the available staff members who are currently scattered between Namur and Dinant. This grouping will also make it possible to standardise the working methods and strengthen the cohesion of this SICAD/CIA team. With regard to the deconcentrated Federal Judicial Police, the consolidation will allow a rapprochement with the judicial authorities, knowing that since the end of 2018, all the criminal justice of the judicial district has already been consolidated in Namur. This grouping is also intended to facilitate the management of their current staff in two locations and to strengthen a unique PJF-Namur culture. From the beginning of the process in November 2018, trade union organisations have been and continue to be involved, both through a technical working group and through a situational point in the basic consultation committees. The grouping is the subject of ongoing exchanges and communications. With regard to specialized support for police areas, of course, this is still a matter of course. However, current technological advances and their democratisation now allow each local police entity to have the equipment necessary for the day-to-day operation of telephones. In preparing the consolidation, the operational aspect was largely taken into account. The local police chiefs were formally consulted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u49	Madam Minister, thank you for your clarification. I can understand that it is appropriate, as far as possible, to optimize the organization of the federal police in order to avoid duplication. However, account must be taken of certain local specificities, particularly in rural areas where there are small police areas with limited resources, whether in terms of personnel or financial resources. Some decentralization of federal services therefore retains its relevance and usefulness. We will see to the use the functioning of this centralization.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u50	Mr President, Madam Minister, being treated as a buffalo, finding that colleagues refuse to go on patrol with you without any reaction, let alone sanction, is clearly the daily life of some police officers. This was revealed to us in the press of this 17 February, which gave the floor to a former police officer who, according to him, had been a victim for more than 12 years of openly racist speech and behaviour by some colleagues, without any reaction from the hierarchy or other police officers. How can we imagine, Madam Minister, that if such behaviour is common to colleagues, it is not common to our fellow citizens as well? How do you imagine these police officers changing their behaviour when they are in intervention? Do I have to remind you, Madam Minister, of the publication of the video where two police officers made racist remarks? Racism, I repeat again, has no place in our society and a fortiori within our police forces. Let it also be clear – we must not amalgamate – that the vast majority of police officers fully respect both the ethics of their function, but also our democratic values, in particular the aspect of human dignity. However, we must deplore the recurrence and repetition of this kind of attitude. Minister, what action plan do you intend to put in place to identify the perpetrators of such behaviours? Immediate disciplinary action is a priority. Do you intend to ensure that these elements that harm the police, in their image, but also in their function, can no longer have their place in our forces of law and order, and in so doing, ensure that our democracy, our democratic values are preserved? What steps do you intend to take to put a definitive end to this unhealthy atmosphere, which unfortunately seems to exist in a number of places within the law enforcement community? What means and instructions do you intend to give to the disciplinary authorities to effectively combat these behaviours, and against indifference to them? How do you intend to strengthen, in the context of police recruitment, the desire to have a police in the image of our society, with all the richness of its diversity? I refer here to racism, but I could add sexism, homophobia and other forms of hate speech that are totally unacceptable in our democratic state.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u51	Mr President, Mr Laaouej, the police organisation takes every act of racism and discrimination seriously. The Police Code of Ethics makes it clear that there is no room for racism, discriminatory behaviour or remarks in the police services. I ask the hierarchy to always take the necessary disciplinary measures for acts of racism committed by members of the integrated police force and to respect the procedural deadlines. The aim of the integrated police is to ensure that employees are able to interpel each other, to report undesirable behaviour, and that they dare to do so, and that they are able to contact their superiors to report such behaviour. In addition, the system of reporting suspected violations of integrity within the police services will be developed by trusted individuals. I would like to point out that the fight against racism and discrimination plays a significant role in the basic training of police officers. For the police officers already in office, the ongoing training entitled "Holocaust, police and human rights" finds its place alongside others, aimed in particular at combating racism and discrimination in general. In addition, Polarisation offers concrete tools for dialogue within an increasingly polarised society. A la carte training provided by Unia can be arranged on request. In 2019, the Federal Police launched the Respect campaign, where various diversity-related themes are regularly brought to the attention of staff through a poster, article and awareness campaign. These themes are respect for sexual orientation, disability, age difference, school level, gender, multiculturalism and different statutes. I would also like to point out that the directive in the police services is that any act that violates the legal provisions and any breach of professional obligations and ethical and ethical values is subject to judicial or disciplinary action by the internal and external services. All campaigns conducted by the Federal Police Recruitment and Selection Service highlight the diversity of the police, particularly in terms of origin. During recruitment events, this service works to diversify the staff behind the stands. Testimonials from foreign citizens who have made a career with the police are also made available. Diversity is a source of wealth and productivity for me. It is not just a question of determining a communication to attract candidates of foreign origin, but of highlighting an image of the police, which needs this diversity. In conclusion, I would add that an assessment through the diversity lens has already been incorporated into the definition of the public procurement for the new selection tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u52	Madam Minister, thank you for the information you have just given us, which is similar to the information you gave us earlier on a question that had the same purpose and related to the two police officers I mentioned in my question. This clearly shows that my group as a whole and I will have to pay particular attention to this kind of attitude and behaviour. Indeed, what we expect of our police officers is that they respect the oath they make, that is, fidelity to the King, that is to say to your authority, but also obedience to the Constitution and the laws. This means that they, more than others, like the agents of the State in general, must respect these rules. It is therefore possible, Madam Minister, that you may see me repeatedly in this commission to question you if new facts arise. However, I take note of your willingness to act. I take note of the positive elements that you have mentioned. I can only encourage you and you will have our support to realize this will as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u53	Madam Minister, in the week of 11 January, there was an initiative by your colleague, the Minister of Civil Service, concerning the monitoring of the various organisations of the federal government. The results are actually good, since the number of teleworkers is slightly higher than 85 %, of which even a small 60% full-time. A small 15% is therefore present on the work floor, mainly with essential functions where activities cannot be carried out from home. Unfortunately, the FPS Home Office did come out as the worst student of the class, with figures that were significantly different from the other FPS. For example, in your public service, only 64% of telework was carried out and 36% of the staff were actually present at the office in Brussels. According to Sciensano, the workplace remains one of the most dangerous places to be infected with covid. Up to 38% of the clusters were even found in the workplace. It is of course no different in the government, reason enough to continue to oblige and stimulate homework. Madam Secretary, how do you explain the figures on your public service? How many percent of employees in the Home Office are considered to be in an essential function, which cannot therefore be carried out from home? Has this monitoring affected you? If so, which one? Following this monitoring, were additional measures taken to maximise the use of telework? If so, why were they not taken before?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u54	Mrs Goethals, I am somewhat surprised at your question. I also regret its tendentious nature. As you know and as has already been discussed in detail in the Covid Committee and in this committee, the task of the Home Office in dealing with the corona crisis is very special. In any case, security and asylum missions require a large presence on the ground and also at the office. Police communication and information centres, emergency centres 112, civil protection and closed centres all carry out essential tasks in continuous service, which are directly related to the safety of many people. As a result, almost continuous full-time presence on site or in the office is necessary and essential. Only a limited number of administrative staff can do telework. The National Crisis Centre should also be able to operate without restrictions in the context of current crisis management, 24 hours at 24 and 7 days at 7. All functions related to crisis management and BelPIU are necessary and essential, including their support from the horizontal crisis management services. I am thinking, for example, of cleaning up the crisis cells, permanence, logistical and legal support, communication and so on. The services of the governors responsible for emergency planning are also operational in the context of this crisis. So it could be that for those who don't think that through, the teleworking rates seem a priori low compared to the other FPS. However, the figures are strongly influenced by the continuous services and the Crisis Centre, which must remain in place to ensure essential tasks for the population. About 40% of FPS Home Affairs personnel work on a service where the presence on the ground is essential. Your question does, of course, give me the opportunity to express my gratitude to all those people for their exceptional efforts over the last few months in very often non-existent circumstances. As is still the case for the whole of Belgium, telework is compulsory for the other administrative services in Brussels and in the provinces. Thus, only the staff are present at the office to carry out the tasks necessary and essential for the continuity of the service and cannot be performed from home. Our employees are regularly reminded of the guidelines. The presences are also constantly monitored. In the meantime, internal processes have been digitised to the maximum extent possible to limit the presence of staff and contacts on the work floor. Since the beginning of the crisis, all directors have also been updating the business continuity plan and the critical processes have been analysed with a view to determining the priority tasks. That will certainly be followed up further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u55	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. Of course, there are great differences within the FPS. I am very aware of that. It is logical that in certain FPS staff can work more easily at home. However, you have now given a clear answer, including the reasons why. It is nice to get a clarification on the reasons why the differences are so large.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u56	Mr President, Minister, the riots that took place after Ibrahim's commemoration have unfortunately caused a great deal of destruction in our capital. It was decided to set up a task force in order to map these destructions and bring them to justice quickly. The various services involved worked together to identify as many suspects as possible and to allow for further follow-up. We read in the media that this task force has achieved good results and that by mid-February 2021 the detectives had already arrested 14 suspects involved in the riots. The results have been somewhat tempered, but despite this, this can be an important signal to combat the feeling of impunity. I therefore believe that such a task force has the potential to grow strongly and can be a useful tool for the effective punishment of the rioters. Madam Secretary, this is the first time the task force has been operational under your authority. How do you evaluate the work of the Task Force established after the riots of 13 January 2021? What's the status of the task force with his detective work? Is the assignment about to expire or is she still on? Have there been any improvements in the cooperation that could be made and that could certainly be integrated into the functioning of a future task force? How do you see the future of this task force? In what circumstances do you consider it important to set it up or to work together? What steps have you already taken to achieve your proactive and effective approach to this new way of protesting, as promised in your policy statement? What innovations can we expect and at what time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u57	Mr President, Mrs Goethals, local police in Brussels Capital of Ixelles has been working with task forces since 2014, especially after the riots with port workers during a trade union demonstration. The cooperation between the local corps, the federal support services and the judicial authorities is flawless. Images and information are exchanged and the co-ordination of the research is as desired. At the Brussels Police Zone Capital city of Ixelles, a task force is set up whenever there are serious destruction or riots. In that case, the local detectives of this corps also take proactive action whenever the risk analysis indicates that incidents are possible. This includes identifying a research team and research coordinator following the demonstration and making and storing video footage during the demonstration for use as a means of identification and evidence. As regards the riots of 13 January 2021, the task force for the Polbruno Police Zone will end its work on 26 February 2021. The investigations are followed further by the regular investigation teams. The use of surveillance camera images in public space and the identification work carried out at the assembly centre for persons detained on the day of the facts have facilitated the identification of most of the perpetrators of the offences committed, with fourteen findings for serious facts and eighteen findings for lighter facts. For the lighter facts, the Brussels parish will prefer the direct subpoena. The work of the task force does not really require any further special comment. It has been a common practice of the police for many years to manage such situations and incidents. As far as the new forms of protest are concerned, I have indeed instructed the federal police to develop a new police approach to the preparation and management of these events, in particular as regards the collection of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u58	Madam Minister, as you say, the task force will have to be used more and more in the future, because we are going to a crime that is changing and evolving. Crime can no longer be put in a booth, nor can it stop at borders. Merging forces in the future can only be a powerful signal for the offenders. In the past, a central telephone number or e-mail address has also been used from time to time, where citizens could also report images or data. I don't think this happened the last time. It may be a useful recommendation for the next task force. We know how to measure, so maybe I'd change that a little bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u59	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 55014246C and Mr Rigot's 55014353C were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u60	Madam Minister, previously Minister Van Quickenborne confirmed in the Committee on Justice that neither the Voogdij department nor the reference office of trafficking/trafficking in human beings nor the specialised centres were informed in the Mawda case. The government agreement attaches great importance to the fight against trafficking in human beings and to the description procedures for minors. It is an absolute policy priority. First of all, what will you do to ensure that these procedures are generally better known to the different police areas, so that networks can also be rolled up better? So what lesson do you learn from the Mawda case? Secondly, in the Mawda report, the P Committee also mentions some significant contradictions between the manual and DGA's approach. What has changed in concrete terms compared to the past? I am talking about the construction of roadblocks on motorways, other than the ramps and exits, vehicle guides and the use of firearms. In what way is that more discouraged? Is it more accompanied by the emphasis on obstructions in the depths? How unusual was the shooting on the tires? Were police officers called upon in the past when tires were fired on in similar circumstances? I read in Myria's latest annual report about an incident in which a vehicle, as in the Mawda case, tried several times to hit the police vehicles, after which a number of shots were fired on the front tires to stop the vehicle. Thirdly, an article of 17 November 2020 in Humo suggests that for a time there was a practice in which the road police, mainly in the context of Operation Medusa, would have intercepted cars that would have just received a code from the FGP, with the intention of not controlling and maintaining them. As a result, the reverse would have happened, according to the article. Therefore, the FGP would no longer have entered the code in SIS or the ANG. Is it right what's written there? If so, do such practices still exist? What was and is being done about it? Fourthly, immediately after the facts, there were numerous contradictory statements by a number of involved actors, including your services, about the circumstances of Mawda's death, according to the various reconstructions. At least the communication after the facts also went very badly. Are you investigating what went wrong in that area to learn lessons from it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u61	At the end of 2020, the Federal Police Commissioner-General set up a working group with representatives of the general executives of both the administrative and judicial police in charge of the fight against transmigration and smuggling of human beings. The Working Group is currently drawing up proposals on the basis of an analysis of the report of the P Committee and the difficulties encountered in such interventions and is learning lessons from the Mawda case. These are aimed both at operational coordination between the administrative and judicial police, as well as at computer management and the procedure. The manual Violence control, pursuit and interception of the National Police Academy was also modified. It is now in line with the internal note of the Executive Board of the Federal Police Road Police. The amendment provides for the possibility of setting up a barrier on motorways, but only by competent federal road police personnel. The same applies to the technique whereby it is possible to catch up with the chased vehicle and to place itself in front of the fleeing vehicle and then guide it towards a fixed intercept point on a motorway exit. The use of firearms to intercept a vehicle is strongly discouraged. The shooting of vehicles shall be permitted only in the cases referred to in Article 38 of the Police Office Act. This concerns self-defense and/or when heavily armed persons are in the vehicle for crimes committed by force and weapons are ready for probable use against persons. As part of the training of chase and interception for all members of the integrated police, the main objective is indeed an interception through static operatives. Since the Mawda case, during pursuits by the federal road police, no incidents were recorded regarding the shooting of tyres of a fleeing vehicle. For your third question, I would like to refer you to the answer given by the Minister of Justice to the same question asked to him in connection with the article in Humo, which you also refer to. The content of the various statements and any contradictions during reconstructions, to which you refer, are part of the judicial investigation. So I can't make a statement on that today. Of course, it remains very important for such incidents to continue to communicate properly during the incident as well as after the incident during subsequent debriefings. Following the facts in 2018, the communication procedures to be followed were refreshed at the communication information service of the arrondissements and integrated exercises for the different terrain units are organised.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u62	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. I have already asked a lot of questions about the Mawda case, because I absolutely want the right conclusions to be drawn now, so that there is no repetition of the Mawda case before we draw the conclusions that we already have to draw today. I am glad that steps are being taken and that you are doing what is necessary. I will, of course, continue to follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u63	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Boukili's question was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u64	Madam Minister, on 13 February, seven 14-year-olds were arrested by the police in Kapellen commune after violating health regulations. They had gathered at one of them to relax, after a new week of distance lessons. As a result, the parents received a call confirming that their children had been arrested that evening. The young people were therefore forced to spend the night at the police station to appear before the youth judge only the next morning. Before their hearing, the young people spent several hours locked up in the basements of the courthouse in Antwerp, without food or drink and without the possibility of contacting their parents. One of them was allegedly even forced to urinate on the wall of his cell after refusing to go to the toilet. Madam Minister, you will agree with me that these conditions of detention are challenging and raise questions as to the proportionality and legality of the measures taken by the Antwerp Public Prosecutor's Office in relation to the charges. Indeed, if I believe circular 6/2020 of the prosecutors general dated 2 February, there is no indication that such facts justify an immediate presentation to the youth judge. Even so, it cannot be accepted that 14-year-olds should be detained under such conditions, precisely in a context where their mental health is increasingly worrying. Minister, what can you tell us about these facts? Was the arrest justified? If so, why? What do you know about the conditions of detention in this particular case? Do you consider that the charges against minors justify such conditions? Has an investigation been initiated into this incident? Have any complaints been filed? Could you provide me with the justification for the home visit referred to in this file and on what basis it would have been authorized? What are the directives of the Antwerp Public Prosecutor's Office on the basis of which it justifies the measures taken? Is there any consultation with your colleague, the Minister of Justice, on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u65	Dear colleague, given the context and timing, I cannot comment on the facts that you are referring to. As Minister of the Interior, I am not the authority on which the Noord-Kapellen and Stabroek police area depends. Moreover, by virtue of the separation of powers, I cannot express myself on ongoing investigations. I know no more details than you and as long as the investigation is under way, it is difficult for me to comment on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u66	Thank you, no problem. I'll wait for the action to be taken on this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u67	Mr.President, Madam Minister, despite the regionalization of this jurisdiction since 2015, it is still a royal decree, that of May 11, 2004, that organizes the auto-schools. As provided for in this decree, motor schools are obliged to train their students on licence B with vehicles up to five years of age. This regulatory provision is easily understood since vehicle-schools are driven by apprentices and therefore wear out more quickly. It is therefore for safety reasons that the legislator rightly imposed this age limit on car-school vehicles. However, it appears that this age limit is ignored by federal and local police. Moreover, it is not included in the Road Traffic Code. Taking advantage of this situation, it is my responsibility that some auto-schools bypass the regulations by introducing students to the driver's licence exam centres with vehicles under five years of age, while continuing to use vehicles over five years of age for training. It goes without saying that this system is particularly harmful and dangerous, particularly with regard to road safety. Minister, are you aware of this problem? Could you inform the federal and local police of this problem and thus remind them of Article 18, § 2 of the royal decree mentioned above, so that they act accordingly? Could targeted controls, in your opinion, be organized?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u68	Mr President, Mrs Song, the Royal Decree of 11 May 2004 on the conditions for the approval of motor vehicle driving schools provides in Article 18, § 2, 1° that category B vehicles which are used by motor schools to provide practical courses must be less than five years old. The above-mentioned Royal Decree is a decree implementing the Law of 16 March 1968 on the Road Traffic Police. In accordance with the provisions of Article 29, § 2, of this Law, an infringement of this provision is a first-degree offence. The police do not carry out any targeted checks on this offence. This is not a priority. Cars, mixed cars and minibuses used for driving learning are subject to periodic checks before the first entry into service in Belgium or on the date of re-entry into service in Belgium, and every six months thereafter. In order to be accepted for the practical examination, candidates must present the registration certificate and the green inspection certificate of the vehicle. The control of self-schools is the responsibility of the Regions. Persons designated by the competent ministers may, under any circumstances, have access to the premises for the teaching and administration of the school and to the training grounds. They can attend theoretical and practical lessons. They may read the school's books and documentation, student registration cards, daily records, attendance lists, registration records and all documents relating to the school's activities. Where appropriate, they may be provided with a copy for investigative purposes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u69	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which I will of course pass on to the members of the auto-schools that have called me in. I will certainly come back to you, if necessary, for further information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u70	Mr President, Madam Minister, we have recently learned that the police services in Liège will no longer mobilize daily co-vid patrols. These patrols, which consist of between 20 and 25 police officers per day, will be replaced by conventional operational patrols. The Liège police have explained that patrols specific to the covid measures will however be maintained in the evening, and in particular to ensure respect for the curfew, as well as on Saturday, near the main commercial routes. Minister, can you confirm this information? In Belgium as a whole, how many patrols are assigned to the monitoring of covid measures? Will others also be removed, as is the case in Liège? What is the overall picture of police action with regard to specific covid patrols? According to reports, some so-called sensitive neighbourhoods have so far been avoided by covid patrols, in order to avoid potential conflicts. Can you shed some light on these facts? Are they proven? Have police services received any implicit or explicit instructions indicating areas to be preferred or excluded as part of these patrols? Thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u71	Mr President, Minister, with the beautiful and early spring weather on the weekend of 20 and 21 February, we came out of our barn massively. A pleasant amount of vitamin D was offered to us free of charge by the sun and had come. However, it also caused a lot of busy scenes. In some places, even spontaneous dances broke loose on Saturday. During the morning news on Monday, February 22, I heard that the police wanted to talk to you because there were not the same strict actions in different police zones during the corona patrols. In one area, there was a strong consolidation, while in another it remained in the case of a warning to the citizens concerned. The fact that the police make an assessment of certain situations makes sense, but at the same time it is possible to expect uniform enforcement of the rules in Belgium. Enjoying the good weather must certainly be possible, but it must still be our priority to ensure that the safety measures are fully respected. I have the following questions. You announced that you would examine with the police whether certain instructions should be clarified. Did that meeting take place in the meantime? If so, what were the results? Is it your intention to communicate these instructions very clearly to all police zones and mayors, so that they can deal with them properly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u72	Mr President, there are many figures in my answer. Mrs Chanson, as far as the police zone of Liège is concerned, the covid patrols have not been abolished but have been lightened on the basis of the observations on the ground and in the forecast of the numbers to be provided as soon as the vaccination centres are opened. All police officers in this police area are sensitized and ensure compliance with the prescribed measures. As a whole, the population respects the rules. Specific patrols are therefore maintained in the evening and on weekends due to curfew but also the attractiveness of the city and the fact that there are fewer troops available at these times. The figures do not indicate a reduction in verbalization as a result of this decrease, which took place on February 9, 2021. During the week of 4 to 10 February 2021, 123 minutes were issued against 135 minutes during the week of 11 to 18 February 2021. At the level of the report on the activities of the Liège police zone with regard to the covid verbalizations, 6 931 minutes have been drawn up since 19 March 2020, including the non-port of the mask (2 229), the gathering (1 896), the displacements (1 848), the social distancing (471), the non-respect of the closure of the shops (111), the lockdown parties (423), the nargiles (15), the public health (239). These minutes were drawn up during the first confinement in the absence of detailed legislation. No neighbourhood has received any special treatment. However, the patrols are mainly oriented towards the places of large gathering. The police area has not received any implicit or explicit instructions on this matter. With regard to the country-wide organization in this area, each Chief of Staff is the responsible authority for organizing services and priorities according to the management elements at his or her disposal. Mr Moyaers, on 22 February 2021, I did indeed have discussions with the Commissioner-General and the Chairman of the Local Police Permanent Commission over the past weekend. Fortunately, it was a sunny weekend, albeit with some additional challenges. The consultations have shown that enforcement within the police zones can of course differ from one another. Several factors play a role in this, such as the location, cooperation and willingness to listen of the offenders, the need to use coercion and the police capacity available. The number of facts recorded must also take into account factors such as tourism and the number of commuters, whether it is a border area or a student city. It is therefore not appropriate to compare figures from the different police zones, provinces or regions, because such a comparison is particularly difficult and would make abstraction of a number of relevant parameters. Moreover, there is no national view of the local GAS fines, which could be preferred in the light of the situation. The Commissioner-General and the Chairman of the Permanent Committee of Local Police have assured me that the operational guidelines issued by the GPI COVID-19 Task Force are sufficiently clear in this respect. However, I have asked the GPI COVID-19 Task Force to re-sensitise police officers and their managers in the field, so that the same enforcement and instruction can apply everywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u73	Minister, once it is not customary, you have given me more answers than I expected. I would therefore like to thank you for all the details and figures you have given me. Therefore, Mr President, I will have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u74	That's very good, Mrs. Song!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u75	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Enforcement may vary due to different factors. However, I hear one of the factors coming back again, namely the dependence on the number of policemen that could be deployed, which once again confirms to me that some police areas do not have enough manpower to carry out proper controls. That is another indication of the merger of police zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u76	Mr President, Madam Minister, at the Ministerial Council of late January, a number of royal decisions were adopted on radio access, including the 700 MHz frequency band under the 5G dossier. That is a good thing, but the KB on the 700 MHz frequency band had a very long run. ASTRID has been preparing for the post-TETRA era for some time and needs stable agreements and the necessary guarantees. In 2017 and 2018, there was a very hard work on an initial proposal from the BIPT on this subject. There is a great deal of bargaining power involved in this. We've been with a lot of people. I was a government commissioner for ASTRID. At that time, we reached a fine compromise which was acceptable to everyone. This was mainly about the importance of critical communication, national roaming and the arbitration role of BIPT. By the way, that text was also adopted at the July 2018 Ministerial Council. Now, however, we see that the decision of 22 January approved the original proposal of the BIPT. This was done without consulting or even informing the people of ASTRID and the aid and security services. So I have a few questions on this, because of concern. Has there been any contact between Mrs. De Sutter's cabinet and your cabinet? Were they aware that there was a discrepancy between those texts? Was your government commissioner or any of your cabinet consulted in that? You're not Deputy Prime Minister, so you're not in the IKWs. I understand perfectly well that it is not obvious if no one makes the alarm. In the meantime, have any steps been taken to remedy that? My concern was also, when I look at the notification, that it was approved at first reading, but there is no mandatory second reading. There is only a second reading if certain opinions are negative. Then the IKW can decide to send it back to the Council of Ministers. If anything else needs to be changed, it will have to come from you; then you will have to pull the alarm. In the meantime, have you spoken to the services? Is Mrs. De Sutter aware? What are the next steps you will take?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u77	(...) with a draft law and five large, very technical royal decrees concerning the multi-band auction 5G approved. That is a very technical matter with hundreds of pages of texts. The so-called KB 700 MHz is relevant to ASTRID, as it includes guarantees for future broadband communications of the emergency and security services. This was the subject of a consensus between the parties involved, including ASTRID and BIPT, in 2018, apparently after a lot of consultations. That agreement was then translated into a text approved by the Council of Ministers. It has now become clear that the draft of the Royal Decree to which I have just referred has been partially amended and without consultation or prior notification or indication. This was not noted in the preparation of the discussions, which is, of course, at least unfortunate. As a result, the design no longer meets the needs of the emergency and security services at first sight. I did pull the alarm bell, and it's gonna be a matter of fixing that design right now. This has already been discussed and, together with Mr De Sutter, I hope to be able to give sufficient guarantees to NV ASTRID and therefore to the emergency and security services in the next few days. As I understand it, Minister De Sutter's cabinet was also surprised by the state of affairs. So this is currently under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u78	Madam Minister, I did not expect anything else from you, so I am somewhat reassured. However, I asked Mrs De Sutter two hours ago whether she was aware of this matter and whether the BIPT had informed her that there was another text. After all, there has been some mistrust between the services, because this was a devious way to re-table an initial proposal. Of course, she had received arguments from her services and her reply was that BIPT is convinced that this is much more legally correct and offers even more guarantees for ASTRID. I'm not really convinced of that. So I fear that there is still work to be done for you to obtain the necessary guarantees for ASTRID. I am also afraid that there is a breach of confidence between ASTRID and the BIPT, which would actually be very regrettable, given the good cooperation we have had in the past and the fact that we will need both services in the future. However, I trust that you will take everything out of the closet to make that right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u79	Mr Ducarme is currently meeting in another committee. Question No 55014330C by Mr Ducrame is delayed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u80	Minister, on February 14, an artist named Quentin Dujardin, a guitarist musician, started a mini-concert. I say mini, because I think he only sang one song. He did it in front of fifteen people in the church of Crupet. Fifteen persons are the number of persons authorized to attend worship in the same place and under the same sanitary conditions. This event – I don't know if it should be called this – triggered the intervention of the police, who was informed and who took the identities of all those present with a view to an administrative sanction for violation of the health rules, pursuant to article 8, §1, of the ministerial decree of 29 October last and the resulting police regulation of the governor of the Province of Namur. Minister, the political dimension of this event is obvious. If measures are taken to protect the health of all in the period of crisis that we are going through, it is clear that these measures must be applied in the same way for all activities and that consistency is needed in order to win the support of the population. It is assumed that cultural or cultural activities must have the same health protection in identical places. This obviously shows – do I say by the absurd? – that strict protocols could allow for a gradual reopening. It is known that the cultural sector, artists and intermittents are suffering greatly in the current situation and that they are seeking to be able to work and perform their services, under clearly strictly established conditions. Many efforts have been made by all to keep schools open, to give air to the population. We have been able to reopen contact jobs such as hairdressers, which also supports the morale of hairdressers and our fellow citizens. With this in mind, culture participates in this same effort. It gives dreams, hope, horizons. Measures as strict as those for worship, if respected, could be taken. Is it not possible to consider taking measures to allow such events and to give opportunities to the workers in this sector, who are waiting for them? This is the case with artists and intermittents, technicians and also citizens. I want to say that artists need air and that citizens need art. How do you analyze this situation? The citizen understands that under the same health conditions, in the same places, a group of fifteen persons is allowed to participate in the practice of a cult and another group of fifteen persons cannot attend a concert except to be in a criminal situation. Should we not harmonise health measures in this type of situation and open a little doors to the arts and culture sector? Then there is the question of the follow-up that will be given or not. Maybe it's not up to you. We will see what will be decided by the King's attorney in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u81	Mr Delizée, on this issue, I would like first of all to point out that the four-person assembly limit remains the rule of principle. However, the existence of certain differences in treatment is not in itself discriminatory, provided that they can be justified from a legal point of view. I would then like to point out that the limitation to fifteen persons during Masses and religious offices is originally explained by the fact that freedom of worship is one of the fundamental rights enshrined in our Constitution, as stressed by the Council of State in its decision of 8 December 2020. At the same time, giving concerts is not currently compatible with the measures in force. I would like to point out that arrangements exist, such as the use of online performances and performances. It would therefore not be entirely correct to say that the current situation would no longer give us access to the themes of hope and reason offered by culture. However, I understand as much as you do the lack of these means of substitution in the eyes of those involved in the cultural sector. That is why, I repeat, the measures in force will not keep cultural establishments too closed one day, nor will they restrict gatherings. As for a gradual reopening, you know, like me, the current numbers of the epidemic, which always clearly indicate the delicate and precarious nature of the situation. As you know, decisions regarding the closure, reopening or reorganization of a particular sector are made by the government as a whole. These decisions are based on different scientific opinions and on developments in the epidemiological situation. The question of possible prosecution is not within my jurisdiction. I'll refer you to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u82	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand that measures are being taken, but it seems illogical that, in the same place and under identical health conditions, benefits of a different nature are not treated in the same way. You rightly speak of the freedom of worship, which is enshrined in our Constitution. Perhaps freedom of culture should be included in the constitutional review process in order to put it on the same footing. Here, it's about living art. Of course, shows take place online, but it's not the same at all. What artists want is obviously to meet the public. And the audience, on the other hand, wants to be in the presence of the artists. Let us hope that the next Concertation Committee will be able to consider this point among others and will be able in all wisdom to proceed in a gradual manner to allow our artists to express themselves somewhat.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u83	Minister, working time within Emergency Preparedness would now be organised around 24-hour shifts. This way of working has been endorsed by workers' organisations but has been challenged by some. In any case, it was not unanimous. My attention was drawn to the conclusions of a working group in your department on the impact of long shifts (12 or 24 hours) on safety. The study concerned firefighters and concluded that compared with 8-hour shifters, the risk of accident and illness is one third higher for 12-hour shifters and is still doubled for 24-hour shifters. In addition, "from the point of view of workers' health and safety, only 8-hour services are justified and longer working time must be avoided as far as possible". The findings of the 2017 working group concerned fire service officers. My view is that the same conclusions are valid for Emergency Preparedness staff. I would add that as a result of the reform of the Civil Protection system under the previous legislature, the number of barracks has been reduced from six to four, resulting in agents being forced to travel long distances, twice two hours a day between the home and the workplace for some. This brings them, for a 24-hour shift, to a very long time of 28 hours in a row, which increases the risk of accidents. I know that the proposed amendment only concerns Civil Protection, but that is not without concern to the actors of other relief and security services, whose situation is not comparable to that of Civil Protection. Minister, is this decision only for Emergency Preparedness? Is it not a precedent for regulating the working time of other services?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, I confirm that the 24-hour civil protection shift system is not intended to set a precedent for other sectors. This is a tailor-made response to a specific situation. Emergency areas enjoy a wide range of autonomy in order to determine the hourly regime of their operational personnel, but within the limits laid down by the regulations. The transition to a 24-hour shift structural regime is not in accordance with the regulations and the decision of a rescue zone extending or setting up this regime can therefore be annulled on the basis of the Law of 19 April 2014 laying down certain aspects of the working time arrangements of the operational professional members of the rescue zones and of the fire and emergency medical aid service of the Brussels-Capital Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u85	Minister, thank you for your answers. You reassure me. In the emergency areas, there is a fear that this specific civil protection organisation will also be used, but you have just told us the opposite.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u86	Madam Minister, the government agreement states that 1,600 inspectors and agents will be recruited every year. During your policy statement, you explained that the new recruitment procedure, which would be applied from 1 March, would be speeded up, without compromising quality. I hear from several channels that that date could not be met. This would be due to the fact that the digital recruitment programme developed by DRI is not yet ready. Madam Minister, will the starting date of 1 March 2021 be met for the new procedures? Is the 1,600 target still feasible this year? Has the necessary budgets been provided for this? How many candidate inspectors are currently in training in all police schools? Is there a dispersal plan yet? When that influx starts, how will it be spread across the local police zones and the federal police?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u87	Minister, like my colleague, it is my responsibility that the digital recruitment program will not yet be ready. Minister, can you confirm this information and provide us with an update? Can you reassure us of the possibility of achieving the goals we set ourselves just a few months ago with the establishment of our government? I thank you already for the information you will be able to convey to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, strengthening the police is indeed an important priority for me. In fact, I decided to recruit 1,600 employees per year for the core executive. To do this, it is essential to update recruitment procedures in 2021. I am therefore doing everything I can to start the improved recruitment concept and the process of recruitment as soon as possible. The Council of State is currently examining the draft Royal Decree and Ministerial Decree. We will then negotiate the text and the selection rules with the trade unions. A new website, jobpol, is also being developed. I believe that the figure of 1 600 new recruits is feasible. I am confident that this objective can be achieved if there is coherent cooperation with all partners. The campaigns are in full swing and new recruitment channels are also being used. For example, the recently launched virtual information sessions of police schools have attracted many potential candidates. The Recruitment and Selection Service is strengthened to complete the selections in time. I'm also committed to strengthening police schools so they can train the increased number of recruits. The Council of Ministers of 23 October last year decided to grant federal police credits from the interdepartmental commission, including for the high-quality and accelerated recruitment of the 1,600 prospective inspectors. Until the beginning of last week 282 candidates were invited to start the training, 221 candidates are in the reserve and are waiting for the same invitation. There is currently a multiple of that number in the selection chain, pending testing. Based on a statistical analysis of the past few years, the federal police can estimate the percentage of candidates that will succeed in the tests. The provisional assessment looks good and makes that we will be on track to achieve the objective. Meanwhile, we continue to recruit and continue to innovate by taping new channels, for example with a tailor-made campaign per province and even per target group. We continue to work to strengthen networks and to make the police profession more attractive, especially in the regions or in the target groups where we cannot always attract enough candidates. In 2020, 1,310 police inspectors began training. These trainings are still under way. The first formations of 2021 will begin on 1 March with 115 candidates in Namur and 60 in Liège. A dissemination plan for this year was drawn up at the beginning of 2021, but is subject to the conditions for organizing schools or to the number of qualified candidates. This plan has not yet been prepared for the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u89	Madam Minister, I am a little reassured that the number of 1,600 can be achieved on the basis of the figures presented by the candidates today. I myself spent the entire afternoon working on the recruitment problem in our province. As you said, the governor has taken initiatives to start a working group on recruitment, which I think is very good. That has also taught me that the police zones themselves can do a number of things and that we should not always look at the federal influx. We can also make our own zones a little more attractive and take local initiatives. Then I attended the Future Forum with the mayors of Halle-Vilvoorde, which you will see next week, wherever it was applied. I'm just worried about what I heard this morning from a police chief who's on some committee too. He said that the SARA programme, I think this is the program that the DRI is making, actually will not be ready for the first half of this year. He even said it might not be up and running this year. I am concerned about such things, so the pressure on the DRI must really be increased in order to implement the digitisation programme, otherwise we will not be able to organise the influx faster. As far as the dispersal plan is concerned, I also said last time that the intention should still be that the influx of graduate prospective inspectors should first go to the areas most in deficit. Today there are zones in Halle-Vilvoorde which are 30 to 33 % deficit in the area of inspectors. So that must be the rule to make things even. Another chief of police told me this morning that people in Halle-Vilvoorde really live on aspirant mobility. There is no mobility from inspectors to their zones: they all go to Brussels, East Flanders or Limburg, but in Flemish Brabant people really live on aspirant mobility. If it is no longer there, the number of inspectors will really fall, so I would ask you to keep in mind that the DRI will deliver everything well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u90	Madam Minister, thank you for reassuring me. On the other hand, I share the concerns of my colleague Vandenput, as the SARA programme does not yet appear to be ready for the spring. We will therefore not fail to come back to you for a follow-up on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u91	In the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs we had already more or less agreed to discuss this in more depth. Perhaps it would be interesting to remind the other committee members of this. It's just a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u92	Minister, the union of the General Centre for Public Services (CGSP) Police recently sent a letter to Mr. Close, the mayor of the City of Brussels, stating that it "was contacted by colleagues who witnessed gratuitous police violence at the Etterbeek barracks during the administrative arrests of often very young demonstrators". In this letter, we can also read: "The covid standards have not been taken into account. The demonstrators were piled up in the cells without any precautions. There was a shortage of female staff to conduct searches of inmates. Minors were brutally beaten in the cells, with no reaction from the leaders present. Minors were not immediately handed over to their parents." The statements made by the CGSP Police finally corroborate those of some demonstrators and their families who denounced the violence in the cells of the Etterbeek barracks. When I asked you about this, at the committee on 10 February, you said that an internal investigation into the facts was under way and that it would establish the sanctions and possible measures to be taken. You also told me that the 86 minors arrested had been handed over to their parents as soon as possible. If I refer to the statement made by the above-mentioned union, the acts of violence are now confirmed by some police officers present at that time. I know that, like me, you are sensitive to the violence that we both consider intolerable. That is why I would like to come back to you and ask for a strong response to the statements made by the union of the CGSP Police. Madam Minister, have you been able to read this letter to the mayor of the City of Brussels? Do you have any contact with this union or do you intend to have one soon? Have the police whistleblowers referred to by the union been identified? If so, were they heard as part of the internal investigation? Can you tell us where the investigation is? Have sanctions been adopted to date?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u93	Mr President, Madam Minister, like my colleague, I recently asked you about the management of events in times of pandemics. Following the demonstration that triggered this issue, about ten Brussels police officers took on their responsibilities in denouncing unacceptable behaviour – it should be recalled – of their colleagues regarding the abuse of force or verbal violence. Here we must salute the courage of those who break the omerta which seems to reign around such facts within the police forces. But you can't just say hello to him. He must be consecrated and protected. As far as the protection of whistleblowers within the police is concerned, the situation remains more than problematic. Although the law protecting persons who report violations of integrity had been amended to make it applicable to the integrated police, no order had been made to give effect to that protection. This is our responsibility. This is unacceptable! Minister, what is the current situation with regard to the protection of whistleblowers in the integrated police? Are enforcement orders drafted to make effective the legal protection provided for these whistleblowers? In concrete terms, what measures are being taken on the ground to ensure that individuals and police officers reporting abuses are not subjected to reprisals by their superiors or colleagues? In addition to taking these orders, what measures do you intend to take to ensure the physical and moral integrity of persons in places of detention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u94	Madam Minister, at the committee meeting on 10 February we were together with seven colleagues who had questions about the out of control event on 24 January. This led to a genuine topical debate and a very comprehensive answer from you, for which I thank you. In particular, we asked questions about the possible abuse of power by the police with arbitrary arrests, assaults with the baton and racist and sexist statements, especially against young people. There have been many sad testimonies which have also led to complaints to the P Committee and the Chief Constable has also launched an internal investigation, which should clarify whether sanctions should be imposed. On 22 February, however, we heard in the media that the ACOD police union strongly distanced itself from the action of the federal police during the 24 January event in an open letter to the Mayor of Brussels. Law enforcement was carried out by a mixed department of the local police Brussels-Elsene and the intervention corps of the federal police. The actions of the federal police would seem to have caused a great deal of resentment within the local police. It is the very first time a police union has so openly expressed its views on violence committed by the police. I have the following questions. Is there any more clarity on internal research and on the examination of the P Committee? If not, when can we expect more clarification on this? At the time of the Commission on 10 February, 11 complaints had officially been lodged with the P Committee. In the meantime, have any complaints been added? The mayor of Brussels was signed by the police union. Should you, as a competent minister, also receive such a letter? Finally, my last and perhaps most important question: the fact that a police union is sending this letter is a very strong signal and strengthens my idea that the abuse of violence by a number of policemen is facing a very large group of people who are doing their job with heart and soul and in a very honest way. However, this letter is also very sensitive. The policemen who have stuck their necks out here and testified may well be held accountable internally. What steps will you take to protect them from this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u95	Mr President, Mrs Chanson, the letter from the CGSP which you refer to in your question has indeed been sent to the mayors of Brussels and Ixelles and to the chief of corps of the area concerned. I received a copy of that letter. As far as whistleblowers are concerned, an investigation is under way and the chief of corps of the Brussels-Ixelles police zone has instructed them to be heard. With regard to staff accused of denunciations and possible sanctions, the results of the ongoing investigation will have to be awaited. Mr Aouasti, the Act of 15 September 2013 on the reporting of a suspected violation of integrity within a federal administrative authority by a member of his staff has been applicable to the federal police since the amendment of the 2019 Act. Article 15 of this law protects, under certain conditions, whistleblowers against a measure having adverse consequences in terms of working conditions or circumstances. Under this legislation, operational staff can currently make an external complaint to the P Committee and civilian staff to the Federal Ombudsman. The Act also provides for the internal component of the reporting system to be managed by persons of trust and integrity. With a view to establishing a system of trust and integrity within the integrated police force, the revision of the Royal Decree of 9 October 2014 implementing the 2013 Act is being finalized. After the publication of this royal decree, a system of internal denunciation to the federal police will be activated. To this is added the European Directive 2019/1937 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2019 on the protection of persons who report violations of Union law. This Directive sets out the conditions for the protection of whistleblowers. Currently, the Federal Police participates in federal working groups to transpose the European Directive into national law. The skills and skills necessary to secure persons in transit prisons are part of the basic training of the police officer. After the search and before the detention, the necessary measures shall be taken to ensure that any person deprived of liberty has no means of self-medication and is not in possession of objects dangerous to his or her safety. In addition, she has the right to medical assistance, either on the initiative of the intervening police officer or on her own initiative. When the cells are equipped with an audio-video system, the person deprived of liberty is monitored to observe his physical and psychological condition and to be able to intervene if necessary. Where there is no audio-video system, monitoring staff are expected to maintain contact with the person detained at regular intervals. The facts reported here, which are the subject of an internal investigation, obviously do not correspond to what is expected of the police in this regard. Depending on the results of the investigation, individual and/or structural measures may be taken by the Chief of Corps to ensure that arrest and detention procedures are in accordance with what is legally provided for and taught in police schools. Mr Moyaers, as I said earlier, the investigations are still under way. I cannot rule on the time limits within which these investigations can be concluded. With regard to new complaints that would have been submitted to the P Committee, I would like to ask you to address further questions to Parliament, since the P Committee falls below. I have now received a copy of the letter addressed to the mayor and the chief of police, as I said. Finally, as I explained earlier, there are regulations and mechanisms to protect police officers reporting breaches of integrity. Since the amendment of the 2019 Act, the law of 15 September 2013 on the notification of presumed integrity violations in federal administrative authorities also applies to federal police. Under certain conditions, Article 15 of this law protects whistleblowers from a measure having an adverse effect on the working conditions or on the operating conditions. In this context, operational staff can make an external notification to the P Committee. As I said earlier, civilian staff can contact the Federal Ombudsman. This law also provides that the trusted persons are "integrity" to the internal component of the notification system. In order to set up a system of trusted persons on integrity, the review of the RB is almost complete. Afterwards, the internal reporting system will also be activated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u96	Minister, thank you for your answers. Of course, I am pleased to hear that the drafting of the royal decree is in the process of being completed and that we will soon be able to learn about it. Just like you, I'm waiting for the rest of the investigation to shed some light on this case and make a proper decision. As I told you last time, I will come back to you so that we can continue our work on this issue together, so that we can make good decisions so that this problem does not happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u97	Minister, thank you for your answers. The only problem is that unfortunately they seem insufficient. In my view, the ability to complain to Committee P is too limited. The latter himself indicates that it is not intended to solve individual problems. Is there an individual problem or a malfunction when police officers put pressure on some of their colleagues? In addition, the P Committee has no coercive capacity. In short, its perimeter lacks scope. I mean, in any case, that we are in the process of bringing the final touch to an order to implement the provisions and to materialize the possibility given to these police officers to lodge a complaint. In this regard, I would have liked to see a timetable. However, with regard to the European Alert Launchers Directive, you are aware that it must be transposed into national law by next December. However, Belgium is not the champion of compliance with the transposition deadlines. Although your Justice colleague is working on it, this directive does not – to date – have any direct horizontal effect. If I combine the three aspects – the absence of the possibility of the P Committee, the absence of a decree to enforce the law and the absence of a horizontal effect of the directive – the whistleblowers are still poor at the moment. However, this present-day problem requires us to be able to send them a message. You share my conviction that they are necessary in the police service. An indefinite timetable is therefore not sufficient. We must be able to guarantee them effective protection. As they are waiting for this message, it would be a good idea for you to address it to them, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u98	Madam Secretary, I understand that you have not yet been able to release much about the investigation. I actually expected that a bit, but I'm actually somewhat positively surprised by this whole thing, however strange it may sound. When I heard the news in the car on Monday morning, I immediately knew what it was about. Speaking is silver and silence is gold. That is an old proverb that I often use when people are hunted and tell far too much, which they regret afterwards. Here it feels a little different. The culture of silence, which was described in the early 1970s, even before myself and certainly you were born because of the great loyalty between colleagues, is broken here. Although loyalty is something very precious, with which one is also quite careful, we have seen in the Chovanec case, for example, what it can lead to if one does not speak out of loyalty. I therefore think that this trend break is a very strong signal: a number of police officers are clearly drawing a line in the sand. For their integrity and for enlargement that of all policemen doing their job well, politics must support them as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u99	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, Saturday, February 13th, the Reclaim the night gathering was held in Saint-Gilles at the initiative of the Fight Back collective. The protestors' objective was to testify to the insecurity they were experiencing on the street, denouncing the violence and harassment they were constantly subjected to in the public space. The demonstration started at 8:00 p.m. A few minutes later, police officers began to encircle these protestors. If I believe what I have said, despite the pacifist quality of the demonstration, the police have tightened the nasse and have said that they have been ordered to confine the protestors. Some report having been numbered using a number affixed to their arms without any prior explanation. Others indicated that they had never been informed of the reasons for their arrest. The arrested protesters reported spending the night at ten in an unheated cell, without shoes, with a small mattress and a few blankets. They would not have been explained their rights or allowed to make a telephone call. Therefore, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Are you aware of this practice of numbering, if so, what is its purpose? The mayor said he had tolerated the rallies, could you tell us where the decision to arrest the protestors came from? Do you confirm the facts reported by them? What do you think of these conditions of detention described by those who came back to me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u100	Ms. Chanson, no formal request for approval of an event had been made to the administrative authority. The key elements of information identified in the risk analysis indicated potential spillovers. Thus, the administrative authority has decided not to allow the event. However, this same authority informed in real time of the evolution of the situation on the announced sites of the demonstration finally tolerated the gathering. This is provided that the current guidelines for the covid-19 pandemic are followed. However, the number of demonstrators continued to grow. The various attempts by the police to engage in dialogue with the group failed, mainly because of a hard core of protesters who were invectivating other people in the group who were receptive to the dialogue. With the consent of the authority, this core was extracted from the group and arrested administratively, which made it possible to dialogue with the rest of the members of the group. The administrative authority confirmed the continued administrative deprivation of liberty of the arrested persons. This decision was taken in order to prevent further grouping in the evening and to comply with curfew-related guidelines. When it comes to numbering, it stems from the need to link the person to his or her personal effects. Ideally, this numbering is done on an identification collar and a blister. In this context, the numbering has been done at the hand level. I asked the area to improve its numbering procedure during my visit this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u101	I will not fail to convey this information and clarification to the various people who have questioned me. Thank you for your initiative to request a revision of this numbering principle. I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u102	Madam Minister, I echo the statements made by two corps chiefs from the Brussels Midi and Brussels Nord police areas, which were the subject of an article in Le Soir on 16 February. The two chiefs stated that they wanted to think of a way out of the spiral in which the forces of law and order are currently present in the light of the tragic events of the last few weeks, which we have already discussed here. One said that new skills should be developed regarding the use of speech, as well as being more demanding, through strong disciplinary postures and decisions when incidents occur. Minister, what is your opinion about the comments made by these two chiefs on the need to leave a policy they call too safe? What is the training given today in the academies on communication in the broad sense? In your opinion, would investing more in prevention be one of the possible intentions when you refer to the enhancement of the function of neighbourhood agent in particular, as you mentioned in your policy statement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u103	Mrs Chanson, the management of the covid crisis is the subject of decisions taken by the CCO and the control and prosecution policies developed in this area are part of the above-mentioned decisions. It is not a question of pursuing a security and punitive policy, it is a question of intervening as adequately as possible in order to manage this pandemic, for the benefit of all citizens. For the management of the crisis covid as well as for the execution of basic police missions, the philosophy of a community-oriented police remains applicable. The operational directives issued by the GPI task force also point out that it is appropriate in all cases to intervene with common sense in order to facilitate the operation of the intervention. The manifest good faith of those questioned is taken into account. The terms "the whole policeman" must also be nuanced, the police being only a link in the security chain. Under no circumstances can security be regarded as a mission exclusively reserved for the integrated police, justice and other public services; it must be the work of and from civil society. To this end, the IPNS (National Security Police Image) is being carried out in collaboration with external partners who have a leading role in a series of phenomena. The comprehensive security framework note provides a framework for reference and strategic policy for all actors contributing to a real security approach. In my policy statement, I address an integral security policy that pays particular attention to prevention and repression and involves working collaboratively with my colleagues in the federal government and those of the federated entities, governors, mayors, local administrations, knowledge centres, businesses and citizens. Violence control training also pays particular attention to communication and psychosocial skills. I am talking not only about basic training, but also about the ongoing training and training that our police officers must regularly follow throughout their careers. Various other training courses offered to police officers can be cited, such as those dealing more specifically with communication and conflict management. I obviously share the desire to see the police more invested in prevention and socio-cultural activities. The federal police are engaged in constructive relations with various NGOs and other civil society organizations. In addition, through my policy statement, I will continue to encourage citizen participation in the area of societal security.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u104	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u105	Questions Nos 55014408C and 55014409C by Georges Dallemagne are not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u106	Mr President, Madam Minister, if the movement in the public space resumes with the gradual defination – in any case, we will see – the sexist harassment of the street has never stopped. Insistent views, disparaging comments, touching... These attitudes influence the movement of women and disturb their relationship to the street. The European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights has just objected to the phenomenon by means of a report published this Friday, 19 February, which highlights that 80% of young Europeans avoid certain places or neighbourhoods out of fear for their safety. The author of the report said that it was an important issue in terms of equality, because it showed that they could not use public spaces in the same way as men. Although street harassment is a recurring phenomenon, its denunciation is not. For example, the difficulty of proving gender-based acts makes it difficult for the police to effectively combat gender-based acts. The failure to bring these complaints to fruition causes women to be discouraged and to fall back on themselves. To remedy these difficulties of denunciation, certain initiatives have been put in place, in particular at the Liège police, which launched last summer a project called "Combating sexism and street harassment", the aim of which is to tackle the phenomenon of street harassment and sexism by a comprehensive approach. Both law enforcement and law enforcement, as well as prevention and awareness-raising, are highlighted in this project. Thus, three actions were carried out in Liège, during which police officers walked in plain clothes to see the gender-based harassment of themselves or other citizens. During these actions, 26 persons were arrested and 16 minutes were drawn up. The Liège Public Prosecutor's Office has strongly encouraged these actions and has guaranteed the appropriate criminal follow-up of all the minutes drawn up. Minister, what do you think about this type of action that includes law enforcement, but also prevention components? Should we not generalize this type of action to all our police areas? Would it be possible at least to launch pilot projects in certain cities in order to measure the added value and effectiveness of these actions? If not, why? When I asked your predecessor, Mr. From Crem, he had announced that he had commissioned the NCIC (the National Institute of Criminalism and Criminalology) to conduct an investigation into the handling of complaints concerning sexism. Do we have the results of this survey today? What are the conclusions? It also announced the possibility of including training on street harassment and gender-based violence in the training of the National Police Academy. What about today?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u107	Madam Minister, my colleague Rohonyi, having made the observation and the context, I will come directly to my questions. As a Liegeese, I am well aware of the project "Fight against sexism and street harassment" which was put in place by the Liège police and which has indeed experienced excellent coverage by the press since we talked about it for a whole week so much this issue finally revealed very worrying things. Madam Minister, what do you think of this project which was set up at local level in Liège? Could a generalization of these actions be envisaged in different police areas or even as a whole? Why not finally be on the initiative of pilot projects that would complement the Belgian initiative? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u108	Ladies, it goes without saying that street gender-based intimidation is an unacceptable behaviour that cannot and should not be tolerated. The figures from the latest 2018 Security Monitor do reveal that women feel much less secure than men in the public space. No surprise! For example, they do not go out in the dark, do not take public transport and participate in popular events. With regard to the very concrete action taken in Liège, this is certainly a good initiative. However, it is useful to recall that pro-active and preventive measures to avoid such behaviour are equally important. We must therefore not limit ourselves to a police reaction alone, but to understanding the problem by involving other actors in society, such as those involved in prevention and education, for example. As part of the project set up by the Liège police, actions took place at different times of the day and in various places known to promote these behaviours such as the city centre and public parks. Your request to generalize these actions to any police area and to launch more pilot projects is certainly justified in this context. However, as I said, this is not just a police response. In addition, the Directorate-General for Safety and Prevention published the Gender and Public Space guide in 2020. This guide is based on a prevention policy aimed at reducing women's feelings of insecurity in the public space. The guide aims to encourage the authorities of cities and municipalities to integrate a gender perspective into their development projects in their city, commune or neighbourhood. The guide also includes some examples of national and international prevention campaigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u109	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I am very pleased to hear your willingness to take this phenomenon of street sexism seriously. This is very important because it comes upstream of the chain of violence against women. Such violence may be more serious, including physical violence. That is why it is really very important to give ourselves the means to enforce this famous law on sexism. However, we note on the ground that this law is little known in certain police areas. Some have well-trained reference officials on the anti-sex law, while others still do not. I had questioned your predecessor, who had explained to me that it was impossible to obtain figures as to whether or not these reference police officers were present in the various police areas, which I find incomprehensible. With regard to the project developed in Liège, it is also apparent that some police areas are mobilising police officers in civilian clothes and others are not, although this is a particularly interesting initiative, in this case when it comes to cases of flagrante delicto. Indeed, it is recognized that it is difficult for victims to file complaints and, above all, to provide evidence of harassment. These various measures show that the victims are unequal depending on the police area in which they are located. They do not have the same opportunities to assert their rights. I find this totally abnormal and that is why I ask you to study the possibility of generalising these good practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u110	Minister, thank you for your answers and attention to my questions. This is a subject for which I am particularly attentive, as is my colleague Mrs Rohonyi. Given the situation in certain police areas, specifically at the local level, and the lack of awareness of the law or the absence of a reference official, I believe that our role is to draw attention to and respond to this issue. Why not launch an information and prevention campaign, as you mentioned on other topics? In any case, I would like it to be studied in your office and that we can work together on the answers to this problem in order to make the fight against sexism equal for the victims. We realize that there are initiatives in Liège, but that is not the case in all police areas. I would like these initiatives to be widespread in the months and years to come. I am counting on you to listen to the proposals we have made to you today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u111	Question No 55014448C by Mr Hervé Rigot is transformed into a written question. Question No 55014471C by Mr Philippe Pivin is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Tim Vandenput converted 55014473C into a written question. Question No 55014480C by Mr Simon Moutquin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u112	Minister, on February 10, Commissioner Van Loock in charge of the Fugitive Active Search Team (FAST) took stock of the year 2020 in terms of the search for convicted and on the run, either having fled before their imprisonment or escaping from prison. It compared the figures for 2020 with those for 2019 and showed a decrease of almost a third. It is known that health circumstances and movement restrictions are being advanced as an explanation for this reduced rate. However, the person who is dangerous to our society and who is heavily condemned must, in my view, remain a priority of our police services. So, Madam Minister, what are the instructions and measures taken to raise the rate of arrest in this area and to ensure the effectiveness of research, all services combined?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u113	My colleague, the figures for 2020 are clearly explained by the health conditions. During the periods in 2020 when the police were faced with health restrictions, efforts were even more successful. It was sufficient to mention, for example, restrictions on international travel, which had resulted in a decrease in international missions. On the other hand, research tools were expanded in 2019. Currently, in the enforcement phase, special research measures, such as telephone searches, can be used. This is already being done, and gradually the authorities are in a position to draw general conclusions from it. This will enable the College of Attorneys General to develop a directive that will regulate the modalities for the implementation of this new legislation, including the role that each component of the integrated police could play. Meanwhile, within the Federal Police, commitments have already been made to support the FAST service, which has also been strengthened. The capacity, which in recent years was often below 10 police officers, currently stands at sixteen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u114	I thank the Minister for her response.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u115	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Vias Institute published on 15 January the so-called hilarious gas survey: a health problem, but also road safety. This survey was conducted among 6,000 Belgians and revealed that 6% of respondents admitted to driving, after consuming hilarious gas at least once a month. This figure is 14% when it concerns drivers under 34 and 15% when it concerns drivers in Brussels. The survey also notes that 5% of respondents admitted to driving under the influence of hilarious gas or other drugs. Madam Minister, I have no doubt that you have read the Vias Institute's investigation. Could you tell us how you feel about this? The hilarious gas usually gives a feeling of euphoria and an intoxication similar to that of alcohol. Like alcohol, it causes dizziness and reduced reactivity, which can be problematic for drivers who have consumed this gas. Are police initiatives being considered to gain a better understanding of the impact of consumption and, for the most part, the over-consumption of this product on driving? Are means of detection of this gas, during road checks, sought and, where appropriate, envisaged in the context of the control campaigns? Finally, Madam Minister, the consumption of hilarious gases by driving is accompanied, in the vast majority of cases, by the use of other drugs. Can you give us your views on this particular issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u116	Mr President, Mr Senesael, inhalation of hilarious gases does not in itself constitute an infringement of road safety regulations. This substance is not included in the list of substances that influence driving ability. The driving behaviour caused by inhalation of hilarious gases can nevertheless be verbalized. The hilarious gas precisely causes short-term euphoric and sedative effects, which can lead to speech disorders, dizziness, slow reaction, insensitivity to pain and noise, and sedation. If such symptoms are found, the person concerned is often in the condition referred to in article 35 of the Law on Road Traffic, according to which he must be considered not to be constantly in a position to perform all the manoeuvres and to have control of his vehicle. In such cases, a report shall be drawn up. Based on the information I have obtained from the toxicology department of the National Institute of Criminalistics and Criminology, it seems that the hilarious gas is not detectable in saliva. There is a method for detecting hilarious gases in the blood. This is about a technique of mass spectrometry, but in the literature we talk about overdose. Indeed, the difficulty with hilarious gas is that it is quickly eliminated by the body. It is therefore virtually undetectable on the ground. From year to year, police agencies are making an increased effort to combat driving under influence. Each year, the aim is to subject one in three drivers to driving control under influence. Moreover, in many places and in accordance with the guidelines of the local public prosecutor's offices, each party involved in a road accident is subjected not only to a breath test, but also systematically to a salivary test. However, the use of hilarious gases cannot be detected by a breath test or a salivary test. In the absence of screening, the police can only observe the use of the act when it leads to a state of drunkenness. In addition, if there is evidence of hilarious gas use in the event of a road accident, such as the presence of capsules in the vehicle, the police will mention this in the report. I have no figures in this regard. Finally, I can assure you that I continue to look for a more effective and preventive method to combat the use of hilarious gases while driving.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic390x.u117	Mr. Chairman, I think we are ending in beauty because I must warmly thank the minister for the comprehensive, comprehensive and qualitative nature of her response.
