ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u2	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, the health care staff who, today, are still on the frontlines to care for the sick and save lives expected a lot from this Codeco. This Codeco, it should be recalled, was convened three weeks after the epidemic emergency was declared. What a waste of time! Why all this? For an incoherent political bargaining, without course, without barometer, without perspective, without even guarantee of efficiency and therefore without guarantee to avoid further closures in the coming weeks. And this, even as you insisted yesterday, Prime Minister, on the need to avoid contradictions but also to take responsibility. I will mention three concrete examples. First, children over the age of 10 will not be subject to the same rules depending on whether their school is French-speaking or Dutch-speaking. Secondly, even though the breakdown is crucial especially in winter, there is still no protocol or commitment on the part of your government to finance these devices, contrary to what was decided by the Brussels government this week. Worse, your Minister of Health announces a ventilation plan for 2022, that is, when we are in a position to reopen our windows. Third, nightclubs may not be closed, but they will probably soon be forced to close because they will be shunned for private, unmasked parties without self-testing, constraints that were supposed to disappear with the obligation of the CST. How are you going to support SMEs in practical terms to organise telework but also to relieve teleworkers, especially in the face of the explosion of energy bills? Will you support the sectors subject to the CST+ in the event of a loss of turnover related to this CST? Finally, what about the compulsory vaccination of caregivers that was on Monday and then called into question by certain parties of the majority? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u3	Mr. Secretary, aren't you feeling dizzy? Are you not yet dizzy because of your many and large turns. About a month ago, you announced that you were against a general vaccination obligation. Last week, suddenly, a big turn followed and you were in favour of it. You were at first against the mandatory vaccination in the care, but you already took a turn in that regard. However, we do not hear a word about this at the press conference. But that was the silence before the storm, because a mandatory vaccination in the care comes by 1 April or is that a misplaced April joke? Let's take a moment to consider a commitment to care. In Belgium there are 416.038 care workers; 90% of them have been vaccinated. In other words, you want to fire 41,000 employees if they are not vaccinated, in a sector that is already begging for more staff. That's incomprehensible. Let it come to you, Minister, for a moment, 41,000 people deny you their vocation through your tunnel vision; 41,000 people pour you into unemployment through your dictatorial whims. But don't worry, the white rage awakens. In committee, I read you the open letter from the kinesis: there is no basis for compulsory vaccination, not in care, not among the citizens. At a vaccination rate of 70%, we would be allowed to enter the realm of freedom again. Nothing could be further from the truth. The coronapas came in the hospitality and nightlife, so that, according to Prime Minister Jan Jambon, we would be rid of the mouth masks. Nothing could be further from the truth. On the contrary, there will even be a CST+. You saddle the starting life with additional tests, extra checks, passes and mouth masks. Minister, how long will you keep our people fooling around with all kinds of bullying measures? When will you admit...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u4	Mr Minister, the covid vaccine protects us well from a serious illness. However, there are still more than 500 patients in our intensive care departments, of which about 50% are non-vaccines. The other half has been vaccinated, but has underlying chronic conditions or immunodeficiency disorders. So the vaccines really make a difference. Recently, The Financial Times reported a study showing that the number of hospitalised patients in non-vaccines is 16 times higher than in vaccinees. With a vaccination rate of 87% among the 18-plussers, we belong to the frontrunners, but we can still help. We can do this by first of all convincing the non-vaccines to get vaccinated, and secondly by speeding up the administration of the third shot, the so-called booster shot, which was decided yesterday by the Consultative Committee. In addition to vaccination centres, we also need the many volunteers who helped us in the first and second rounds of vaccination. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have you discussed with your colleagues in the Länder how to increase the capacity of existing vaccination centres to accelerate the delivery of the third injection? Is there any possibility of raising the voluntary allowance ceiling in 2022, as I did in the past? How soon will the care personnel, who are on the front line anyway, be able to be vaccinated?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u5	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, yesterday you and the Consultative Committee were faced with an extremely difficult task, because the hospitals are filling up again, the care staff are exhausted, the first line is flooded and operations and other care must be postponed. At the same time, we do not want to close the economy again, we are concerned about the mental well-being of all our citizens and we are therefore also concerned about the cultural sector. This morning I rose up with the question of whether all the measures that have been adopted will suffice to destroy the fourth wave. Shall we make it through this, go far enough? I'll give you an example of my almost 16-year-old teenager, who's in school with a mouth mask, hopefully soon will have a CO2 meter in the classroom, but who goes to the basket and the chiro after school and can go to café with friends. He also wants to participate in family parties, where generations are mixed together. He feels that all this can be reasonably safe, since he has been vaccinated. We give the impression that all this is still allowed, but as a mother I feel overwhelmingly responsible, because I am also concerned at every party that I may occupy the last bed of intensive care in the neighboring hospital. Do we not have too much responsibility with these mommies in discussion with their adolescents, with associations that decide to cancel all their activities or go online, with couples who have already had to postpone their marriage three times? Are we going far enough with these measures? Do we not rely too much on the sense of responsibility of individual citizens? What's the plan B if it's not enough?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u6	Madam President, Prime Minister, you have been unsightly. It's been weeks since health workers, doctors, virologists, epidemiologists sound the tocsin. Perhaps today we are going to go beyond the worst figures we have known since the beginning of this pandemic. Yet you missed yesterday's Codeco exercise. Half-worded, that's what your Minister of Health already seems to be calling for a new meeting. Indeed, this Codeco was misrepresented. There had been contradictory statements, particularly cacophonic in the head of the president of the PS. During the Codeco, there were political discussions rather than being focused on protecting the population. At the end of the Codeco, there are these measures that we wonder if they will live up to what is happening to us and the inconsistent measures. Some have already pointed out that children will have to wear the mask from the age of 10 but not at the school on the francophone side. We can't go to work anymore, but we can keep partying! Some measures are calling into question and the question is whether they are really relevant. But above all, we do not tackle the core of the problem. It's Pr. Nathan Clumeck from the ULB, who is quite right. We have a weapon that we all know is very effective: vaccination. We know that, despite what the plotists, the antivax and the fake news say. We know that this is one way in which we can regain our freedoms. But you're dragging your feet! You're dragging your feet on the children's vaccination. You're dragging your feet on the third dose. You are dragging your feet on the vaccination of the staff who are in charge of the most vulnerable people. You are also dragging your feet on generalised compulsory vaccination while we (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u7	Your time has expired, Mr. Dallemagne. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u8	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, words such as discrimination, pass society and I have even heard the word dictatorship here today are endless. There are rules for the health of everyone in society, as in any household, i.e. the general population. To the members of the Flemish Interest I would point out that there is a limit to individualistic discourse when it comes to caring for the general population. There is a limit to the spread of fake news when it comes to the general interest of the population. I sincerely regret that propaganda is still being used and that things are being said that are totally irrelevant and not even correct. At times like today, cooperation and leadership are needed. At times like today, we must dare to make choices and take responsibility. When a basic right of care is no longer a guarantee for our people, we must make choices, which are sometimes far-reaching. Minister Beke already asked for booster vaccines last summer. I regret that the federal government has not responded to this, because the reality on the ground is harsh, just look at the facts. The care staff collapses under pressure, care is no longer guaranteed to every Belgian and society is simply under full pressure. We have a strong response to what is happening now. Prime Minister, Minister, how do you see the further roll-out of the vaccination plan? Are we going for a general obligation of the vaccine? We have a weapon that works. Put it in, put it in soon and save our care system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u9	Madam President, Prime Minister, a few days ago, the privacy association, Charta21, revealed the existence of a security flaw in the Bruvax Brussels platform, which makes it possible to make an appointment to get vaccinated. As a result of this flaw, any person or organization that has your national number, including employers, bankers, insurers, may know whether you are vaccinated or not. This purely illegal situation is very serious, as Charta21 denounces. Again recently, you stated that making vaccination status accessible by the bosses was not on the agenda. There is therefore no legal and political basis which could explain this flaw and which could justify making our medical data available. I want to make it clear here that the fault does not mean bug. This is a political choice that was made on the basis of a cooperation agreement that the federal government voted for and that we denounced, in particular because it did not guarantee the protection of privacy. But at the time, we were told not to worry, that everything was under control. Yet, every month, there is a scandal about privacy. It must therefore be noted that the political choice that has been made makes it possible to break a door already open in our country. Prime Minister, when the flaw is found, we have to react. But what was the reaction? No one! There has been no reaction when there is a legal procedure to follow in this type of situation. First, it would have been necessary to correct the flaw or stop the platform until the data were secure. It would then have been necessary to contact the Data Protection Authority to notify it of the flaw and, finally, to inform the persons concerned. Prime Minister, what are you going to do to ensure the privacy of our citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u10	Prime Minister, the fact is that, despite a more than honourable vaccination rate, contamination is on the rise today. They doubled as well as hospitalizations. The virus is said to be three times more contagious than last year. Important steps needed to be taken. I welcome these measures, which seem to me to be balanced. Basic awareness-raising measures are being strengthened: masks, barrier gestures; but it is also a compromise because one can continue to live because no sector is closed. It was very important! The strongest of these measures is obviously telework. Four days of telework a week, it's a hard blow for companies that, as they say and repeat, have already done a lot of work. They were responsible. But it's a hard blow for employees too. We talked a lot about psychosocial risks, the risks of dropping out of work. I repeat that these measures were important and urgent, and that they were necessary. My questions are practical-practical. We go on to four days of telework for three weeks, then we go on to three days. Is this change that will take place in three weeks' time, if everything goes well, not likely to complicate the lives of businesses? Was this decision taken in consultation with them? Much has been said in recent months about the breakdown of all indoor spaces, particularly in companies. Should we not consider extending and generalising this breakdown in companies, for example through a protocol? I am thinking of companies with large landscapers or simply meeting rooms. I think we should start thinking slowly about this. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u11	Prime Minister, your experts promised group immunity and the realm of freedom if 70% of the population were vaccinated. In West Flanders the vaccination rate is more than 95% and yet we have the highest number of infections. A fourth wave is coming. Once again, we are not getting beyond the same measures as before, more repression, the pass protocol and the maskade that is starting again. If the experts change their opinion because they are mistaken, it is called a moving insight. If the population is a victim of policy, it seems that it has not followed the rules well enough. The measures are always taken to avoid overloading care. I lit my own light once and called two hospitals. In these two hospitals there are about 60 patients with covid, of whom fortunately barely three patients are on intensive care. Those hospitals told me what the situation is. Approximately half of the patients were vaccinated and the infected vaccinated patients were mainly elderly people and people with underlying conditions. The other half of the patients had not been vaccinated. As far as care workers are concerned, they were people who were in quarantine. I was surprised, however, that there were no children and no minors. Nowhere in the country are the children ill, yet we are holding them hostage. Madness is always doing the same thing and expecting a different outcome, Prime Minister. Einstein said that. When will we give children freedom? Why don't you switch the gun from shoulder to shoulder in the fight against the virus and not let people become immune? This immunity is being promoted in other countries, but the children are also being held hostage in our country. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u12	Madam President, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, the care staff absolutely deserves our support. I would like to hear some of my colleagues say today that it deserves that support, but the question is what this support means in practice. I hear several colleagues here criticising the measures. This is therefore worth the support of some parties, neither words nor deeds, while the care staff has started their fourth marathon. The situation is different from last year, and fortunately, with these contagion rates everything would have been closed by then, we were already at home and the sectors were closed again. That is not necessary today, and that is not magic, but the effect of vaccines and the solidarity of many people. However, this is not enough, especially in the healthcare sector where people are most often in contact with the vulnerable people they need to protect. Therefore, the third injection and vaccination obligation for the care staff is only logical: those who work in the care sector have the task of protecting the health of others. Colleagues, the pressure on care has only increased. There are too few people to do too much work with. Whether I'm talking to an emergency doctor, recently in West Flanders, or with a nurse or a care professional, all are asking for support, for more hands on the bed. So be proud of the high number of enrolments in healthcare training - that says something about our people and also about historical investments in the healthcare sector, 2.4 billion. And there's gonna be more. It is now our duty to limit the loss of staff by covid and to ensure that compulsory vaccination is carried out properly. This is the only way to relieve the burden. My question therefore concerns the timetable for compulsory vaccination (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u13	Madam Chair, Prime Minister, Minister, it was the twenty-second concertation committee yesterday. No one would have imagined we'd be there today. Neither the political world nor the scientific world, much less the citizens. Yet, almost two years after the start of the health crisis, we are still busy trying to manage, trying to stop this epidemic. And it is hard because, yes, the measures announced yesterday do not please. Too flexible for some, too hard for others. We really thought that with the collective effort that had been carried out in our country, we would be out of business, but it is not even if, clearly, without the vaccines, the situation would have been even more dramatic. The problem is the variants with this Delta variant which is now dominant. The problem is probably the too rapid abandonment of barrier gestures, the breakdown of which has too often been minimized and the impression that vaccination will change everything. However, in reality, it is all these means (barrier gestures, vaccination, aeration) that make it possible to combat the virus effectively. Prime Minister, Minister, the numbers are bad a little more every day. The number of contaminations is exploding. Hospitals have their eyes riveted on their beds, on their weakened and defiled caregivers who are at the end of the roll, and on the care and procedures they are forced to postpone. It was therefore necessary to act. You did. Action was taken yesterday. Has a new Consultation Committee already been set up to assess this situation? How do you plan to convince and join a population that is clearly tired of going back and forth? A third dose of vaccine will be available to the general population by March-April. Don't you worry that this dose is too late?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u14	Gentlemen ministers, yesterday in my pharmacy I tested a number of patients for covid, because some of my staff, like so many caregivers, have fallen out. One of the patients told me that he had contacted five GPs and about as many fellow pharmacists. Ten calls to find a care provider who wasn't in quarantine or not overloaded. You're late. Again you are late with the third shot for the caregivers. It seems like the vivaldi policy in this pandemic: too late. Gentlemen, where is the foresight that we so need and which we already had in the first wave? Care is on her gums, you know that. In April, our care providers will have to make a choice between discharge or vaccine. Do you have a plan to ensure that we have sufficient care providers at that time? Or are you counting on the vaccinated caregivers to re-run double shifts? The N-VA Group already asked in the spring to prepare and roll out the third shot. When I confronted you, Minister Vandenbroucke, with that third shot in September, you fell out of the sky and you were talking about vaccination in the Third World, just like after the Flemish Government called last month. You weren't working on the third shot at all. You even forgot to renew the law necessary to ensure that vaccination centres have sufficient staff. When are you gonna fix that? There are vaccination centres that run on less than half their staff today. It's very urgent...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u15	PS, MR, Ecolo, how dare you decide to lay off the medical staff who are not vaccinated? Open Vld, CD&V, Green and Forward, how did you decide to just throw out the unvaccinated care staff? A year ago, we were applauding them! They gave everything they had in their stomach. They're going to take this whole crisis and point at them by telling them that if they don't get vaccinated, they're going to be thrown out. How dare you make such a decision when we lack staff? Out of 2,000 ICU beds, you can no longer guarantee 136 because there is a shortage of staff. And we're gonna put it out again! That's bullshit! Today, 19,000 graduates do not work in the sector because it is not attractive enough. And you decide to put them out. The trade unions told you before Monday's meeting that they didn't want that. The trade union organizations had already said before Monday's meeting that you should not do this. However, the left-wing parties agreed to this. How can you make such a decision? That's amazing! The measures are really inconsistent. Mr. Vandenbroucke, do you really believe that? It is not serious that we should stand in a dancing on Angèle with a mask on. Mr. Secretary, that's not serious anymore, is it? What is missing today is a real plan to strengthen the first line, an offensive ventilation plan in schools. Not the Divide the population, as you are doing right now, Prime Minister, that is not the solution. That's what needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u16	Thank you for the questions I will answer together with Minister Vandenbroucke. The first observation is that vaccination is fortunately possible and that 8.6 million Belgians were vaccinated. If they hadn't, the only solution today would have been to go into lockdown. Because they have chosen to be vaccinated and, above all, to protect their fellow human beings through vaccination, this is not necessary today. Mr Dedecker, you say that we do the same thing over and over again. Are we doing the same thing today as we did last fall? Absolutely not. Today we are making a completely different choice, namely a choice of prevention and protection and a choice not to close. Last year we had no choice but to close down the catering industry, but to take very far-reaching measures in schools, rather than to ban sport. Thanks to the masks, thanks to our knowledge of the measures to be taken to keep our contacts as safe as possible, thanks to the many vaccinations we should not do at all what we did last time. Today, we manage to roll out a method that relies on the collective responsibility of everyone, and that is what it is all about. We must not point the finger at each other, one sector against another, one government against another, no, that way it will not succeed. On the other hand, we all have to face up to our responsibilities together. As far as political decision-making is concerned, I am here with Mr Vandenbroucke as the representative of the Consultative Committee. All the parties who have asked me questions, except three, are represented and have taken decisions. Apart from three parties, Mr Dallemagne, all the others are represented on the Concertation Committee. These people who decide around the table are responsible people who understand the weight of the necessary measures. Now, please, let us stop pointing the finger as if we had not been forward-looking. Whoever claims that, I would like to confront their own statements over the last month. Look at the statements you and your group have made over the last month and compare them with what you are doing here. That is not the way a crisis policy is conducted at a difficult time. At a difficult time, responsibility is taken up. I note that the Consultative Committee succeeds in making responsible decisions. I would also like to answer some specific questions that have been asked. Mrs Rohonyi, you say that this will lead to more private parties. Maybe! But it has been decided that the rules that apply to public events apply in the same way for private events. If you are hosting a 150-person party, the same rules apply. As far as the third injection is concerned, the Länder have played a crucial role in the roll-out of vaccination, and they have done so brilliantly. I assume that the Länder will repeat, for the third time, the excellent organisation of the previous rounds, in cooperation, of course, with the federal level. The question of raising the ceiling on voluntary allowances is on the agenda of tomorrow's Council of Ministers, Mrs De Block, and we will be able to reply to it quickly. As far as telework is concerned, we all know that it is not obvious, but we have based ourselves on the past. These return days are used to account for organizational difficulties. Mr Dallemagne, I would like to respond to the issue of compulsory vaccination. For the medical staff, Mr. Vandenbroucke will respond. The real question is how to further increase the rate of vaccination. There are different methods but compulsory vaccination has at present been chosen by only four countries around the world: Indonesia, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan and Micronesia. I do not know any European colleague who told me that he was thinking about this. I am convinced that there are a multitude of avenues. We're going to ask our services to analyze them. On the other hand, I understood that the reasons for choosing those who do not vaccinate are complex. It's a lack of trust, a lack of access, a lack of information. Personally, I think convincing is more effective than forcing!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u17	Madam President, I will start by saying something a little polemical and then I will stop. Mrs Depoorter, I have the report of your last intervention when we were discussing the pandemic law. You said, "Mr. Secretary, you have not reassured people. The vaccinees are protected." The report says literally: "Everyone can become ill. Unfortunately, it is a fact that we, policy makers, cannot circumvent that fact. Stop panicking in communication." Mrs Sneppe, a fellow party member of yours said in the committee debate on the pandemic law, "Well, it's like a flu." I thought I heard Bolsonaro. But I'm not going to continue this polemic. Speaking of foresight, let us try to face this situation soberly. The situation is extremely alarming. It's all hands on deck. I dare not say here that it will be enough. I can only say that we will have to implement this compromise that we have made in the Conciliation Committee in full in all sectors, in all companies, in all cafés, in all schools, everywhere. That's what we have to do. It's science and solidarity. Science is indeed evolving. I think that we should not blame the scientists. Last night Johan Neyts said in this matter that we decided too late that there should be a third shot for the care staff, but on October 24th Johan Neyts said that the third shot was not necessary. I don't blame him. That's a moving insight. That is also the role of scientists. We decide on that basis. To date, 891,000 Belgians have already had a third shot. More than 3.300.000 Belgians will be invited in the planning. That's a third of the eligible population. The rest will follow. We will do that, and that is absolutely necessary. That's for sure. At the same time, we must take action. Mr Dedecker, you're telling us not to take the children hostage. You prefer that the children walk without a mouth mask, then go into quarantine and close classes and schools. Would you prefer that? You're saying we should let the immunity play. Then there will be thousands more deaths. That's the immunity scenario. That's Darwin, but you're for Darwin. That means thousands more dead. That's what you're here to tell me. Mr Hedebouw, we believe that there is a need to support the healthcare staff. And to support it is to be consistent with the measures taken and not to propose a plan which, tomorrow morning, will not help in any way. We need to be a little concrete and consistent, and now take measures to manage the crisis and then support them. Secondly, we are convinced that the duty of every care provider is to protect his patients and protect himself. If there are so many beds that are no longer available today, it is also because covid is present in hospitals. This is what we must warn, instead of doing theatre! You have to be consistent, it's a duty. If it is a duty, we can give time but we cannot say that without consequences. We have, of course, opened a broader debate. Should the vaccination obligation be extended to the entire population? It's a debate that needs to be held, like others. But tomorrow morning, we need real solidarity. Not theater!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u18	Minister, Prime Minister, we know how crucial the public's commitment to measures and vaccination is in our fight against the virus. What you did through the measures adopted yesterday at the Conciliation Committee is the opposite. You have done everything you can to lose this precious membership. First of all with regard to vaccination, you change the rules during the game. It is optional, mandatory for caregivers, and could become mandatory for the entire population. I hear reassuring comments from the Prime Minister to convince the public before forcing it to do so, Prime Minister, but perhaps we should first convince your majority partners on this. Then, when it comes to the Covid Safe Ticket, it was meant to allow us to regain our freedoms and then be accompanied by self-tests for payment or the wearing of the mask. Therefore, as much as we can understand that the measures must evolve according to the knowledge of the virus or new variants, so much we cannot understand that you are again weighing all the efforts on the citizens, on the self-employed, without any support measures, on the other hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u19	Mr. Secretary, I would like to return to what you said first. We would be advised by a Bolsonaro. It wasn't the Flemish interest that said it was just a flu. That was a statement by Mr Van Ranst and Mrs Maggie De Block. This, however, is quite aside. I insist that your entire Corona policy is a mess. It would be a pleasure for you to finally admit that. It's not too late, but it's almost there. For the Flemish interest it is very simple and clear. Mrs Farih, listen carefully, mandatory vaccination cannot and must not be carried out, especially now that we know that vaccination is not the holy grail either. Is that fake news? Protect our vulnerable and let the well-functioning immune system of healthy and strong people fight the virus, without restrictions on freedom. Is that fake news? Leave our children and young people alone. You've taken them from their carefree youth for a year and a half. Is that fake news? Finally provide antivirals such as ivermectin...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u20	Mrs Sneppe, your speaking time is over. I call Mrs De Block for the next reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u21	Minister, thank you for the good news that the higher voluntary allowance will be on the agenda of the Council of Ministers tomorrow. It is an extension, but it is a useful measure because we have been able to count on those volunteers to administer the first and second shots, and now also for the third shot. I would like to respond to what Mrs Sneppe said. I recommend that she pay a well-protected visit to an intensive care department.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u22	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. I also hear sparkles of hope. The current wave is not the same as the previous three waves. We have a hugely high vaccination rate. The vaccination campaigns went well. The third shot will go well, too. At the same time, however, I remain concerned because the care staff is exhausted and the wave has to endure again. From the forecasts they already know that they will not be able to enjoy Christmas at home. The virus is not as easy to overcome as we had hoped. What many people are afraid of now, however, is that it is not enough and we will have to say in mid-December that we will have to take stricter measures again and that Christmas will not be as pleasant as we hope. So, Prime Minister, I share your call and I would very much like to hear you say that together we will all have to be very careful once again to bring down the virus circulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u23	Prime Minister, more than 1,000 Belgians are going to die this month from covid, and probably as much next month as three quarters of these deaths could have been prevented, thanks in particular to vaccination. I continue to believe that it is not the obligation to vaccinate that will weaken our democracy, that it is not the obligation to vaccinate that will weaken our freedoms, rather it is the lack of sense of responsibility, the lack of sense of solidarity invoked by your Minister of Health. Indeed, with this measure, we could protect the most vulnerable and weak, which we cannot do today because of the fake news, the plotters, the lack of decision-making and the sense of responsibility. We need to know that we will still have to deal with this virus for years to come. We will therefore arrive early at the end of the vaccination obligation, and it is better sooner than later. It is time to have a serious debate in this Parliament in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u24	Prime Minister, you spoke of a fausse bonne idée, but I think such an idea can be a good idea in times of crisis. Minister, we fully support this commitment. I firmly believe that mandatory vaccination can mobilise even more people, especially so that the most vulnerable people on the ICU beds can receive protected care. Mrs. Sneppe, I have no words for what you're raving about here. From today on, I simply consider you a problem for this Parliament and a danger to society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u25	Madam Chair, normally we reply to an answer except that I did not have an answer. I wondered. Why did you put my privacy question in the Codeco's general debate? I can now see, Mr Vandenbroucke, that it was in order not to answer that question that you put it in this general debate. Don't you think what's going on is serious enough? Our immunization and health data are accessible to all. Do you find this normal to the point of not giving a minute of answer to this problem? Do you know why I arrested you? Because it was part of a cooperation agreement to which the federal government is a signatory. When you introduced it to the Health Committee, you were warned about the dangers it posed because it does not respect privacy rules and allows for loopholes. That's exactly what's going on today, and you deny it! No responsibility! You speak of the accountability and responsibility of our fellow citizens, first of all by respecting yours!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u26	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. I continue to say that the measures taken are balanced because they allow us to continue to live while protecting ourselves, and that seems essential to me. These are balanced measures. I stress once again the company on both the employers' side but also on the employees' side and on their ability to live with a little telework, then more telework at all, then again telework. I am sure that you will do the work with your colleague, Minister Dermagne, to ensure that this telework, which will increasingly integrate our lives, is adapted to the reality of the field and allows everyone to live, to continue to work and to flourish at the professional level, in truly adapted conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u27	Mr Vandenbroucke, you are a populist scaremonger. Despite vaccination almost all the population, we still have so many infections. You should take a look elsewhere. Let me give you the example of Sweden. In Sweden the schools were never closed. Today there are 37 people in intensive care in Sweden. There are 20,000 tests a day and there are 800 infections. Why is that? That is because the people have been granted immunity. You don't know that word. Inoculations and repression are the only ones you know. There are 1 million children. They get infected but not sick. And you're holding those kids hostage. You do this in order to cover up your own mischief in the area of vaccination, among other things. To return to your story, I believe in Darwin. I believe in Darwin more than I do in Stalin.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u28	Prime Minister, Minister, you rightly said that care workers have an important responsibility, but it certainly does not bear that responsibility alone. The only way to make it through the winter is for everyone to take responsibility. This requires something from the care staff, which also requires something from society, and that also requires something from politics, perhaps especially from politics. No empty slogans. No fake news. No offer of relaxations. Let that be the lesson. Stick to the measures. Work together. That's the only way to get out of the crisis together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u29	Prime Minister, Minister, it's hard, citizens are tired of it, hospitals are tired of it, caregivers, you, me, we're all sick of it! However, it is your responsibility to take action on the basis of the opinion of the experts but also in consultation with hospitals and healthcare staff. Is there anyone here to say that in the PS, we will be able to touch the social rights of nurses without going through social consultation? I say it clearly: these are wrong! Prime Minister, Minister, we must continue to strengthen solidarity between citizens and avoid at all costs that they stand against each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u30	Prime Minister, I would very much like to look back on the foresight of the N-VA Group. I shall confine myself to the last few weeks. We called for a third shot in the summer, while you, as Minister of Health, were trying to save the world instead of its own inhabitants. We called you in September to vaccinate the care. That was the time to give the third vaccine, then they wouldn't have gotten sick today. We've also called for sewer water monitoring. Mr Frieda Gijbels has done so and you are now applying it. Thank you, N-VA. We have also called for pragmatism. Mr Minister, arrêtez le theâtre, we have said, stop the theater and get clear information. Restrict yourself to the people who really get sick and please let our children gain basic immunity. It's outrageous...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u31	Minister, I come here to tell you what the care staff think of this, what the trade unions think of it, you call it 'theater'. I'm sorry, especially for a left-wing minister. Come on, it's not a theater. I'm just here to convey what's said at the workplace in the hospitals. The PS group does not appear to be aware, but the minister has translated the government's position. You said "everyone," minister. Mr Dermagne therefore agrees. Do you confirm that, minister? So I hear the PS group disagrees with its minister. I can understand that. Then we have to fight. We must therefore vote against the measures taken today, which will lead to the dismissal of unvaccinated healthcare workers in April 2022. Minister, you recalled that the reasons why people are not vaccinated are complex. This complexity also applies to caregivers. Why do you want to solve this problem with obligation and dismissal? We are going to fight against this measure and we are going to push you back on this, because the healthcare staff deserves respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u32	Madam President, Mr De Croo, I asked you about this last week, but your government has gone further than that. The Communist dictator Lukashenko wants to destabilise Europe by sending thousands of illegal migrants in our direction. With a little common sense, you'd close the borders. That is the position of 12 European Member States. They call for, where necessary, physical border barriers to be installed at our common external borders and, logically, to be financed jointly. Even European President Michel agrees, but the Belgian Government does not. That is where common sense seems to be completely shriveled. Maybe you guys should lower that mouth mask once in a while and take some oxygen. Vice Prime Minister, Mrs De Sutter, and Secretary of State, Mr Mahdi, simply want to let these illegal migrants in. If Mr Mahdi wants to let them in, deal with their application quickly and send back those who are not entitled to asylum, these are lies. Treating those applications is never going to happen fast. It often takes years. Even if their application for asylum is rejected, they will never be returned. So whoever lets them in knows very well that they will remain permanent. The signal that your government members are sending is that those who cross the European border illegally and even by force through Belarus will be rewarded with a permanent stay. That in itself is insane and crapulous enough. Your government, however, is doing a bit more than that. After all, your coalition partner Green is now calling for full hotels to be rented in Belgium to accommodate additional asylum seekers. Apparently, 30,000 isn't enough. Can you make it clear here whether your Secretary of State speaks to Mr Mahdi and your green coalition partners on behalf of the government when they call for illegal immigrants to enter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u33	Madam President, Prime Minister, Europeans were the first to condemn Trump's wall on the Mexican border. Today, however, the question arises at home. It is on the border with Poland and Lithuania that Belarus today sends completely dehumanized migrants, such as cannon flesh. So which side will Belgium choose? Will she choose the camp of shame and shame, the camp of those who want to let die of cold, on the border with Belarus, those migrants from Afghanistan or Syria who are now forced to feed on grass and drink the water of the swamps in order to survive? Or will she choose the camp of those who resist the despots, the dictators, and help the weakest? I am ashamed of those fachos who choose the camp of cowards and who want to let helpless migrants die today. It's about kids, it's about kids! To the members of the far right who are deaf and who are playing smart and hard here in plenary, I tell them that our enemies are not Kurdish infants. Our enemies are the despots, like Lukashenko, Putin's ally, who now organizes and orchestrates this macabre blackmail against these migrants. Prime Minister, what happens to our humanity if we let these migrants die in the cold? What happens to our Union if we build walls rather than bridges? Will we really impose sanctions on these airlines and transport companies that are now making money on the back of human misery? Our pride, ladies and gentlemen, is not the barbed wire of Poland. What makes the European project great is our dignity. That is what must underpin our commitment at the border of the Union!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u34	Thank you for these questions, honourable Members. In recent months, we have seen differences of opinion with countries such as Poland, but it must be made clear: in terms of defending the external borders of the European Union, we must show solidarity and work with Poland. I'll explain to you the method to follow. One way of doing this requires the use of FRONTEX. Frontex is the European agency which, five years ago, was a paper tiger that could indeed be criticized, had a budget of EUR 140 million. Today it has a budget of 540 million and more than ten thousand employees, Frontex border guards on the ground. They ensure that the European Union defends its external borders against criminal behaviour. I'm still talking about that. It is normal that we do not allow ourselves simply to be put under pressure by people who take advantage of it. Of course, we do so with respect for international law and human rights. Of course, this is a discussion about infrastructure, but also about people, including the respect of international conventions and the observance of procedures. These procedures have a reason: they exist to defend people's rights and must be followed. Agencies like Frontex show that we have the necessary European solidarity. Of course, we have to make sure Frontex can do his job. Today that is not the case, the admission of Frontex to be active is not yet available. From our country we regret that this is not here today. One last element. Mr Vanlangenhove, I hope you will agree that we can never accept the instrumentalisation and use of human lives as a means of exerting pressure on authoritarian states whose sole aim is to destabilise Europe. I hope that you agree, that we should never go along with that kind of scenario and that Europe should rise above it. Of course, we must protect our borders, but we must also ensure that international conventions and human rights can be properly respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u35	Mr. Prime Minister, it's amazing. How difficult can it be to answer my question in concrete terms? I'll repeat them, and I'll give you another chance to answer them. Do Deputy Prime Minister De Sutter and Secretary of State Mahdi speak on behalf of the government when they declare that they want to let illegal migrants into Europe at the Polish border and grant them asylum? Yes or no? I do not understand why our expensive assembly serves, for which the charade serves here if you cannot answer a simple and concrete question from me. Do Deputy Prime Minister De Sutter and Secretary of State speak on behalf of the government when they say that we can allow illegal migrants coming to Belarus by plane and often by force with the help of the Communist dictator Lukashenko to cross the border of Europe and grant asylum? Do they speak in the name of the government, yes or no? You didn't answer. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u36	Mr Van Langenhove, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u37	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u38	Mr Van Langenhove, I would like to call you to order.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u39	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Yes, Europe is freedom! Yes, Europe is dignity! We are 450 million Europeans and some would like to impose barbed wire to let die in the cold of the Belarusian forest some miserable migrants who are trying to cross borders to have a better future. Europe is freedom! Let's not steal the red carpet to the far right! We are stronger than the hatred of those dictators who are instrumentalizing innocent human lives. Let's not give in to Lukashenko's blackmail! Let's show that we're strong! Let us show that we do not allow ourselves to be destabilized by the far right and by this hatred coming from elsewhere!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u40	Colleagues, this concludes with questions addressed to the Prime Minister. Before I continue our work, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the replies should not be an opportunity to ask new questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u41	Mr Minister, paying to be allowed to work is unbelievable, but it is nevertheless a reality. Poot helpers from all over the country are protesting today to challenge that injustice and to make their voice heard. Minister, I was there this morning. Their stories are poignant. Poot helpers have to impose money to get to work. Their travel costs are barely reimbursed. They obviously have low wages and receive very little recognition. Moreover, those who clean businesses receive the 500 euro corona premium, but the housekeepers have no guarantee of that. However, they do the same work, with the same tractors, but do not receive the same appreciation. Why don't you explain that to them? It's an accumulation of problems. First there was the lack of mouth masks, then the refusal of vaccination leave and now there is the lack of travel allowance. People have had enough of that. They're just asking for more recognition. Meanwhile, employers still don't give home. Minister, your position can clarify the discussion at the next meeting. Vooruit's message is simple, work must always pay. At present, the transfer costs of cleaning aid are up to three times higher than the remuneration they receive for this. That doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense and it's not fair. The only reason why this is happening is because employers think this is possible and they get away with it. The voice of those people doesn't count for them. Today, the cleaning aid showed that the employers and Federgon are miscalculating in this area. Minister, what are you going to do to show that you stand for those who work hard but get little in return? What is your message for the cleaning aid here in Brussels today?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u42	Madam President, Minister, this morning, eight hundred women in the service securities sector demonstrated in Brussels. They struggle for better working conditions and wage increases. I wonder if you know how much these women earn. They earn 1,170 euros a month! Do you realize? This morning, they explained to us that they could no longer continue in this way. How to pay bills, electricity, school fees for children with 1 170 euros per month? That's impossible. They want to live with dignity! During this action, in surreal Belgium, a tweet by a chairman of a government party, Mr Rousseau, came in. I quote his tweet: "No domestic helpers, but domestic heroes. I'm competing for higher wages." However, the government has blocked wages. The maximum wage increase that household help can get.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That doesn't even fit in a shopping cart. That is the responsibility of this government by blocking the wage increase at 0.4%. Just now, Minister Vandenbroucke said that we need less theatre and more concrete solidarity. In this too, we need less theatre and more concrete solidarity, which means that the law on wage freeze is repealed and that there will be an effective increase in minimum wages (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u43	Madam President, Minister, pay to go to work is no. These are the words of a trade unionist who was demonstrating with me this morning in the streets of Brussels to support these workers in the securities and services sector. These women, they're angry and tired of fighting. To fight for decent working conditions. The last wall they face is Federgon's refusal to increase travel allowances, which are scandalously low, i.e. 13 cents per kilometre. Thirteen cents is three times less than the state's set, while we know that today's prices at the pump are flying away. I am not going to remind you here of the hourly salary of a service worker, who is less than 12 euros per hour, and the bosses complain. They complain that they do not find labour and denounce a shortage in the sector. But I wonder: would they be prepared to receive only precarious contracts of a few hours? Would they be ready to go to work for less than 1,000 euros a month? Running from one home to another, breaking your back for an increase of 0.4%, and all this by having to get out of their pocket their travel expenses? No, but, frankly, who do they finally make fun of? I'm going to tell you: they don't care about those workers who earn a misery, those workers who, for many, are isolated mothers, who have to cheat, sometimes with several labour contracts, in order to be able to close the end of the month. Women who are struggling and who, in the end, find themselves living in precarious conditions. Your colleague Christie Morreale tabled a decree on the table in the Walloon Parliament to improve the working conditions of domestic workers. You yourself announced this afternoon your intention to tackle the precarious status, the tenibility of the jobs in need and the social dumping, referring to the cleaning sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u44	Minister, this Thursday, November 18th; the women in the service titles are on the street. I say workers because you know like me that 98% of women are women. They question: "Do you find it normal to have to pay in order to be able to work in the service titles?" They challenge employers, users, but you too, minister, and we parliamentarians. Their travel is reimbursed for 13 cents per kilometre, compared to 37 cents per kilometre in many other areas. In more rural areas like the one from which I come, women workers travel several kilometres a day, and sometimes tens of kilometres a day. And every kilometer costs them, in addition to the parking charges they have to pay. That is what they strongly denounce today. But they're not just denouncing that. They're on the street because the vase overflows. I heard at noon: "Now is the time to do something. We can't anymore!" Already, 0.4% was not huge, but if you have to pay to go to work, with small wages, without the Corona bonus, and after periods of temporary unemployment, the world walks on its head! You know as well as I do, Minister, that almost half of the women in the service titles report medical benefits for lack of resources. As an environmentalist, I'm under arrest. I feel concerned because, minister, there is no secret. A sector in which wages are very low, in which part time is almost the norm, in which work is very heavy, is a sector that is becoming critical or even in short supply. So let's open our eyes and support them because they're asking for recognition, minister. What are you going to do to support the successful conclusion of the negotiations? Have you met these workers? How will you support their requests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u45	Madam President, I would like to thank the questioners for bringing the situation of these workers to the attention of this House as well. Their work is essential in the daily lives of many people. Today's action is linked to the important sectoral consultation on wage and working conditions. The formation of wages is, of course, at the heart of social consultation. I don't have to remind you, you mentioned it a few moments ago. This sector of service securities has the peculiarity of being a sector highly subsidized by the public authorities, mainly by the regional authorities. As you mentioned, Ms. Thémont, some recent decisions have been made by the Walloon government and Minister Morreale, in particular to improve pay and working conditions in this sector. This is also true at the level of the Flemish Government with the decision of Minister Crevits to increase public intervention in the indexation of interventions to enterprises, which were for Wallonia and Brussels by 100% but by 73% in Flanders. I can only welcome this increase as long as it is conditioned and has an impact on working conditions and on the remuneration of workers who are mostly workers in this sector. As regards the state of progress in the sectoral negotiations, I can inform you of the following. I am very close to these sectoral and sub-sectoral negotiations in this sector of activity. The parties have met several times since mid-September and the last consultation meeting took place on 9 November. Progress has been made on a number of issues, such as integrating the maximum margin of 0.4% but also qualitative measures to improve working conditions in the sector. But, as you pointed out, for trade unions, there is one essential element missing – rightly, I think – that is, fair and fair compensation for travel costs, which can be important in this sector, especially in rural areas, especially with cut times. In the absence of a solution on this point, the trade unions decided, after the last meeting, to maintain this morning's day of action. As I said, my administration and I are in contact and follow these negotiations closely. The social mediator is in permanent contact with the various parties. I understand there will be further consultations. A meeting of the sub-paritarian committee 322.01 is also scheduled for tomorrow morning. I hope that these negotiations will succeed and ensure that the travel costs of these staff are properly taken into account and compensated. It is indeed abnormal to have to pay to go to work! I would like to say a few words about the situation of domestic aid after the measures decided yesterday by the Conciliation Committee. More telework will limit the circulation of the virus, but also means that people will be home more often when the home helpers come to work. I therefore call on everyone to adhere strictly to the agreed measures and to respect the rules. It is also a matter of respect for these men but especially for those women who come to the homes of people to help them and provide them with daily support in their everyday lives. These trades are essential trades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u46	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I would also point out to Mr Mertens that, of course, we will continue to fight for fair wages. We have never under stood our position on the wage standard. The difference is that we will take concrete steps: the special social security contribution measure will strengthen net both low wages and net middle wages from April onwards. Finally, I understand from the Minister that subsidies are indeed being increased. Unfortunately, however, this does not change the position of employers. In the meantime, home help has become a bottleneck profession. That is what happens when employees are underpaid and not appreciated, when workers are not protected during the corona crisis, when employees are constantly pushed to the extreme. That's gotta stop. This demonstrates the importance of fair pay and good working conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u47	Here three government parties question the government about powers that the government is not about. The transport costs are extremely important, I've heard that too. In this House, we are all paid three times more transport costs than any household help. That is an important matter. But the three parties remain silent about two keys in their hands. They talk about the rules and about anything, but not about the two crucial keys that the government has in its hands, when it comes to being underpaid and lack of respect. Firstly, there is the wage standard. In the sector, 22 million euros are made in profit, thanks to the work of the domestic helpers. There is therefore more margin than 0.4%. Secondly, there is the minimum wage, which the trade unions specifically demand to raise to EUR 14, which we support. Those two keys are in your hands. Instead of answering next to the question, you would better answer the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u48	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. Poor women workers should no longer exist in the twenty-first century. If this continues, we will no longer be able to speak of the emancipation of women, but of returning to the Middle Ages. This is not permissible for either women or men. Anyway, I've heard your answers and I'm really counting on you. As for you, Mr Mertens of the PTB, you spent 400,000 euros on your own personal promotion on social networks. Do you know what it would do to give 4,000 women workers service titles? One hundred euros net per month. So I'm telling you, I don't want to receive lessons from the PTB.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u49	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand that you are considering the increase in intervention and that it affects the quality of the job. It is a point of attention that I want to stress because not all companies do the same thing, of course. They do not all do the same with what they have, with their subsidies and with the quality of the job. Travel expenses must be reimbursed. Make your will known because they do an essential job. These household aids are sometimes the only external link for the elderly. They do a job that must be recognized as penitential, a work that is heavy. Many of them have reduced their working hours or left their jobs before the pension. These specificities must be taken into account when talking about difficult jobs. These specificities must be taken into account when talking about well-being at work. To take this into account is to show our respect for all these workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u50	Minister, I am sure you will remember the unorthodox tours that we have had to make here in Parliament to ensure that a coronavoucher bank is set up. This has been done through amendments to a draft law on explosives. The only connection I can see is that it's become an explosive file. Since mid-September 2021, the coronavouchers have to be refunded. However, there was no coronavoucherbank. However, that was perfectly predictable. Our group has therefore had a proposal on the table for over a year. However, the current government stalled, with the result that a large number of SMEs active in the travel sector themselves had to guarantee the reimbursement of the coronavouchers. Perhaps with the motto 'better late than never' there was light at the end of the tunnel. Until yesterday, November 16, 2021, the organisers had the opportunity to submit an application for a loan. My surprise was therefore when I found that the day after the deadline for submitting the application the legislation on this matter had not yet been published in the Belgian Official Journal. In other words, there was no legal basis. That's very special. So I asked a question about that. The answer was that the government would fix this and that the dates would be changed. Is that really the way the current government treats Parliament? Is that how the current government treats its citizens, in this case the many SMEs in the travel sector? I therefore have two specific questions for you. First of all, when will the coronavoucherbank really be operational? Secondly, will you take responsibility for the many SMEs in the travel sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u51	Madam President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, the introduction of coronavoucher loans for tour operators is indeed not going well, we must admit that. As has been pointed out in Parliament, this federal state aid can only be put into effect with the approval of the European Commission. That agreement was only given on Tuesday this week. We are now doing our utmost to publish the law as soon as possible. This means that the original timing is no longer feasible. The deadlines in the law need to be changed, for example the time limits within which tour operators have to submit their files to the FPS Economy. Furthermore, it appeared that tour operators encountered difficulties with the obligation to have a third party account. This is a requirement to ensure that the loans are used only for the reimbursement of the coronavouchers. Febelfin and Secretary of State De Bleeker had contact and a solution is in sight. But for this too, certain elements will have to be specified in the law. For all these reasons, the law as such is unworkable and will have to be amended as a matter of urgency. That's too bad, but it's no different. The longer the aid is delayed, the less he will help the tour operators, I am aware of that. The refund of vouchers starts now. We have informed the tour operators of the state of play and we will certainly keep them further informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u52	Minister, if you say that the dossier is not going smoothly, I hope that this is an understatement, because I think it is a strange statement. You are now blaming the European Commission, which only approved it on Tuesday, but if the file had been submitted earlier, it would have been approved earlier. So if we are tweeting 'good news for the travel sector', then that is not only inappropriate but also unjustified. I feel a substitute shame about the way this government treats Parliament. This government has a crushing responsibility towards the many SMEs in the travel sector who, due to its numbers, end up in even worse financial waters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u53	Madam President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, as we were discussing your general policy note, Azerbaijan was attacking Armenia on 16 November last afternoon. This is not a question of disputed territories, but of Armenian territory. It is an attack that apparently killed a dozen of Armenian soldiers defending their territory and as many captives. These are prisoners who are in addition to the prisoners who have still not been returned by Azerbaijan since the ceasefire of November 2020. Azerbaijan again uses force, violence, war in contradiction with international law and the agreements it has signed. Madam Vice-First, I think we should not let that happen. We must avoid a new bloodbath in this area. There were more than 7,000 deaths last November. We must ensure that we do not come here with policies of fait accompli to try to redraw borders, including borders that are internationally recognized. It is well known that Azerbaijan, with the support of Turkey, is seeking to redraw the map there and in particular to have territorial continuity between Azerbaijan and Nakhichevan. We must not let that happen. He must be condemned firmly. Action must be taken to return to political solutions. Here we must be able to clearly denounce this totally unspeakable and unbearable aggression in this region. It is obviously about our values, our principles, but also about our own security.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u54	Madam President, clashes actually took place between Armenian and Azerbaijani forces along the border on 15 and 16 November. The parties shall reject each other's responsibility. These clashes were the most important since the ceasefire agreement of 9 November 2020. Since last May, a number of violent clashes have taken place. It is difficult for the international community to have a clear view of the situation. On the basis of information provided by the authorities on both sides, several victims are to be deplored. The Co-Chairs of the Minsk Group immediately called for de-escalation, respect for the 9 November agreement and a return to the negotiating table. Following contacts between the Russian Minister of Defence, Mr. Choigou, and his Armenian and Azerbaijani counterparts, an agreement was reached between the two sides to end the hostilities on 16 November at 6.30 p.m. local time. The Russian President also had telephone contact with the Armenian Prime Minister and the Azerbaijani President on this subject. Our country condemns these clashes and calls on the parties to de-escalate. As I said in committee this Tuesday, it is necessary to return to the table and work for lasting peace. It is also essential to address the various outstanding issues, including the delimitation of the border between Armenia and Azerbaijan, dating back to the Soviet era. The European Union also has a role to play. The President of the European Council, Charles Michel, spoke by telephone with both the Armenian Prime Minister and the Azeri President to call for de-escalation and mediation. You know that the Eastern Partnership Summit will take place on 15 December in Brussels and I hope that this will be an opportunity to promote direct dialogue between the two countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u55	Deputy Prime Minister, I deeply regret the language you have just used. You talked about confrontations, sending back the back-to-back parts. You were warmly applauded, particularly by the MR Group. We must not allow ourselves to be abused by the propaganda of dictator Aliyev. By sending back the victim and the executioner back to back, we lose all credibility, as we encourage the strength and dictators of this region. That is not what we should do or what the Armenians and all the Democrats in the world expect of the European Union. Your French counterpart and President Macron were more courageous in designating who today was the aggressor, because this is an attack, not just confrontations. I hope that, in the coming days and weeks, we will take this situation into account and that we will be at the side of those who are trying to preserve democracy and our values (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u56	Madam President, the Secretary of State, this Tuesday, various media revealed that a flaw in the Bruvax platform made it possible to know the vaccination status of any Brussels or Brussels. By simply simulating an appointment on the site and introducing some simple identity data, it would be possible to know whether a person is vaccinated or not. Associations and several authorities have already denounced this flaw, which constitutes a violation of personal data. The Head of Immunization at the Joint Community Commission (COCOM) also stated that investigations were under way. The Brussels Minister of Health said he was available to answer the various questions. He recalled the importance of respect for privacy. But as we speak, the Brussels Parliament's Health Committee has not yet met. There are several platforms in Belgium. But the Brussels platform seems to be a problem. Mr Secretary of State, can we reassure ourselves about all applications regarding privacy and data security in Belgium? What do you think about this protection? How can we improve the security of Belgian digital data, especially when it comes to data as sensitive as health data? Do you not think that the Bruvax platform should be closed, which seems to be a problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u57	Madam Member, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let us be clear, no one can ever guarantee that any software or platform, whatever it may be, in the public or private sphere, will be totally inviolable. That would be a lie. It may sound scary, but it's reality. It is also precisely for this reason that any processing of personal data must be managed with maximum rigour and maximum responsibility, already in order to avoid all foreseeable risks. It is the responsibility of each institution, whether public or private. I can hardly comment at this stage on the specific issue of BRUVAX since, as you know, it is a platform whose responsibility is regional as provided for in the cooperation agreement on vaccination. Nevertheless, from what I have read, the authentication process of this site seems to me to be very much below the security standards necessary in view of the sensitivity of the data to which it gives access. No one should afford to treat personal data lightly or even with so much amateurism. Nothing can justify, not even the digital divide, a weakening of the protection of the privacy of our citizens. As you know, I've been working for months to solidify the privacy of all Belgians. It must be noted that the task is at the height of the stakes: colossal. I presented my recommendations to the Justice Commission a few days ago in order to strengthen the data protection framework. It is based on three key areas: transparency, data governance and stakeholder accountability. As such, I will soon return to Parliament with the first legislative work aimed at generating greater coherence and rigour in this regard. With regard specifically to BRUVAX, pending a more precise and precautionary analysis, it would seem to me more than appropriate to disable the platform, but it is a decision that today belongs to the Brussels authorities. For my part, I intend to seek ODA on the incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u58	Mr. Secretary of State, thank you for your answers and clarifications. Respect for privacy is really a fundamental element of our democracy. The Brussels Minister of Health and his administration must take full account of the seriousness of this situation, as you have said, and answer all the legitimate questions citizens are entitled to ask about their medical data. As you said, the Joint Community Commission (Cocom), responsible for Bruvax, must really shed light on these incidents and - I agree with you on this point - suspend the platform.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u59	I note that the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration is not there yet, but he should arrive in a few minutes. I am therefore obliged to suspend our plenary for a few moments, pending its arrival. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u60	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we resume our work by telling Mr Mahdi that the oral questions are raised every Thursday, at the beginning of the afternoon from 2.15 p.m. Ministers must, of course, be prepared to respond and, above all, to avoid interruptions in our work, which are a waste of time, not only for members of our assembly, but also for all those who follow and listen to us by video, colleagues and the services of the House. I would therefore ask you to be much more attentive in the future to the observance of the timetable. Having said that, Minister of State, I thank you for answering the following questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u61	Mr Secretary of State, all my respect for the fact that you are here, but my question was actually addressed to Mr De Croo. We consider this to be a social problem. Like many others, I was in the beautiful, miserable long traffic jams this morning following the actions of the police unions. Also now the Kleine Ring is being dropped off, so there are still many people in traffic. That, of course, causes enormous frustration among the population. You're right! But what we must not forget in this debate is that these actions are the inevitable consequence of our Minister for the Interior's lax policy, Mrs Verlinden. Why? Because the negotiations have already ended with a sisser. She has repeatedly expressed her wish to engage in a constructive debate, but her actions contradict that. In recent months, we have seen that the representatives who send them to the negotiating table either have no clear mandate or are not authorised to continue the negotiations, with all the consequences. It now appears that no date has yet been agreed for a new consultation. Then I wonder: are these negotiations really that important to her? And wider: are they really important to the entire government? In the policy statement you state: "Security is an absolute priority and that starts with respect for our policemen, for the men and women who stand for our safety on the streets." The way this government deals with police policy is not evidence of that. Nor do we find the budget: there is no sign of a wage increase, no sign of a specific NAVAP scheme, no sign of additional budgets for men. How do we get out of this impasse? What will you do? We know that confidence is a long way to go. Deeds aren't working, communications aren't working. A simple phone call could have prevented this. The police see these actions as her last straw. I have one simple question: what is this government going to do to (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, I am pleased that you are replacing your fellow Minister Verlinden and will give us an answer. Our party has been pleading for more blue on the street for years. Today, too, there is a lot of blue in the street, but because the joint police unions are working together. There are two reasons for this: firstly, the falling-off of wage negotiations, and secondly, the absence of a definitive arrangement for NAVAP and a career arrangement, two old dossiers which we regularly discuss with Minister Verlinden in committee. Punctuality actions, the closure of intersections and roads, demonstrations and disturbances are subject to the citizens' suffering. The citizens are in traffic for up to one and a half hours, are late at work or are missing their flight at the airport. That citizen has the right to a performant and motivated police force, which is responsible for the security of our society. We know what has stalled the negotiations: there is no money to meet the demand. It is therefore a pity to note that the Minister had to negotiate without any certainty about available budgetary space. We believe it is crucial that the negotiations continue as soon as possible. We are getting loud signals that the Minister has not yet contacted the syndicates to see how we can get out of the impasse. Can you confirm, Mr Secretary of State, that the negotiations are currently at a standstill and that no initiative has been taken with a view to restarting? If so, will the Home Secretary contact the syndicates to sit around the table again? Are the local authorities also involved in the talks, given that they provide a large part of the finance, namely the salaries of many policemen in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u63	Secretary of State, anger is present in everyone. The mobilization will continue crescendo. "If they want to go to the clash, it's good, we're hot and we're going to get up." "The Prime Minister said he was ready to discuss, but for that, there would have to be someone in front of us at the negotiating table." These are some of the messages we received from the police and their angry union representatives. Today, they were to negotiate the continuation of the strike notice in 185 police areas, but no one is here to talk to them. No mayor is present, and neither is the Minister of the Interior. I can understand that she has international obligations. This can be understood, but we can always assess whether this is the right time to meet these obligations when we are experiencing a crisis like the one we are experiencing today. Why didn't you plan someone to replace her in the negotiations? The cops feel like they're being mocked. Among their demands, they ask for a salary increase, after twenty years of waiting without having received anything. Minister Verlinden promised them a few crumbs: between 30 and 50 euros maximum. But after closing the federal budget, even those crumbs are not possible. Your government is also planning to attack the NAPAP regime, which allows police officers to leave the pension early because they do a difficult job. And today, the dialogue is broken. Actions take place across the country. New strikes are in sight. Rather than reopening the door to negotiations, you choose to deny the right to strike and requisition staff. Tomorrow there will be new strikes of zeal that will provoke lines (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u64	Mr Boukili, your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u65	Madam President, please excuse me for being late. The actions of the police are not simply organized around the Brussels ring. I can confirm that. I answer these questions because the ministers of Verdeinden and Van Quickenborne have been excused. The police unions choose to exert pressure with public actions on the ongoing negotiations on the sectoral agreement. Minister Verlinden opts for a constructive approach, namely through dialogue. I support her in that. This morning she described herself as an ally to all those who are committed to improving the status of policemen and women. In other words, it remains willing to seek solutions and to continue negotiations in a constructive manner. During this year, Minister Verlinden held regular consultations with representatives of the various police unions. For the time being, no agreement has yet been reached. Last May, she submitted a serious proposal to them, which the unions rejected. I would also like to point out that Minister Verlinden within the integrated police is only the employer of the policemen employed by the federal police. The local authorities are for the members of the local police. Consequently, they are responsible for three quarters of our police workers' wage costs. They are therefore an important partner in the search for a solution. In fact, next week, Minister Verlinden will be sitting with the representatives of the local authorities. A new date could also be sought for the Minister to continue negotiations on the sectoral agreement with the trade unions. In fact, she had an extensive discussion yesterday with the spokesperson of the common trade union front. In conclusion, we call on the trade unions. The best thing to do at the negotiating table is to fire smoke bombs and cause traffic jams, which will not help anyone, especially the citizens who are the victims of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u66	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. I wish the government good luck with its good intentions and intentions. But today's answer is a crook's answer. Apologies for the expression, but it's an empty box with a nice, large bow around it, with no content. We know that the Minister and the trade unions are opposed to each other, with drawn swords. There is no confidence in the Minister today. The unions call her "imperméable." Those are incredibly harsh words when you have to sit at a negotiating table together. How can you come to an agreement like that? We know that the actions will continue until January 2022, end of January 2022. Do you as a government want to be responsible for this? I certainly don't. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u67	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. Colleagues, there's something I must say. Our policemen are responsible day and night for the safety of every resident in our country. They do so in difficult circumstances, especially during the last year and a half of this pandemic in which they had to take on more tasks. All due respect to them. During wage negotiations one must be clear and straightforward, from both sides. We need to sit at the table with all the actors who will finance a possible wage premium. That's the federal government, but that's definitely the local government. I am glad to hear that the Minister will be sitting at the table with the local authorities next week, but I would like to warn you that the mayors and local authorities will not only pay that bill. Our budgets are already tight. Our police and our police don't deserve this situation. Our inhabitants, who are the victims of the trade union actions every day, do not deserve that either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u68	Madam President, the Secretary of State, your response, like that of the Minister, is not up to the situation. There are clear demands from unions and police officers, but you do not answer them. There is no point in getting around negotiating tables without concrete proposals. That is what has happened since the beginning of this crisis. As a result, the police no longer trust Mrs. Verlinden. They want the Prime Minister to take over this issue. More than 1,000 police officers landed on Rue de la Loi to show their dissatisfaction. They asked to see the Prime Minister who told them to make an appointment. This is all the contempt for the workers today! Vivaldi's policy is not limited to the situation of the police. It is all workers who suffer from this anti-social policy that blocks wages and prevents an improvement in working and living conditions. It is widespread to all workers and we will support all struggles (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u69	This concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u70	Voters 89 Stemmen White or invalid 1 Blank or invalid Valid 88 Geldig Absolute majority 45 Perfect majority M. Pieter Houbey a obtenu 68 voix. Mr Pieter Houbey received 68 votes. M. Bart De Temmerman a obtenu 20 voix. Mr Bart De Temmerman received 20 votes. Mr. Pieter Houbey, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared Vice-President of the Bureau of the Central Prison Supervision Board. Mr Pieter Houbey, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed Vice-President of the Office of the Central Supervisory Board for Prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u71	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 November 2021, I propose that you proceed with the appointment of the alternate members of the Board of Directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights during the plenary session on Thursday, 2 December 2021. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 November 2021, I propose that the alternate members of the Governing Council of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights be appointed at the plenary session of Thursday 2 December 2021. The actual members were appointed during the plenary sessions of 25 June 2020, 16 July 2020 and 23 September 2021. The effective members were appointed at the plenary sessions of 25 June 2020, 16 July 2020 and 23 September 2021. All candidates were heard in the Justice Committee on 7, 8 and 21 January 2020 and 30 June 2020. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh reported on the hearing of the candidates for alternate members in the Conference of Presidents on 17 November 2021. All candidates were heard in the Committee for Justice of 7, 8 and 21 January 2020 and 30 June 2020. Ms Kristien Van Vaerenbergh reported on the hearing of candidates for the alternate member's mandates at the Conference of Presidents of 17 November 2021. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Members may vote from Monday 22 November 2021 until Thursday 2 December 2021 at 4 p.m. Their ballot papers and parliamentary document No. 2329/1 are available to them in the General Secretariat. - Members may vote from Monday 22 November 2021 until Thursday 2 December 2021 at 4 p.m. Their ballot and the parliamentary document No. 2329/1 are at the disposal of the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only members can receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on the spot and deposited in the ballot box. I would remind you that only Members can receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. - The ballot paper will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday, 2 December 2021 in Room 3. - The urn with the ballots will be opened at the plenary session of Thursday 2 December 2021 in Room 3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 November 2021, a model list will be included in the ballot paper. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 November 2021, a model list will be included in the ballot. The ballot paper therefore has two parts: The ballot thus includes two shutters: - on the one hand the names of the twelve effective members, for each of them an alternate member must be appointed. Next to each effective member is a free space to fill in the name of a candidate among the candidates included in the parliamentary document; - on the one hand, the names of the twelve effective members, for each of them an alternate member must be appointed. In addition to each effective member, there is a free space to be filled with the name of one candidate among the proposed candidates in the parliamentary document; - on the other hand, a model list above which there is a voting box. - on the other hand, a model list above which there is one voting box. Members who agree with the template list are invited to draw a cross in the voting box above the template list. Members who agree with the model list are requested to place a cross in the voting box above the model list. On the other hand, those who do not wish to approve this model list may write a name for each effective member. This allows each member to vote freely for the candidates of his or her choice. Those who, on the other hand, do not wish to approve this model list may write one name per effective member. Each member is thus free to vote for the candidates of his choice. Ballot papers are invalid if they are voted in both ways. The ballots shall be invalid if both votes are cast. Ballot papers on which there are more votes than mandates to be filled are invalid. Vote notes with more votes than mandates have been issued shall be invalid. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u72	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u73	Madam President, I would like to ask the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 2327/1. The government agreement states that at the end of this month this government would decide on the final core exit. In the meantime, we hear, even from government circles, that this can no longer be done. This means that the coalition agreement is apparently a fraudulent document, something the N-VA warned about at the start of this government. It has set a date for decision, whereas it is now said within the government itself that no decision can be taken. This leads to enormous tensions within the government, because, in addition, only the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is genuinely convinced of the need to close down nuclear power stations, while everyone else has a realistic vision, but they are obliged, within the coherence of the government, to give Ecolo-Green something'something', for which the population will have to pay very heavily. The last few weeks have been said, inter alia by colleagues from MR, but also with the support of colleagues from Open Vld, that a possibility should be provided for to get back into nuclear projects in the future. We want to take action, and that is why Mr Wollants cs' proposal to enable new and innovative forms of nuclear power generation, through an amendment to the law that determines the gradual exit from nuclear power. This offers this country the opportunity to return to innovative and climate-friendly energy supply. I do not think we should drag too long into that. That is why I am asking for urgency so that we can get to work right away. I am therefore convinced that several groups will support this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u74	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u75	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u76	Yes 123 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 123 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u77	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u78	Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u79	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u80	Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u81	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u82	Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Amendment and article reserved of the proposal for a law amending Article 98 of the Organic Law of 8 July 1976 on public social action centres (681/5+6) Sustained amendment and article of the bill amending Article 98 of the Organic Law of 8 July 1976 on Public Welfare Centres (681/5+6) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Nadia Moscufo cs to Article 2.(681/6) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Nadia Moscufo cs on Article 2.(681/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u83	Yes 32 Yes No. 95 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u84	The proposal for a law amending Article 98 of the Organic Law of 8 July 1976 on public centres for social action (681/5) Whole of the bill amending Article 98 of the Organic Law of 8 July 1976 on Public Welfare Centres (681/5) Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u85	Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u86	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u87	Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u88	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u89	Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u90	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Christoph D'Haese to insert an article 2/1 (n). (2228/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Christoph D'Haese to insert an Article 2/1 (n). (2228/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u91	Yes [[38]] Yes No. 96 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u92	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u93	Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u94	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u95	Yes 100 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u96	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u97	Yes 108 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 26 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u98	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u99	Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u100	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u101	Yes 90 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 44 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u102	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u103	Yes 92 Yes No. [[42]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1474/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1474/1 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-18-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip141x.u104	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, November 25, 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 25 November 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
