ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u1	Minister, it was reported last July that smartphones belonging to politicians, lawyers, journalists and human rights activists from around the world had been hacked using the Israeli software Pegasus. NSO Group, the company behind this software, has some 40 governments among its customers. Among the people targeted by this spy software are our former Prime Minister, Charles Michel. As a reminder, this software allows you to read all messages, even encrypted, or secretly activate the camera or microphone of the spyed device. An R Committee investigation is underway to determine whether this software is being used by our services. I would like to respond to your statement that Belgian intelligence services can legally use this spy software in their missions. In this statement, however, you did not address the question of whether our services actually use it, simply stating that the Security and companies like NSO "have the same specialized trade fairs for intelligence services". Mr Minister, I would therefore like to have some clarifications on your part. Can you confirm whether the Pegasus software is used by the Belgian intelligence services? You indicate that the legal basis exists for the use of such a tool. Can you detail this point? Can you tell us in what context this use is allowed? NGOs called for an immediate moratorium on the export, sale, transfer and use of surveillance technologies until a human rights-based regulatory framework is in place. What is your response to this request? What steps are you going to take to put such a framework in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u2	Mr Minister, the introduction has been outlined, and I shall now turn to my very specific questions. What is your reaction to this news, to these revelations? Since when have you been aware of this? Is there any more information about the impact on Belgian citizens? Is there any insight into which Belgian politicians, journalists and activists are involved? After all, those were the targets. Are there also politicians and can their names be communicated? Have these persons been informed individually? Is there already an insight into the manner and time span of the espionage and the information that may be obtained? If so, can you explain this? What measures have already been taken in response to this news? Was the State Safety and ADIV already informed before 20 July 2021? If so, since when? If not, what did they do after the announcement on 20 July? How will we work with Amnesty International Security Lab? Has the parquet already started an investigation? It was already announced by the participating media on 20 July 2021 that more revelations would follow. In what way will this be followed up by the Justice Department? Are companies that have similar hacking software followed by our government? How will the safety of citizens be guaranteed against such infringements? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u3	Madam President, I refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u4	Mevrouw de voorzitster, collega's, thank you for the interesting and obviously important questions. I shall first answer Mr Van Hecke's questions, Mr Boukili's first two questions and Mrs Van Hoof's first question. I have therefore been informed of this information through the press. I was not aware of the information about Forbidden Stories' investigation and Amnesty International's investigation before the case was published in the press. Our police and intelligence services use various commercial solutions in criminal investigations and special intelligence methods to enable them to respond to requests from the competent authorities and to gain access to private information. However, in order to ensure the effectiveness and sustainability of these capacities used in the legal knowledge of private communications, no detail, Mr Boukili, on the tools and methods used can be publicly communicated. After all, we must ensure that too much openness in this area does not lead to changes in the behaviour of criminals, terrorists or extremists, with the result that the threat may be increased. Therefore, the use of specific and exceptional methods in the intelligence and security services is always classified as "secret." In general, however, I can assure you that in our country such intrusive and privacy sensitive research methods are only used within the strict legal framework of the Special Investigation Methods (BOM) for the judicial services and the Special Intelligence Methods (BIM) for the intelligence services. This strict legal framework lays down three elements. Firstly, the facts for which such methods can be used are criminal or terrorist offences or facts that threaten the security of our country. This therefore does not apply to every criminal offence. Secondly, as regards the conditions for using these methods, a magistrate's consent is always required: a judge of inquiry for the BOM and the three magistrates of the BIM Committee for the BIM. Thirdly, a retrospective check is also provided for: for the BOM by the AI, and for the BIM by the Standing Committee I. That's how it's supposed to be in a democratic state. Intrusive methods are the exception and are used according to that strict legal framework. That's the difference with a police state. I would like to stress that here. According to press revelations, certain regimes use these methods to illegally eavesdrop people, including high-ranking individuals, and even in a systematic way, i.e. dragnetically. That is unacceptable. I will come back to that later. I have explained to you the difference with our country, and that must be clear. Our services have been in contact with many product providers in the search for new techniques and technologies in order to meet our legal tasks as best as possible. Companies such as NSO are more frequent with the same specialised exchanges for intelligence and security services where the State and the police are also present. With regard to questions 2a and 2b by Mr Van Hecke and questions 3 and 5 by Mr Van Hoof, I can say that the State's security has not yet recorded its own findings on the use of espionage software against Belgian politicians, journalists or activists. However, the threat of espionage is real and current, including through technical means such as cyberattacks, spyware and malware. Therefore, it is not unlikely that these resources will also be used by foreign powers against politicians, journalists and activists. Its detection is particularly complex in the technical field. However, the use of such software by foreign powers against Belgian people is unacceptable. For me, it is once again an illustration of the importance of investing heavily in strengthening our intelligence services, apart from the criminal law aspect that I will come back to later. Neither Charles nor Louis Michel's phones were investigated by our intelligence services. Then I come to questions 3, 5 and 6 by Mr Van Hecke and Question 7 by Mr Van Hoof. Following Amnesty International's report and press release, the federal prosecutor ordered the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU) to launch an investigation into the facts of external hacking, in particular the alleged intrusions into Belgian mobile devices using software from the company NSO Group. This criminal investigation is in the early stages. No further information can be provided on this in the interest of the investigation. The Standing Committee I also announced that it would organise an investigation into the possible use of the Pegasus tool by the intelligence services. The reporting to the guidance committee for the P Committee and the I Committee is expected in autumn 2021. Again: that is the way it should be, because I welcome these kinds of investigations effectively. Then I come to Question 4 by Mrs Van Hoof. The Security of the State first and foremost seeks to maximise the threat of espionage by foreign powers through our investigations and exchange of information with our domestic and foreign partner services. In addition, we are also trying to reduce the threat, firstly by increasing resilience through awareness-raising campaigns and targeted advice. Secondly, if necessary, we will also interfere with the harmful activities. This is often done in consultation with other competent authorities and guardians and can take all kinds of forms, from refusing advice to a more policy-based approach. For years, State Security and ADIV have been cooperating in the field of espionage, both at strategic and operational and technical level, exchanging knowledge and making arrangements for the division of tasks or for cooperation on certain issues or issues. Then I come to questions 4a and 4b by Mr Van Hecke and Question 2 by Mr Van Hoof. The security of the State was not aware of this file before it was published in the press. The State Security was, of course, aware of the existence of the technology to remotely infect smartphones using special software. In the complex and highly evolutionary world of technology, people have begun to communicate in different ways. Mail and phone still exist, but email and messaging apps take up an increasing part of this domain. This raises a problem for the government when the situation of judicial or intelligence investigations so requires. Because some providers of electronic communications on our territory do not allow the interception of such communications by the Belgian government, the services seek other ways to obtain the information. Private organisations offer products that our government does not want or can develop. The security of the State therefore takes into account that these funds can also be used against Belgian interests. For example, the phenomenon of technical espionage was included in the awareness sessions. For the future, it will be assessed which additional protection measures are possible and feasible. This issue will also receive even more attention in preventive actions such as awareness-raising. I can answer Mr Van Hecke's question 7 as follows. I will, of course, continue to monitor closely all developments and communications on this subject and will take the necessary measures in function of the information provided to me by my services. Question 8 by Mr Van Hecke, when we take note of the fact that citizens would become victims of crime, the general application of criminal law and criminal procedure applies. On Mr Boukili's question about NGOs, I do not want to reject as a whole. In the fight against serious and organised crime, as well as against terrorism, telephone and Internet traffic data are essential for our security services. I can give you many examples, particularly in the case of abduction of a child or preparation of an attack by individuals. Take the Sky ECC file we all know. I repeat once again that the use of intrusive methods in our country can only be done within a strict legal framework with respect for the rights and freedoms of our citizens. That is also what I am advocating on the international stage. In a world where technology and digital communication are becoming increasingly complex and ubiquitous, it is not illogical for intelligence and security services to seek means of obtaining valuable information. Where larger powers have the means to develop their own capacity in this area, others prefer to buy it from private companies. Where necessary, such tools are also developed ad hoc in the context of a particular dossier. Given the complexity of detecting this type of software and the importance these services attach to shielding their operational resources, it is not possible to draw up an overview of this for the sake of state security.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u5	In the first answer, you are a little vague, and I understand that. You also explained why. Between the lines, we can understand what you mean. We assume that the provisions of the BIM and BOM laws will be correctly applied and that all procedures will proceed correctly, whatever technology is used and by any company that is supplied. We also assume that the Committee I exercises sufficient control over this. If the public authorities themselves resort to such technologies, care must be taken to see who is involved. Joining the Israeli company NSO Group speaks for itself. Often these are companies where Mossad employees work. Then we also know where the information collected here ends up. The same applies to American technology. We once had the discussion about the BIM law when the State Security was allowed to eavesdrop. The wiretap came from a Tel Aviv company, from the same street where Mossad is located. That's obvious. If we consider that this technology is necessary, it should be developed in Europe itself, independently of other powers. It's hard enough to keep things secret as it is. It's a challenge we face. That's an important lesson we're learning. I'm mostly worried, too. I didn't know that technology existed and that it could go this far. It reminds me of James Bond, where anyone can see and follow anything from a distance. If such technology comes into the hands of questionable regimes and groups, it is very serious. It's not easy to handle. I am concerned as a citizen and as a politician that in Belgium, too, technology is being used against politicians, NGOs and journalists, people who have a critical voice, people who live here and get protection and have problems in their country of origin, but are still being followed in that way. That's very serious. Hopefully, the government and the various ministers responsible for this matter will take this very seriously, take its responsibility and try to stop and combat it as much as possible. That won't be easy, but I wish you and your government every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand that the first one remains rather evasive. You made an important point. However, in fact, it appears that this software has been used for intrusions into privacy and political activities. Heads of State were thus spied on, as were political opponents and activists. One can very well claim to ensure compliance with the laws, but that is not the case, in fact. Thus, Belgium is facing a huge problem in terms of privacy protection. For this reason, the European Commission has tapped our fingers. This kind of foreign software shows us that the objectives are different from the objectives of the fight against crime. We must therefore be very careful in this regard. Even if your answer is motivated by reasons of state security, it does not reassure us about the use of these software. So I'd like to get a little more guarantees. This is not the case today. Hence the NGO proposal to apply a moratorium to such tools. This reflection must be carried out. In fact, we are faced with an intrusive phenomenon. I am not talking about the population in general, but more specifically about our political leaders. We've seen him in France and elsewhere. It's something very serious. State security issues should not obscure all other problems that should also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. There is a strong evolution, including in the field of technology. If we talk about who, where and when, then we really do see to it that certain things are removed, which means that we do not know who to address or prosecute in that area. I understand that you cannot break the secret of the investigation in that context. That doesn't change the fact that you called it intrusive. To that I can add that it is nasty and also intimidating. We have also noticed this from the report that Peter Verlinden has put in the press about the fact that he too was tapped through Pegasus. I myself was also contacted by Mr Rusesabagina's daughter, who happened the same way. Apparently, our conversations were also bugged. Then the terms "awsome" and "intimidating" come to mind. A burglary in a house in a similar way gives a nasty feeling for about two weeks. However, the eavesdropping goes much further, because everything we do is followed in this way, in any place. That is unacceptable. I think we need to become more aware of that. I am convinced that several regimes apply these practices. I'm working on the State Department myself. Such practices are a way of intimidating politicians, journalists and human rights defenders. Once one knows who the contacts are, the sources can be threatened and extorted. In this way we can no longer do our job in a good way, so that must not happen at all, especially in politics. It is an intimidating way of working which also involves private life. As a result, actions are being taken in this way. We really have to stop that. I therefore call for you to look at how a framework can be created around it at European level. Who gets to buy what, how can that be used? How can we approach dictatorial regimes in that regard? I think we are still in the infancy of that. In cyber security, as I see from my international contacts, Eastern European countries have become particularly skilled. They also invest a huge amount of resources in this area, partly because these countries are bordering Russia. I think that we have come to a level that we must realise in Belgium too. I refer to the hearing on the Uighurs a few months ago. Suddenly, certain systems were completely out of order. That wasn't a coincidence. You put the word sensitizing in your mouth. What can or cannot be done online? What may or may not be opened? What are the dangers? In what way is the case taken over? What should be done if such practices are identified? I think we can use some sensitising actions around that and that this should be part of our training, not only of human rights defenders and journalists, but also of politicians. I can only encourage you to investigate this further and to work towards a framework at European level and to act sensitizingly. I can testify it's a very unpleasant feeling.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u8	Is there anything else I can add to that? The suggestion of colleagues to develop this kind of software in their own administration is interesting. This will not work in Belgium, but perhaps in a European context. When we talk about essential services and products, it is better to talk about them with us. Secondly, we are going to strengthen state security services in terms of staff. You know that, colleague Van Hoof. The technical espionage is something that is indeed more intrusive and ever closer. It is a threat to the functioning of our democracy, to politicians, to journalists. We need to fight that better. I have also asked the State Security Services to be more vigilant so that our democracy can continue to function. Thirdly, with regard to your suggestion that something should be done at European level, I will refer this to the fellow Justice Ministers. After the discussions on e-evidence and others we have, this is also a trend that we should be concerned about. Thank you for the suggestions, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u9	In the newspaper De Tijd of 11 August 2021 some examples of cases where the lead time is scandalously long were mentioned. For example, it concerns a case where an appeal is filed in 2018, but the judgment is not expected until 2023. This jeopardises the right of access to justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u10	Madam President, the measurement of workload within the magistrate has long been announced and is a long-term work. The coalition agreement faithfully, I will do everything I can with the lectures to achieve this, but in the meantime we will not sit still and continue to work on digitisation. Within the Public Prosecutor's Office there are currently workload measurements at the parquets, in particular at the correctional youth and police sections, and at the labour auditorates/civil section. As of 2022 additional measurements are planned for the parquet and auditorium general, the federal parquet, the civil sections of the parquet and the criminal sections of the labor auditorates. In carrying out the workload measurement, priority shall be given to the core processes and key actions which are the main workload for the judiciary and judicial staff. The workload measurement is strategically controlled by the College of the Public Prosecutor's Office and is supported by the study department of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the FPS Justice and a private partner. For the operational part, several thematic working groups are active on a national scale with the representation of the Regions, Communities and arrondissements. They act as a platform for cooperation, communication, consultation and follow-up at the different stages of the workload measurement. The working groups come together on Mondays and participate intensively and constructively in the task. The entire programme is monitored and coordinated by an overarching steering group. The first results of the measurements are expected in the course of this year and by 2023 the entire prosecutor's office should be covered. So we know effectively the results of these workload measurements. The College of Courts and Courts is currently working on the further refinement and improvement of a project allocation model and simulations have been carried out for all types of courts in the past on the basis of available statistics. Over the past few months, the College has conducted two studies: the completion of the workload measurement based on the methodology from the period 2008-2017 and a survey of the current division of labour of magistrates and staff by legal domain within each type. Through the combination of both studies, the College of the seat aims to distil major trends, but also to detect gaps in the model. The analysis is in full swing and the conclusions will be explained to all chiefs of the courts and courts at the beginning of October. Based on the experience of the current model, the College is preparing a new process of workload measurement. In this new process, the so-called Piste 2, the College wants to measure effective working hours, including possible overtime and actual file times. The College is preparing this phase, which can start in 2022, with the intention of having the first results by 2023. I come to your second question. The College of the Public Prosecutor attaches great importance to analysing and comparing the way of working between entities and making the work processes and the functioning of the Public Prosecutor's Office in general more efficient and uniform. It has therefore set up, also in connection with the workload measurement, an internal bpm operation that aims to introduce a professionally integrated business process management within the organisation. Since then, the workload measurements have been preceded and accompanied by bpm projects that combine measurement, management and improvement. The introduction of a new tool for bpm is also aimed at monitoring the work processes on various indicators, including workload and lead time. With regard to your third question, workload measurement, as developed and conceived by the Public Prosecutor's Office, allows the determination and analysis of the workload of magistrates at a detailed level. The reporting of the workload is done at aggregated level, with the possibility to zoom in on the various topics, work processes, judicial areas, districts and departments. In general, we see that the place where a magistrate works is less decisive for his or her workload than the matter he or she receives to deal with. New results should shed light on the work load factors. The work load measurement model of the seat is based on the average time needed to handle a particular matter. There are differences in treatment times according to the type of matter. However, unit time per product is a national average unit time applicable to all districts and departments. The College does not exclude that the allocation model may take into account certain objectively demonstrable aggravating circumstances which would allow a correction factor to be applied to certain courts. With regard to your fourth question, it is, of course, within a corps the chief of police responsible for the allocation and distribution of the workload. Delegations can already be used between the different entities, whereby magistrates or judicial staff are temporarily appointed to work in another entity. However, we see a solution in the preliminary draft law which introduces flexible staffing arrangements whereby, on the basis of the workload measurements, certain entities can be strengthened to the detriment of entities which, according to objective findings, have a lower workload. I believe, Madam President, that I have answered all your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u11	Thank you for your answer. The question of workload measurement has been asked for a long time. Everything is starting to happen, and I do hope that it will eventually lead to a result. We're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u12	Last year, the Supreme Court of Justice received 231 new complaints about the functioning of the court, which, according to the same council, is probably just the tip of the iceberg.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u13	Mrs. Dillen, you're talking about a blunderbook. You may have taken this title from an article in De Tijd. Indeed, in the report on complaints handling 2020 by the Supreme Court of Justice, which is the basis of the newspaper article, we read that 231 complaints were submitted in 2020, 36 of which were justified. Do you know how many files the parquets deal with every year? Do you know how many judgments and judgments are handed down every year? The prosecutors deal with more than 500,000 files each year and the judges make more than 1 million judicial decisions every year. For all the hardworking, committed and specialized magistrates and their associates, it is a jaw blow that is wiped away all that decent work with a flashy word, which is the blunderbook, which does not cover the load. That is not your responsibility, but you have repeated the word. I'm very sorry about that. However, there are, in fact, well-founded complaints about the operation of justice in general and the delay in justice in particular. That backwardness is a thorn in my eye. Every citizen, every company, every right-holder should receive a timely answer to the question put to the Justice Department, because, as one says in English, justice delayed is justice denied. We are committed to this, but it is not realistic to think that a delay, which has been built up in some places for 20 or 30 years, can simply be eliminated with a draw. As far as your first question is concerned, the reality on the ground is very different when it comes to judicial delays. There are courts where there are no problems and there are others where the lead times are too long. At present we have figures of pending cases and we see that in some chambers of courts or courts of appeal it takes a very long time for a case to be brought. I note that there were different definitions and criteria of delay and that there was therefore no clear vision. The cooperation agreement we concluded with the College of Courts and Courts in exchange for the additional money they have received has therefore agreed that we will improve the statistics and take a zero measurement, starting on 1 January 2022, in order to monitor the extent of the backlog on the basis of a similar definition. As regards your question about the capacity utilisation rate at the Registry and to compare it for the last three years, I will send you the tables of occupation rates in writing. Then you will see the evolution of both judicial staff and magistrates. Are there any additional vacancies and how many of them have been filled? We invest in Justice and provide for 718 additional recruitments of magistrates, legal staff and people at the support service for 2021. The allocation of these funds was approved at the Ministerial Councils on 2 April and 21 May. The recruitments are in full swing. In particular, an additional budget was allocated to magistrates at the Brussels Appeals Court and the Brussels Labour Court to deal with the delay in justice in Brussels. For the judicial staff, additional budgets were provided for contractual vacancies of Registrars and Assistants to the same entities, namely four Registrars, four Assistants to the Brussels Appeals Court and a Registrar and an Assistant to the Brussels Labour Court. The selection procedures are currently under way. They asked if there were any problems filling in the vacancies. There is a shortage in the labour market, including in the Justice Department. Many companies, but also government institutions are crying out for staff, often specialized staff. In the federal judicial police, more than half of the more than 600 vacancies remain unanswered. So it will not be obvious to attract the desired profiles, but we anticipate them. The appeal of magistrates and clerks is an action point. That is why we work together with the lectures on the attractiveness of the magistrate and the court staff, we work on a social statute for the magistrates, we highlight the societal relevance of the jobs and we work on better workplaces and, of course, on the new digital work environment. A legislative initiative was taken for the judicial staff to anchor homework and provide compensation for this. Summer placements and student placements for law students and students are organised within the entities. Meanwhile, an employee branding campaign is also being prepared at the level of the FPS Justice. It is ready and will be launched very soon for the first time. The aim is to place job vacancies in the market with a clear message that stimulates people. It's a serious challenge. On the private market, especially in Flanders, many vacancies are also difficult to fill. However, it is not impossible. We have so quickly recruited additional lawyers and administrative staff in Antwerp and elsewhere in the country as part of the major criminal investigation Sky ECC. We have been able to find and recruit 61 people in no time. Working at the Justice Department can certainly be attractive. We are dealing with the legal backlog from different angles. We're working on digitization. We are working on alternative methods of handling, such as mediation. We promote the lick-on-piece policy and support the magistrates with referenda and parquet lawyers. As indicated in my answer to the first question, we have also provided funds for the delay specifically in the Brussels appeal court. With regard to the workload measurements, I can refer to my reply just now to Mrs Van Vaerenbergh. The results of the workload measurements will be used by the colleges to feed their allocation models and will serve as a basis for creating job vacancy plans. A double approach has been agreed in the cooperation protocol. In the short term, priority will be given to the courts which are already well known to be lagging behind, which is specifically the case of the courts and courts in Brussels. In addition, on the basis of the zero measurement, the College of the Courts and the Courts will be able to assess where there is a problem with the treatment periods and, where appropriate, the College will provide support to the management committee concerned in order to draw up an appropriate action plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u14	It is, of course, true, Mr Minister, that you cannot eliminate the complete delay by means of a drawing. That is self-evident, but we must also dare to recognise that it is a very old one. I was in the Chamber for the first time in the 1991-1995 legislature, which was unfortunately a long time ago, and it was already promised to make this a priority, because at that time it was already a major problem. Ten years later, the government of Guy Verhofstadt promised your party mate again to solve the problem as a matter of priority. We are now more than 30 years later and it would not be correct to say that nothing has happened, but the problem remains, especially in Brussels. I shall, of course, look at the figures you have mentioned. You're right to say that working for the Justice Department can be attractive. There is still a shortage on the labour market in general today, but I never understood that there were often so few interested people in the past, because in all honesty work for the Justice Department, especially as a magistrate, must be a dream job. One can also put his own accents in that and it is not a bad framework either, so I have always wondered that it is not obvious to find candidates for it. I therefore hope that there will be positive results with all the impulses you will give. I have therefore tabled a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u15	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Marijke Dillen and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - whereas the problem of the delay in justice has been a problem for many years and has already been announced by the then Prime Minister during the 1999-2003 administration that it would be finally resolved; - whereas since then, however, the problem has only escalated rather than been addressed and resolved; - whereas the content of your policy statement basically meant that you would solve all the problems facing the Justice Department in this legislature over the last 20 years, which referred all the more and separately to the (size of the) legal backlog; - having regard to the fact that the causes of the delay in justice are rooted in all kinds of factors such as lack of registry staff, lack of magistrates, lack of professional equipment, lack of digital progress,...; - whereas, since your policy statement to say euphemistically, very little has been achieved from your policy of announcements in general, and the problem of the delay in justice has hardly been addressed, in particular; asks the government to draw up immediately a well-thought-out and functioning overall plan addressing the causes of the legal backlog, so that this can lead to a definitive resolution of the legal backlog." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Marijke Dillen and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, - Considering that the problem of the backlog is a problem that has been dragging on for years and that already during the 1999-2003 legislature, the then Prime Minister had announced that it would be finally resolved; - Whereas, instead of having been addressed and resolved, the problem has only worsened since then; - Whereas the terms used in your statement of political orientation were essentially equivalent to saying that you would solve during this term all the problems faced by the Justice over the last twenty years, in which it is more rightly and separately refers to (the extent of) the judicial backlog; - Whereas the causes of the backlog of cases stem from a number of factors, including the shortage of registry staff, judges, lack of professional equipment, digital advances, etc.; - Considering that since the publication of your political orientation statement, you have generally achieved very few points in your advertising policy, and in particular have barely addressed the problem of the backlog and this is euphemism; asks the government to draw up without delay a comprehensive plan that is thoughtful and viable and addresses the causes of the backlog, so that it can lead to a definitive elimination of the backlog." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u16	Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Dillen for the suggestions. The legal delay has long existed, but in the court of appeal of Antwerp, for example, we see that the situation has really improved. Brussels is still a big problem. We also have the ongoing audit of the Supreme Court of Justice. Mrs. Dillen, you are a good ambassador to the justice system when you speak with such praise of the majesty. I won't say I'm suggesting you become magistrate, although we're still looking for some. After corona, I can finally meet physical magistrates. Last week, at the emeritate of an investigative judge in West Flanders, I met several of them. Today I met a West-Flemish family judge of the Dutch-speaking chamber that lives in Brussels. She talked passionately about mediation in family affairs. There's a lot of talent in our magistrates and they're well-educated people. We hope that with the campaigns and the extra investments we will now be able to convince more people to take the step, including from the legal profession, to the magistrate. That's a big challenge. We will not be able to change everything, but with the additional resources we provide, we will also be able to invest in good laptops, software and working environments for the magistrates. Hopefully there will be a digital file soon. That should lead to more people being attracted to the magistrate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u17	I hear you've also met magistrates in Antwerp this weekend. I have also heard of your sporting activities and the cross you participated in.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u18	Antwerp is one of my favorite arrondissements. (unintelligible)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u19	The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u20	On Wednesday, August 4, 2021, the 40-year-old Russian Muslim Aboubakarov escaped from the prison in Ghent. According to the media, the guy would have used a forklift to scramble over the prison wall.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u21	I will answer the three questions together, because they are related. Articles 81 to 85 of the Basic Law govern the employment of prisoners in prisons. Working is not a privilege in prisons, but a principle. The basic law states that prisoners have the right to participate in the work available in prison. This right is part of the development of meaningful detention, the strengthening of the inmate in the context of his reintegration and compensation of victims and the payment of debts, which I believe to be the most important. The Director shall be responsible for allocating the work to the inmate. This will take into account the technical competences of detainees, their work attitude and potential risks in the context of security and order. This may be about issues such as the risk of flight or the misuse of potentially dangerous materials. The evaluation shall be based on the individual record of the inmate. The decision to award employment to the prisoner may be amended at any time on the basis of the conduct, information from internal or external partners or on the basis of the course of detention. The prisoner who fled Ghent prison was not known as a flight risk and his behaviour in prison was described as correct. He worked in the prison's workhouses since 28 January 2019 and joined the prison's loose crew in July 2020, more than a year ago. There were no problems until he fled. If this had been the case, he would have been relieved of his duties on the basis of specific information. The incident was investigated and a risk analysis was carried out. This risk analysis is also extended to all other facilities where forklifts are in use. On the roof where the prisoner could flee, rollers of concertina wire are installed. The instruction to store the forklift for non-immediate use behind a locked gate was tightened. It was also examined whether there were firmer and safer key contacts for forklift trucks on the market and whether the scope of the fork of the forklift could be restricted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for explaining this dossier on the prison in Ghent and for the measures that have already been taken. You referred to Articles 81 to 85 of the Basic Law and you say that working is not a privilege. I do not agree with you on that. If there were sufficient work for all prisoners, it would indeed be a right. However, in the prisons of Antwerp, of which I know the situation, there is a great shortage of jobs. However, I do not pretend to be aware of the situation of prisons in other provinces. There is still a considerable shortage of jobs in the Antwerp prisons. It is necessary to ensure that they are granted selectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u23	Mrs Dillen, a new prison will be built in Antwerp, for which, as you know, the contract has now been awarded. There will be much more jobs there. It is true that in the arrest house in Ghent, where I visited, the space for work is relatively limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u24	Minister, I see that my interplay and my two questions have been lumped together. The reason for my interplay was the recent Pano-reportage. It didn't contain anything new, so I certainly wasn't shocked when I saw them. We are talking about two deaths, every month due to partner violence, especially violence against women. I had put the other questions before. I know, it's been summer recess, but I have to keep hitting the same nail all the time, because nothing happens. We see that Spain and France have taken initiatives, and now also the United Kingdom. When I interact if to investigate things, one simply ignores them completely. I am glad that the problem is now highlighted by this Pano reportage: about 40,000 reports of intra-family violence per year. About 150 of them have potentially fatal outcomes. I say "approximately," because what turns out to be? Actually, there are no correct figures. The website stopfeminicide.blogspot.be has actually collected those figures based on newspaper articles. That's a first pain point. We also heard in this report that the police come to the scene and sometimes hear two different stories. Trial records are not prepared for such a case. In the report it was stated that it is up to the police, when the statements of the perpetrator and the victim do not match, to establish that and yet to make a record of it. It is hallucinating how many victims of partner violence and ex-partner violence cannot be heard and remain in the cold. I get almost weekly e-mails and phone calls with the most horrible stories about situations where the courts just fail, where the police just fail. The Family Justice Centers I know: they are a Flemish jurisdiction.. have still not rolled out. If I'm looking for Flemish Brabant now, there's nothing to see. Others do good work effectively, but that does not happen in all provinces. In Flemish Brabant, for example, this is still problematic. We also see that in the United Kingdom there is a system that warns people when their new partner acted violently against an ex-partner. I'm asking you to check that out. Can this also be introduced in Belgium? The suicide rates must also be reviewed, because I am convinced that a whole series of suicides are due to the often underestimated problems of belagging, stalking and harassment by the partner, in short, partner violence. That's not being captured in the statistics for the time being. In Spain, the anti-approach band has been introduced, which goes a step further than the stalking alarm that recently entered into force in Ghent. However, I do not hear my argument on this point. There is even a new legislative initiative in Spain that prevents the parent of intra-family violence from seeing children. Another sting is pulled out and a deadly result is avoided, as children are no longer at risk and contact between the victim and the offender is restricted. Minister, you have stated in the press that who kills his or her partner must live, but when will you do something with that announcement? When can we expect the digital risk assessment tool? Furthermore, judges should follow the example of Antwerp and Limburg courts, which often impose a house ban. That doesn't even exist in the other provinces. I would also urge you to roll out the mobile stalking alarm throughout the country. Will you finally enter the anti-to approach tape, where an alarm goes off when the unsub comes close, without the victim having to push a button? I was also talking about the Family Justice Centers and the English system in which the new partner gets to know about the violent past of the others. In line with the interplay, I am asking for the general approach to domestic violence. France can serve as an example in this respect. There each police station receives a specialised agent, the anti-approach band was introduced and specialised courts were installed, combining the criminal and civil aspects of such cases. A family court gets a look at complaints about partner violence and the perpetrator's past. That does not happen here, which means that the court cannot deal with it, or that a court sees certain facts in the light of a divorce and nothing happens. When will the global plan against sexual violence take effect? I read from the answer to my question to Secretary of State Schlitz that she says that a security plan will be drawn up, looking at whether the partner has a safe accommodation or needs to go to a refuge. There too, there must be a total change in mentality. If such cases occur, the unsub must be able to stay in the house safely, and the victim with the children must be able to stay in the house safely. That mentality change is still not there. It's not the victim who has to run. On my last question on the question of the question of the victims, Mr Demir started doing so in September. I also had a number of questions about this. How do you work with that initiative? Do you have any intention of organizing a survey like this? I also have a question about the privacy of the victims. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u25	Thank you, colleague, for your questions. I'll answer them one by one. I apologise that it will take a while, but I think that the subject is too important to discuss briefly and lightly. The government is making the fight against intra-family violence a priority as announced in the coalition agreement and in my policy paper. The Council of Europe's Istanbul Convention, signed and ratified by Belgium in 2012, is the guiding principle for this. Since 2001, Belgium has implemented its policy on gender-based violence through an action plan together with the Communities. Sensitisation, training and prevention, the protection of victims, the reception of victims and the implementation of an effective criminal policy are the main objectives of that action plan. Specific guidelines for police and justice have been in place since 2006 for dealing with partner violence cases: the 2006 COL, which was revised in 2015. My fellow Member, Mr Schlitz, concludes at that point in time: it is a matter of weeks, the new national action plan until 2025. As has been said, the action plan will be aligned with the Istanbul Convention and the Grevio recommendations. GREVIO is the independent expert panel monitoring the implementation of the Convention in the different Member States. The plan will be coordinated by the Institute for Gender Equality. I come to your second question with a total of six concrete measures in France. Any case of intra-family violence must receive a criminal response. Rejections for opportunity reasons are not considered desirable. A report must always be made and sent to the King's Attorney General. The 2006 COL is very clear about this. Even if the conduct declared or established does not appear to be a criminal offence, a report containing the prevention code 42................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For example, in the event of new facts, a magistrate has all the elements necessary to assess the seriousness of the situation and to determine the most appropriate measures. Thus, cases of partner violence and intra-family violence are taken seriously and treated as a matter of priority. In order to strengthen the dimension of the intra-family context, much attention is paid to this in the work on the reform of the Criminal Code. Within the framework of the new sexual criminal law, whose parliamentary work started yesterday, the punishment will be strengthened in relation to the current situation. The vote will hopefully take place as soon as possible, but important hearings are now in progress. Of course, I also want to respect Parliament and give it the time it takes to do that important work. It is not enough, however, to commit only to a swift and severe punishment. This is not the main objective of criminal policy on intra-family violence. This form of violence is very complex and interpersonal and is not always easy to estimate. The main objective has always been to stop violence and to ensure that potential victims, especially children, are brought to safety. I'll come back later on your proposal B on the anti-approach bracelet. I put that to my answer to your oral question No. 55020039C submitted on 16 September 2021. With regard to your suggestions C and F, it is not true that in Belgium the flight principle of the victims is evident. Since 2012, police and judicial actors have had the possibility of a temporary home ban in the event of domestic violence. The law on the ban was translated into concrete guidelines for the police and the public prosecutor in 2012. Following the evaluation of the housing ban by the Public Prosecutor's Support Service and the resulting legislative amendment of 2014, the following major changes were adopted: firstly, the extension of the ten-day period to fourteen days, secondly, the mandatory supervision by the Communities' services of the person expelled from the home, and thirdly, the increase of the penalty for violating the house ban to one year. It also reviewed the guidelines for the police and the public prosecutor's office as well as the procedures for cooperation with the services of the Communities. Therefore, the revised version of the 2012 COL on 5 March 2020 is a joint letter from the College, the Minister of the Interior and the relevant ministers of the Länder. The new circulars aim to encourage public prosecutors to use this additional tool in the fight against partner violence and to include it in criminal law policy, in relation to the behaviour which is a serious and immediate danger but which does not appear to be a crime. The emphasis is on improving communication between actors and stakeholders. All the actors - the police, the public prosecutor, the courthouse, the victim reception service and the family court - will proceed quickly and in a very coordinated manner. It is crucial that these actors communicate quickly both with each other and with those involved. In addition, the King's Attorney will systematically take the victim's welcome service by communicating relevant documents and information as soon as possible and at the latest on the first working day following the decision to ban housekeeping. Furthermore, the King's Attorney should systematically instruct the courthouse to accompany and follow up the removal site during the temporary restraining order by communicating relevant documents and information as soon as possible and at the latest on the first working day of the house ban. The temporary ban will also have an important place in the new national action plan in the pipeline. I also refer to the 2020 COL on the generalisation of police re-visiting in situations of partner violence. The letter was adopted in the context of the corona crisis but it is intended to continue to apply it later depending on the outcome of the evaluation. You are right, however, that the supervision of perpetrators and victims is very important in order to avoid recurrence. We are also counting on the Communities to do their utmost to pay extra attention and resources to this. I come to your point D about the specialized rooms. A separate chamber has an important impact on the judicial organisation and on procedural matters. Moreover, the magistrates in the family courts specialize in civil procedural law which is substantially different from criminal procedure law. However, the existence of intra-family violence is taken into account in other specific cases dealt with by the family court, e.g. in determining the modalities of the housing of children, but it is always part of a set of factors that the judges must assess in order to obtain a correct picture of the child's interest which must remain decisive and of the parties to consider in the decision. In addition, chambers of amicable settlement are already seeking to reduce or end intra-family violence in order to reach agreements through conciliation mechanisms on the modalities for the exercise of parental authority, housing or maintenance benefits. The evaluation of the family court should give us a better picture of the efficiency of the procedures before the family court and the improvements that can be made. At present, it is not appropriate or at least premature to set up chambers dealing with both criminal and civil matters. Moreover, there is already, where necessary, an information flow between the family rooms and the other rooms. Reference can be made to Articles 764 and 765 of the Civil Code and the 2015 COL on guidelines relating to the opinion of the Public Prosecutor in civil matters. The 2006 COL, which was revised in 2015, explicitly focuses on the cooperation between the correctional parquets and the Youth and Family department of the parquets. It is important to continue working on improving this flow of information between the various actors, as well as on the training of magistrates. I refer, for example, to compulsory basic and continuing training in the field of sexual and intra-family violence, which was registered in the Act of 31 July and which is organised by the Institute of Judicial Training. In the meantime, more than 1,700 magistrates have already completed this training. I've come to ask for your second package. As regards the question relating to Flanders, you refer to the initiative of the Flemish Minister of Justice and Enforcement, an initiative which I support and welcome. The investigation concerns a survey of the operation of one of the departments within its competence, namely the Victim Home Office. The Minister responsible wishes to improve the functioning of its department, on the basis of this evaluation where necessary. The Justice Department as such is not cooperating, but I read that there will also be a questioning of the magistrates on how they evaluate the operation. It seems to me, of course, appropriate that we cooperate in this. You ask me if I have the intention of organising a similar inquiry. I don't intend to. In my opinion, it would not be a choice for me, as a federal minister, to evaluate the operation of services which do not fall within my competence. As regards the question of how the victim's privacy will be protected during the investigation, that is a question that should be asked to the colleague. I come to your third package with eight questions. Firstly, work within the government on the reform of the Criminal Code is under way. This is about titanic work, about thousands of pages. As soon as that work is completed, I will submit the draft to Parliament for discussion. As you know, the objective is to introduce a new, aggravated form of manslaughter as a crime, which is intrafamily manslaughter. This form of manslaughter, whether premeditated or not, will be punishable by life imprisonment. In the current Criminal Code, in case of partner violence where there is no premeditation, no life imprisonment can be pronounced. A life sentence can only be pronounced in the premeditation of the perpetrator. In the new Criminal Code, it is also intended to make further work on the treatment of disorders. Intra-family violence is often associated with a problem of drugs or alcohol. Alternative punitive measures to address the underlying cause and thus break the spiral will also be registered. I come to your second question. It is very important to better identify intra-family violence. Due to the lack of digitalisation of justice, this is not sufficiently possible to date. That is why the digital file is crucial. It will be first introduced for intra-family and sexual violence. This is how we can better identify the problem. First, a copy of the judgment will be made available on Justonweb by the end of October. The intention is to develop the digital file by systematically including more documents in Justonweb. In concrete terms, we want to include the electronic PV and the subpoena in Justonweb in the near future. Today the analyses are already underway to include these other documents in the file as soon as possible. However, it is not yet possible to give an exact timing. We depend on the technical development and especially on the extensive testing of the built technical building blocks. Then there are the suicide rates. In order to develop this point, discussions should be held with the police, since not all suicides give rise to the creation of a correctional file. Projects are currently underway to improve the efficiency of the exchange of information between the police and the judiciary and thus also to provide access to the basic data of certain facts identified in the field. The next point is the risk assessment tool. This tool already exists and its use is framed by the COL2020 of 26 June of that year. This tool provides a first risk assessment on partner violence for the police and the prosecutors. There are several objectives, the first of which is to highlight very alarming risk factors. These require not only that the parquet be immediately informed, but also, where appropriate, that the magistrate responds quickly and adequately to ensure the safety of the victim and his or her entourage. The second objective is to give the magistrate responsible for the file the opportunity to quickly understand the situation and to analyse it in depth through detailed reading of the file on the basis of the completed checklist. Finally, there is also a general sensitising objective. He points out to a police officer or magistrate the importance of an adequate evaluation of such situations and encourages them to place the facts indicated in the right context. It is therefore a digital checklist which the police carry out when the facts are established. The software can signal alarming risk situations to the justice and other sectors. The letter came into force on 1 January this year. The digital risk assessment tool itself was developed by the police and a pilot project is under way. We have already received confirmation that the data from this tool will be made available to the justice system by early next year, so that we can build business intelligence reports on this. On the justice side, we are continuing to build a recidivism tool, which can provide an assessment of the recidivism of certain suspects on the basis of the characteristics of the file. The restraining order was already addressed in one of your previous questions. I am also going to give you the latest figures, but I think you received them not so long ago. It is true that some parquets do this very well, while there is other wind silence, as in my own province of West Flanders. There are now two magistrates from my cabinet who visit all the parquets, with a very explicit emphasis on the instrument of the temporary ban on housekeeping. This must indeed be used even better. Then I'll come to the stalking alert and the anti-approach bracelet. As far as the mobile stalking alarm is concerned, you know this is on the agenda. A pilot project was launched in Ghent following the 2019 Ministerial circular. That project was based on a holistic approach, and I apologize for that word "safe" as well as multidisciplinary follow-up. After all, it is not enough simply to give victims an alarm. The security hatch is an app integrated into the 112 app where a portable button, connected via bluetooth to the victim's smartphone, allows the victim to notify the police very easily. Emergency power stations are also involved in the project so that these alarms are immediately followed up. It is also a national activity: the victim is therefore not restricted in his or her room of movement. The pilot project ended in December 2020. It was evaluated very positively and the further national roll-out of that alarm is now under way. The anti-touch bracelet is another technical tool that, as you indicate, is used in France. It allows a geolocalization of the victim and the unsub so that, if a certain distance is not respected, an alarm goes off. This tool requires both victim and perpetrator to be equipped with it. So there has to be an agreement from the unsub to wear such a tool. This immediately puts us in a different context than the mobile stalking alarm. For example, it can be imposed in France in criminal proceedings under the orders of the investigating judge or the so-called juge des libertés de la détention. The order may be given as an additional measure in the event of a judicial review pending the trial; as a penalty; and in addition in certain civil matters. It can therefore only enter into force after the arrest warrant, after the conviction or in the context of the execution of the sentence: so some time after the facts, and in life-threatening cases it is important to be able to intervene without having to wait for this stage of criminal proceedings. The mobile stalking alarm does not have these restrictions and can be deployed immediately. One does not exclude the other, Mr Bury, and this tool is also interesting and the possible planning needs to be analysed. We must not do this rashly. The French experience teaches us that the tool can have a huge impact on the victims. Some of them returned the bracelet after a few weeks because of the impact on their private life caused by permanent geolocalization, due to the stress caused by false alarms (apparently due to technical problems), by poorly set perimeters and even by the abuse of the perpetrators who deliberately exceed the perimeters to scare the victims. We must continue to evaluate and analyse it in order to anticipate the shortcomings identified in France and, in function, to see whether this can be incorporated into the Belgian framework. Then I come to the Family Justice Centers. For Flanders it is appropriate to refer to Safe Home as an overarching term, a collaboration between services that work with families where there is violence. There is cooperation with a number of permanent partners: the police, the parquet, the CAW and also the OCMW. Each region fills in its offer on the basis of needs and opportunities. It could be a Family Justice Center or a chain approach. It may also be that the Family Justice Center are different services, located in one place. Regardless of whether there is a Family Justice Center or a chain approach or not, the core of the concept of Safe Home is to offer victims a better, coordinated service with the aim of stopping violence and preventing escalation. Four Family Justice Centers are currently open in Flanders: Antwerp, Mechelen, Turnhout and Hasselt. In French-speaking Belgium, the main focus is on a multidisciplinary approach. The organisation of the Family Justice Centers and the Chain Approach Intra-Family Violence are the responsibility of the Länder. For more information, of course, please refer to the colleagues from the Länder. As for your point 7, you refer here to a part of Clare's Law, or Domestic Violence Disclosure Scheme, which was introduced in England and Wales in 2014 following the murder of a woman by her ex-partner. On the one hand, this method introduces the right to ask, the right to ask the police to obtain information about someone in the event of, for example, an aggressive partner, and, on the other hand, the right to know, which allows the police, in certain circumstances, to proactively inform someone if they believe that the person is at risk in view of the partner's violent past. Such right to information would also exist in New Zealand, Australia and Canada. We are, of course, open to any measure that can avoid future victims, but this measure must be looked at and approached with great caution, taking into account the right to privacy and the presumption of innocence. The measure was also discussed in England and Wales because of the different interests to be weighed against each other, but also because of the risk of phishing, for example. Moreover, according to recent figures, it is not clear whether the measures affect a reduction in the number of murders committed on women or whether such measures have had an impact on the search for help. I come to your last question. One of the actions of Justice in the National Action Plan on Violence against Women is to analyse and evaluate the current legislative framework on residence arrangements, rights of access, parental authority and its application. Recent amendments to the Spanish law, allowing the court to suspend joint parental authority and/or residence arrangements in respect of a parent subject to criminal proceedings for intra-family violence, will be taken into account in the assessment of the analysis and evaluation. However, on the basis of Article 9 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and on the basis of Article 8 of the ECHR, the separation of parent and child is only possible in the best interests of the child and may be temporary at most. So it should not be handled lightly. A child has a right to be with both parents. That right is not absolute. States have a wide discretion in taking the initial decision to separate children from their parents. However, a thorough review is needed. In addition, the European Court of Human Rights has ruled that the ultimate goal is to bring parents and children back together in the end. Madam President, Mrs Bury, that was my long answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u26	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your detailed explanation. I've noted that you say it's a priority. I can also tell from your comprehensive answer. I am reassured that the Istanbul Convention will be used as a guide in the National Action Plan, which will be presented in the coming weeks. There are, however, a number of issues that you do not agree with, such as the specialised courts mentioned in the Istanbul Convention. You say that these separate courts are difficult and that we have specialised judges who are committed to reconciliation and mediation. You're also saying that these judges are actually well aware of the whole situation. That's not right. They have no idea of the situation and of everything that takes place in criminal matters, even if a court of inquiry has issued a restraining order very quickly. Those courts don't know shit. Another issue is reconciliation and mediation. When we look at the Istanbul Convention on this point, we see that reconciliation and mediation are simply excluded. The Convention states that when there is intra-family violence, offenders and victims must be separated and that a door should not be kept open constantly for someone who can exert permanent pressure and continue to acidify things. It is important that you take a closer look at this convention and go along with it, and not just say that you will follow it, but that half of it will not be implemented. You are not in favour of the dismissal, any complaint must be prosecuted. In practice, e-mails and phones come in with testimonials that files have been closed for a year by the investigating judge, but nothing happens. Those files are gathering dust somewhere in a parquet. We're also watching Halle-Vilvoorde. This has not been treated as a priority in practice. You can say what you want to say and say that you want to deal with it as a matter of priority, but in practice that is not the case. That's what's in there collecting dust. The stalking alarm is being rolled out further. I'm glad you're going to investigate that anti-toe-approach bracelet further. Of course, the consequences in France must be looked at. You are talking about people with stress and perpetrators who will deliberately cross a certain perimeter. On the other hand, this shows that we are dealing with a really dangerous perpetrator. These are additional elements that show that these measures are certainly not for nothing, and that they are necessary. You're saying it can't be connected immediately. A investigating judge is caught fairly quickly in intrafamilial violence and also robs the unsub of his freedom quite quickly. That anti-touch bracelet can be applied to the perpetrator pretty quickly. You're saying that I'm wrong to think that fleeing to escape homes is the obvious thing. A lot of victims testify in practice that the police never told them they could stay in the house. They ask if they have a place to stay or get to a refuge. That house doesn't even come up sometimes. That too is the practice, but no different. You say that this will play an important role in the national action plan. You will also do a round of the parquets. You're worried about it, aren't you? You have explained the punishment and the guidance. There is often an addiction problem. It is important that these matters are dealt with and that these people can get on the right track. I haven't really had an answer on the digital. At the end of October, the verdict will be available on Justonweb. About the steps after that, I don't really have an exact timing. You yourself say that other factors depend on it, but I'm not really getting an answer. Then I come to the UK's proposal on privacy. Of course, it is important to balance these different interests, but when it comes to extremely criminal offenders, it seems to me that it is impossible for people not to be warned about them. A final point is the suspension of the residence scheme as in Spain. You insist there on the interests of the child and the temporality of the measure. I do think that in certain cases, when monstrous matters have taken place, it is important to refer again to Istanbul, in order to protect the victims, to put the perpetrators out of play and to look at security rather than directly at the temporary measure, and this as a necessary measure. At these times, the victims simply need to be protected, and that is why I believe that this is a very important proposal for further analysis. I have tabled a motion before the interplay for a number of recommendations to the government. I really hope it gets done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u27	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Katleen Bury and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - having regard to the fact that violence against women is taking on gruesome proportions; - whereas 40,000 reports of intra-family violence are made every year. 150 of them are violent crimes with a potential fatal outcome; - whereas it is not known how many victims a man or woman are as there are no official statistics; - whereas victims are still in the cold today, following yet another report of partner violence; - whereas the Family Justice Centers are still not rolled out in all Flemish provinces; - whereas effective legislation exists in the UK and Spain to combat this phenomenon; - having regard to the fact that my various interplays are completely ignored; asks the government: - urgently take the necessary initiatives to convict perpetrators of deadly partner violence for life; - assess the identification of partner violence and suicide rates; - introduce a new risk assessment tool; - increase the implementation of the temporary ban on housekeeping; - rolling out the mobile stalking alarm and implementing the anti-approach bracelet in current legislation (cf. Spain); - drastically shortening the time-limit for condemning cases of intra-family violence so that victims can be protected more quickly and efficiently; - finally rolling out Family Justice Centers in all provinces; - introduce a system warning individuals that their partner has a history of violence against their ex-partner (cf. UK); - introducing a law to take away visitation rights for children following intra-family violence (cf. Spain) '. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Katleen Bury and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, - considering that violence against women is increasing in alarming proportions; Whereas every year 40 000 reports of acts of domestic violence are recorded, including 150 violent offences which could lead to death; Whereas the distribution of the number of victims between men and women is not known since there are no official statistics; Whereas, at present, some victims are still not taken into account after having repeatedly denounced acts of violence between partners; Whereas the Family Justice Centres are not yet in place in all the Flemish provinces; Whereas in the United Kingdom and Spain there is effective legislation to combat this phenomenon; - Whereas my various inquiries in this regard are completely disregarded; Asks the government: - to take the necessary initiatives without delay so that the perpetrators of violence between partners who led to death can be sentenced to life imprisonment; - to examine closely the relationship between partner violence and suicide statistics; - to put in place a new risk assessment tool; - to further apply the temporary ban on residence; - deploy the mobile harassment alarm and the anti-approximation bracelet provided for in the current legislation (cf. Spain); - drastically reduce the time taken to try cases of domestic violence, so that victims can be protected more quickly and effectively; - finally set up Family Justice Centres in all provinces; - to set up a system warning people that their partner has a violent past towards an ex-partner (cf. United Kingdom); - to put in place a law to remove access to children in cases of domestic violence (cf. Spain)." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u28	Mr Minister, there is some nervousness on the west coast and in the Westhoek because there is uncertainty about the future of our courts. Law, case law and courts must be figuratively close. People must feel involved in justice in their region. However, they must also be literally close. It is important that people can go to court in an accessible way, that they do not have to travel long distances and that they get there easily by public transport. Today, that's a legal arrangement. The seats of courts are enshrined in the law. The law thus determines where they should be, but the story tells us that you would have plans to amend that law. This concerns Article 186 of the Civil Code. The proposal would seem to be that these courts would no longer be enshrined in the law itself, but that the Presidents of the courts could decide in the future to move. A lot of people, including myself, are nervous about that. What exactly will that give, especially before the local court in Veurne and Ypres? This is primarily about the company court, but at later stages perhaps also about the court of first instance and the labour court. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. A lot of letters were sent to you, including from the Westhoek meeting and from the West Flemish desk. Motions have been approved, including in my own city council, by the way, on the initiative of the majority parties CD&V and Open Vld. So this is a widespread concern. Did you receive any letters? What's your answer to that? What exactly is the plan? There is some ambiguity about that. We heard yesterday that a move from a court of law is being made possible in the context of the floods in Limburg. That will be on the agenda of the plenary tomorrow. However, this is very strictly framed. The amendment of the law states that this will only be possible in cases of force majeure, that it will only be temporary and that, when such an opinion comes from the President of the Court, it will be no more than an opinion and that the removal will be decided by a royal decision to be submitted to the Council of Ministers. It will therefore be an effective political decision. Will the change be similar? Will there be barriers or is it really the President of the Court who could change that very flexibly? Finally, what is your personal opinion on this matter? Even if the procedure changes and the Presidents of the courts decide on it, it is interesting to know your opinion. Do you think that the courts in Veurne and Ypres should continue to exist and retain their powers to the full?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u29	Flemish Interest and N-VA are clearly shoulder to shoulder with regard to the concerns about the courts of Ypres and Veurne, among others.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u30	Colleagues, I would like to clarify first of all that my intention to amend Article 186 of the Code of Justice is currently being discussed within the government. The preliminary draft means that the President of the Court may, by means of a divisional regulation, make a proposal to centralise matters or procedures in one or more departments. That possibility already exists for certain matters listed in the article in question, but we want to extend this competence to all matters or procedures. The present preliminary draft law expressly states that no seat may be abolished or undermined and that such a division of laws must be justified in the light of the needs of the service and the improvement of the service. We have indeed received a letter from the regional consultation and we have taken note of their concerns and provided them with an answer. What exactly was answered, I will explain in a moment. Following the discussion of this draft within the government, the advice of the desks was requested. The West Flanders Bar has replied that they are opposed to the abolition of seats. The present preliminary draft provides for the retention of these seats. I repeat that the preliminary draft expressly states that such a divisional regulation must be justified in the light of the needs of the service and the improvement of the service. The Chairman should ask for the advice of the local prosecutor, the employment officer, the local desk and the local chief clerk in advance. In addition, this case-sharing regulation should be ratified by KB after consultation in the Council of Ministers. We are going to use the resources we have in the area of justice in a sensible and efficient way. For example, the President of a court may, by means of a divisional regulation, make a proposal to centralise matters or procedures in one or more departments. That possibility already exists for certain matters and we want to broaden it. For example, the president could choose to have a certain section deal with trafficking in human beings. This is the case, for example, in West Flanders, where trafficking in human beings is treated in Bruges and for cybercrime, for example, in Mechelen. An efficient justice system is, in my opinion, a specialised justice system. Specialization necessarily also involves scaling up, because not every specialisation can be present to the same extent everywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u31	Minister, you have removed some of my concerns. You say quite clearly that the seats of the courts are preserved, but also that part of the services can be relocated, for which you usefully refer to a number of examples such as trafficking in human beings and terrorism. These are indeed major criminal phenomena, but your proposal could centralise much more services. In theory, therefore, the seat of a court could continue to exist, but in fact it would do virtually nothing anymore. So you're taking away some of my concerns, but not everything. You also confirm that there will be an opinion from the President, even after consultation, but that the decision will eventually be politically taken, because a royal decision must be adopted which has been consulted with the entire Council of Ministers. So you will have to decide, which is why my most important question was what your personal opinion is. Will you sign such a move of services or not? Unfortunately, we remain hungry in this respect, because you did not reply. I call on you to do so in the future, because that question lives across all party boundaries. That is what motions are being passed on in a lot of city councils in the Westhoek and they have the right to know what you want to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u32	Mr Minister, Mr Dillen is following closely the amendment of Article 186 of the Court's Code. In doing so, it has always stressed the importance of proximity to justice and called for the preservation of existing courts at the various levels. That is, of course, important, because the proximity of justice means trust for us. The gap between the citizen and the judiciary must be kept as small as possible. You are removing this concern, but we will, of course, continue to follow it. That is why the Flemish Interest, like the Westhoek consultation and the counter, once again explicitly advocates the preservation of the courts of Ypres and Veurne.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u33	Debates of the European Parliament 55020111C by Mr Van Hecke and 55020245C, 55020246C and 55020247C by Mrs Gabriels are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u34	Brussels suffers from a great shortage of peace judges. According to various media, 7 out of 19 cantons would be out of a holder. For the vacant places there would hardly be any candidates. And as if this is not yet enough to postulate two permanent peace judges at the moment for another post which could lead to a deficit of 9 out of 19, just under 50% next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u35	For some time now there has been a large number of vacant places for the function of a peace court on the Brussels peace courts. In your policy statement, you spoke of additional investments in Justice, among other things, in the field of computer science and the recruitment of more staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, this question comes back in various forms and modalities today. We invest part of the extra resources of the Justice Department in additional magistrates and legal and administrative support staff. We are also taking action to make justice more attractive. I have just referred in my reply to Mrs Dillen's question that we want to improve attractiveness by providing a better social status, better workplaces, digital work environment, anchoring homework for legal staff and a remuneration for it, summer placements, student placements and the employee branding campaign that will be launched very soon. You have asked questions about the Brussels problem. The vacancies for peace judges in Brussels would be systematically republished until they were filled. We are no longer waiting for monitoring or job vacancy plan. However, it remains a fact that the candidates are very thinly sown. That is why we took an additional legislative initiative. A preliminary draft is currently under discussion within the government, based on a joint note from the Supreme Court of Justice and the Presidents of the Courts of First Instance in Brussels. For example, we want to install overarching head vriffers. They can ensure stability and uniformity and act as an interlocutor for the Presidents of the Court of First Instance presiding over the Management Committees in Brussels. Through the pooling of peace dishes, we want to remove the individual peace dishes from their isolation so that better cooperation can be achieved. This leads to a more attractive working situation for the peace judges. We want to increase the possibility of attracting experienced lawyers by increasing the quota of recruitments after an oral evaluation examination, the so-called third way, from 12 to 15% by taking as a basis of calculation not the number of magistrates per jurisdiction, but the national number of magistrates. As a result, more room will be created specifically for Brussels for recruitment by this third way. Through this third way, we wish to attract more people and to introduce an equivalence with other exams in terms of the number of times one is allowed to take part in the exams. The period of validity when successful is increased to seven years. On your third question on the stage in which the social status is in place, I had contact with the chairman of the Magistrate's Advisory Council last week. It's going well. There were a number of bottlenecks, but we talked them out. We expect the first texts by the beginning of next year. It is a debate that has been going on for a long time. I'm sure you know that. With regard to the state of the allocation model, I have just given a very detailed answer to the questions put by the President concerning workload measurements. I think I'd better refer to that. I would like to reiterate that there is a preliminary draft on the table to fill in flexible frameworks. There are therefore many drafts coming to the committee, Madam President. With regard to the open vacancies, a very specific question, I propose that I provide the answer in writing. It concerns Anderlecht 1 and 2, Brussels 1, 2 and 4, Hasselt and Sint-Joost-ten-Node. A question was also asked about the delay in the various peace courts. For this I refer, as I did earlier in response to a question about the delay in justice, to the cooperation protocol and the double approach. In the short term, we will provide priority assistance to the courts which are already well known to be lagging behind. The courts and courts in Brussels are specifically concerned. In addition, on the basis of a zero measurement, the College will be able to determine where there is a problem with the treatment period. Where appropriate, the College will provide support to the Management Committee concerned in order to develop an appropriate action plan. How much time does it take between a petition or subpoena and the preliminary hearing? Those figures will be delivered to you at the end of the month, as I am told, so at the end of September you will receive those answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have explained your campaign and I have also listened to the answer you have given to my colleague Mr Dillen. You are talking about republishing the legislation and the third way. I think those are wipes for the bleeding. The social status of the magistrates is an issue that has been on the agenda for a very long time. You are now saying that this will be reviewed at the beginning of next year. But when is the conclusion? At some point it's just a given: when you pay peanuts, you get monkeys. Worst case scenario, you won't even get anyone. More specifically in relation to the problems in Brussels, I would also like to know why judges stop there. Perhaps there are other problems at the root, for example that people simply do not like working in that area at all. On Canvas I looked at some reports, not about peace judges, but about magistrates, who are more involved in criminal law. Those magistrates say that sometimes there is a threat and that when they leave the parquet buildings they should look around to see if they are not being waited for by some person, given their verdicts. We are also aware of the problems of riots in Brussels. Hitting hotheads out of nowhere with a jack on the head of policemen. Perhaps it should be considered whether or not this problem is being addressed and how to remediate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In my view, the delay in justice is one of the biggest problems in the justice system. As far as the Brussels peace courts are concerned, I am told by several people that the situation is dramatic. In particular, I asked about the time lag between a petition and a subpoena because I hear that sometimes this takes months in some places. It is normal for a court case to have a certain duration, but I find it dramatic if, for example, a landlord can only present his problem in court for the first time after months. I read this morning in reply to a written question from a colleague that has reduced the number of magistrates by half over the last five years. This is unseen and unacceptable in our rule of law. I hear that a number of initiatives are being taken in the preliminary draft. I hope that this will make the profession a little more attractive and that it will be able to recruit faster. I am also looking forward to your answer to that written question, because if we know the figures, we know better where we stand and how to look for solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u39	Minister, "The Brussels parquet has dismissed a file against two Chinese spies. However, American investigators had revealed in some detail how the two had worked at a Belgian company." That was read in the media on September 1st. The Chinese would have hacked and spied on corporations on a large scale. Cybercrime today is screaming and banging. Hackers not only recently managed to access the government's servers, our companies also appear to be a popular target. The sources of cybercrime do not appear to be only in China, the Chinese government often turns up as a party involved. As a blow to the head, hackers and cyber spies can get away with it. One year after opening the file against these cybercriminals, it was decided not to prosecute them. The threat of cybercrime, especially from China, and the dangers to our companies, our privacy and the government must be stopped. Do you have concrete and recent figures on cybercrime against our companies, citizens and the government? I'm talking about hacking, ransomware and such. Can you get it to me? What steps will you take to protect our companies and institutions from hacking and other forms of cybercrime, especially from China? What is the current state of affairs regarding the security of public ICT infrastructure? Following the cyber attack a few months ago, have any traces of hacking or unprotected backdoors been found that allow unauthorized access? Was this investigated? What signal do you think we give when we just let cyber criminals and corporate spies go unpunished? When will the threat of cyber espionage and cybercrime finally be taken seriously? Will you provide additional resources for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u40	Thank you, Mr President, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank First of all, I would like to remind you that as Minister of Justice, I cannot, cannot and do not want to intervene in individual matters. Here, of course, lies the constitutional independence of the judiciary as provided for in Article 151 of the Constitution. On the basis of the information provided by the Brussels Office, I can inform you that the file was classified without result. The alleged facts date from 2018 and became known in July 2020. The arguments that led to the dismissal are the following. Firstly, both suspects are also being prosecuted for espionage in the United States. Secondly, it also concerns Chinese nationals who stayed in China and on which no information was available that they had already been or had stayed effectively in Belgium. The most important thing is that they will of course be prosecuted, but not in our country. In reply to your first question, I will of course provide you with the statistics in writing. With regard to your second and fifth questions, it is of course true that, apart from the individual handling of this file by the court, cybersecurity and the fight against cybercrime is a priority for this government. Why? Because in May the National Security Council had a cybersecurity strategy developed by the CCB (Cybersecurity Centre Belgium) together with the CCIV (Information and Security Coordination Committee). The CCB is run by Mr Miguel De Bruycker, who does this in an excellent way. As Minister of Justice, I have invested extra EUR 250 million in cybercrime in the framework of the additional resources for Justice in the long term. Addressing cybercrime in general is one of the priorities of this legislature. We are planning additional training on cybercrime for magistrates and legal staff, we are also strengthening the Institute for Judicial Training in terms of staff and also providing more resources. There has indeed been a large increase in cybercrime, also due to the coronapandemics this phenomenon has been reinforced. In the public prosecutor's office, it is therefore necessary to provide additional specialised cybermagistrates, so as to keep pace with foreign affairs and with the evolution in the domain. Next year, €1.46 million will be invested in 7 additional magistrates and 26 supporting forces in the specialized training of these persons. It is the case that the budgetary human resources of the police and the judiciary need to be continuously aligned in order to meet the growing challenges of cybercrime. Without a performant repressive hatch, perpetrators will not be adequately prosecuted or deterred, allowing them to continue their activities undisturbed. This need was translated into a cybersecurity strategy under the editorial board of the CCB. This strategy was validated by the National Security Council and also describes the need for the next few years to meet the challenges by public administration that plays a role in the cybersecurity chain. The CCB itself collects all available information from different sources on a daily basis, including the intelligence service and other partners. This information is permanently shared with the administrators of (...) systems through various channels. Both measures and policies are adapted very quickly to the evolution of the threat. I come to your third question. Within the framework of its legal mandate, the CCB continuously follows the vulnerable IT systems connected to the Internet. Public institutions and essential service providers will have access to the early warning system, the notification system that provides information on cyber security, cyber threats and the monitoring of infections. This information can then be used to improve the internal security of our own ICT systems. The organisation to which reference is made has indeed taken additional measures, including continuous monitoring of its network and systems. For this purpose, it calls on an external party, and also the CCB continues to advise the affected organisation further. I come to your fourth question. We're not giving that signal. The two spies in question are being prosecuted in the United States, and we are investing in tackling cybercrime. However, this is not an obvious battle. The difficulty of allocating cyber attacks with sufficient certainty and identifying and prosecuting the perpetrators undoubtedly contributes to the attractiveness of cyber attacks, both for state actors and for organised crime. In order to arrive at a successful prosecution, the perpetrators must be identified and proved guilty. In the event of a cyber attack, this is only exceptionally possible. After all, it is usually impossible to obtain direct information about the perpetrators from the forensic data of the cyberattack. The attribution is usually made on the basis of indirect information, such as the malware tools used, the modes operandi, the infrastructure used, and possibly the activities of the perpetrators on the slaver's network. However, this indirect information has little probative force. Some of the unsub groups deliberately lay false tracks. In English they are called false flags. The fact that a cyber attack can be carried out from a long distance is certainly also an additional difficulty. Unless the perpetrators make mistakes, which cannot be ruled out, and why the victims certainly have to file a complaint, there is little chance of successfully prosecuting the perpetrators. However, this does not mean that nothing can be done. At Belgian level, there has recently been an attribution procedure for cyber attacks. That procedure is completely independent of the judicial investigation, which is conducted independently. The FPS State Department has the lead in that attribution procedure. This indicates that the attribution of a cyber attack in that case is seen as a diplomatic action. A framework was also established at European level for a joint diplomatic response to cyber attacks. It's called the Cyber Diplomacy Toolbox. The public attribution and even sanction measures are possibilities of that toolbox. These measures can also be used against countries that do not act against criminal hackers operating from their territory. So we certainly still have a way to go in making our citizens, businesses and institutions more resilient. The cybersecurity strategy of the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium, which I have just explained, is just how we will proceed in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It goes without saying that cybercrime certainly increases day after day in a world with advanced digitisation. Cybercriminals are also becoming more sophisticated and are not being stopped by national borders. You replied that the cybercriminals in question will be prosecuted in the United States. I hope they will also be punished for their crimes against Belgian companies. In any case, an improved approach to cybercrime needs to be taken. You stress that an additional 250 million will be made available to justice for more training and the appointment of seven additional magistrates. That's a good thing. I hope that will have the desired effect. With regard to the government's servers, you stress that there is no danger at the moment and that no backdoors were found. The hacking of the servers, of course, rings the alarm bells. China often turns up as a party involved. A few months ago, Prime Minister De Croo underlined in plenary that our digital fingerprints are only on our identity card and not in a government database. Fortunately, I would say, otherwise they might have been hacked and the information might have been in China. As far as the detection of cybercriminals is concerned, that is of course a difficult issue when they leave false flags behind to lead detectives astray. But what good would the detection of cybercriminals do if they were allowed to go unpunished? So I hope that these two Chinese in the US will also be tried for their cybercriminal facts here in Belgium. And what good is it if one does not dare to make a fist against China, for example? I referred earlier to seven additional magistrates. Good that they will be used, because they are now also used for people who accidentally drive 1 km per hour too fast. Cybercrime certainly deserves extra people because we need to stop impunity and work on a rigorous prosecution of hackers and cyber spies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u42	You're making the comparison with road safety. That's a false argument. I don't know if you know any of the victims of traffic crime, Mr Gilissen. I met a mother this weekend who lost her daughter in a road accident a year ago. I don't want to put you in that confrontation. We also take traffic crime seriously. If people drive 1 km per hour too fast, they don't get flashed because, as you know, there is a technical margin of 6 km. We take traffic crime seriously and we take cybercrime seriously, for the safety of our people and especially of our children.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u43	Mr Minister, road safety is, of course, important, and I am not going to deny it. I am not saying that action should not be taken against people who commit serious traffic offences and the like. And every accident is too much. Nor have I said that we should not focus on this, but above all that we should finally make an extra effort to combat cybercrime.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u44	Minister, in reply to a written question, your colleague Minister Verlinden gave me a number of figures on non-compliance with temporary house bans. In 2020 no less than 24 infringements were detected in the province of Antwerp and in Limburg there were 21. If I take the figures of how often temporary house bans are pronounced, then we should not be surprised that the weight of these figures lies in these provinces. Limburg's parquet has no less than 60% of the house bans and the Antwerp parquet 30%. The two provinces together thus account for 90% of all temporary house bans. These figures do raise a number of questions which, among other things, bring me to your attention. After all, I will also ask Minister Verlinden these questions. The percentages of outlawed house bans in mind can be found to be much more often violated in the province of Antwerp than in the province of Limburg. Can you explain why this is happening? Is there an explanation for that? Secondly, since the provinces of Antwerp and Limburg are the frontrunners in expressing these temporary house bans, I wonder whether there is an effect of the house bans on the presence of intra-family violence through reports and possible convictions against the regions where this is much less common. Thirdly, can you tell me why this measure is being applied so little in other regions? Maybe that's more of a question for Mrs Verlinden. I'll leave that in the middle. Finally, you have given me the figures on non-compliance with home prohibitions, but what happens if an unsub violates this restraining order? What are the consequences of this? As I have already mentioned, I will also ask your colleague these questions, but I was wondering if you could shed some light on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u45	Your first two questions are interesting, but the answer requires a much more in-depth analysis and study. At present, the Public Prosecutor does not have scientific studies to answer questions about the effect of the temporary house ban measure or about the differences between arrondissements regarding the non-compliance with the measure. What we do know is that the initial procedure was too cumbersome and the legislator acted by making changes to this mechanism. In particular, the College of Attorneys General seeks to encourage the recent revision of the 2012 COL on the temporary house ban and the use of those measures by prosecutors. The temporary ban is one of the instruments available to magistrates when dealing with situations of domestic violence. However, apparently some parquets prefer other solutions to tackle problems of intra-family violence. Moreover, the multidisciplinary approach through the famous Family Justice Centers in Antwerp and Limburg is undoubtedly the furthest, making the practice of the house bans most applicable. In reply to your third and final question, I can inform you that the non-compliance with a house ban is punishable by Article 5 of the 2012 Act and can therefore give rise to an answer chosen from the usual range of responses available to the public prosecutor. Failure to comply with the ban can be punishable by a prison sentence of eight days to one year and a fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u46	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your clear answer. In Antwerp and Limburg, the methodology of the Family Justice Centers is indeed the furthest. I hope that you will also give an impetus to this method in the other provinces, so that we can work better there too. What I regret, however, is that no in-depth analysis of the various districts is being carried out. These analyses could really teach us something and we could draw useful conclusions from them. I therefore hope that these analyses will be included in the future. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u47	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée, thank you for your comments. With regard to the Family Justice Centers, of course, we have good contact with our Flemish fellow Minister for Justice and Enforcement, who is competent. We are working with her to ensure that the Family Justice Centers, also in my own province, are used in other provinces. After all, we find that the uptake of temporary house bans is relatively low. So one is a better scientist than the other. Your request for an in-depth analysis is a good suggestion. I'll see if we can free up capacity at the D.A.'s office to at least investigate that. The temporary bans, which we have discussed with Mrs Bury, are indeed an effective means of combating domestic violence at an early stage. So I'll do my very best at the state's attorney's office.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u48	Madam President, Minister, may I repeat for a moment? Thank you for your addition. These analyses can indeed be very useful. I really hope you manage to introduce them and roll out the Family Justice Centers in the other provinces as well. After all, this is very important and we can see some of the effects of this, including in the case of temporary house bans. When rolling out our resolution and studying the mechanism of intra-family violence in the Social Emancipation Advisory Committee, we have discovered a number of other benefits of these Family Justice Centers. I believe that this should be a priority when it comes to intra-family violence. In any case, thank you very much for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u49	The government agreement provides that the policy on drug use will focus on prevention, risk reduction and assistance to under-age and problematic users.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u50	On 6 September, the Brussels City Council approved a protocol agreement to install a spray chamber in the Woeringenstraat, in the centre of Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u51	Madam President, Mr Aouasti, Mrs De Wit, at the beginning of July I have already received a number of similar questions from Mrs De Wit, so I will try not to repeat them too much. Mrs De Wit, I will answer your question first in connection with Liège. The similar project in Liège started in 2018 under my predecessor Koen Geens and was recently discontinued. Following an effective closure due to temporary administrative difficulties, the consumption space for low risk users in Liège has reopened its doors for a new three-year period. With regard to the project in Brussels, I refer to my reply at the beginning of July. The Brussels parquet is not the initiator of the project, but it is within the margins I have already outlined. A circular is currently being prepared with local police to ensure that this is done in the best possible conditions. For the question of the drug law, I refer to the federal government agreement. In the area of drug policy, we are continuing the current policy. However, there is an evaluation of the drug law for discussion by the general drug policy cell. In a first phase, gaps, bottlenecks and legislative changes will be identified in order to define the debate. As for Mr Aouasti's question, according to the special law on institutional reforms, the prevention of drug addiction is the responsibility of the federated entities. It is therefore not for me to comment on this matter. We are pursuing a repressive policy in terms of supply. According to Say's law, every offer creates its own demand. As far as demand is concerned, we treat problematic users primarily as a public health problem, hence the existence of drug treatment chambers. Initially there was a treatment room in Ghent, this initiative was followed in Bruges and some were also created in Antwerp. This method is currently applied in Ghent, Bruges, Antwerp, Malines, Turnhout and Charleroi, which I have visited. The president of the Namur court would also consider setting up such a chamber. The multidisciplinary approach is also extended to other courts and other issues such as violence, assault, alcohol and some youth. The aim is to help those who commit addiction offences to overcome them through follow-up and treatment. In order to be able to apply these good practices at the national level, resources have been provided in the budget for strengthening justice. We plan to strengthen this approach in the public prosecutor's offices as well as in the courts. Within the courts, this falls within the framework of the additional budget for the priorities for the courts of first instance, namely, the treatment or monitoring chambers, the strengthening of the family chambers and the accelerated follow-up. A total of 24 judges, 24 clerks and 24 assistants were released. To this end, planned recruitments are under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u52	Minister, it's a pleasure to hear because it's been a long time since we were finally considering a lot more. Drug addiction, like other addictions, must first be seen as a public health problem. It is in this direction that we must move forward, continue and strengthen. I am also pleased to see that in Charleroi it is appropriate, and that in Namur it is envisaged. I hope that, with the recruitments that are under way, other courts of first instance will be able to develop these approaches not only in the area of drugs but also for all the addiction phenomena that create criminal or criminal by-products but that we must be able to deal with them in a much more holistic way. In any case, this is interesting, the work is under way and I thank you for that. We'll meet soon for the next round and see how it will have developed again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u53	Thank you very much for referring to your previous reply. I'll follow up on the situation in Liège. You say that there is a protocol agreement and that there will be a circular letter. I'm sure it's necessary. You know our position on user rooms. That's a junkie walhalla. We do not agree with that, because possession of narcotic drugs is banned today. Facilitation or facilitation of drug use is also prohibited. That's what federal law says, even if there's still an evaluation of federal law. The design of such a utility room is actually a violation of both provisions. Then we're gonna need that circular. After all, there is now a need for the public prosecutor's commitment not to prosecute drug possession in the area up to one kilometer outside the user's area and that the facilitation of drug use will not be prosecuted. A particularly large tolerance zone is being created. That's irresponsible. It's almost impossible to control by the police. Anyone with some drugs in their pocket who gets caught near such a room can account for this with the tolerance zone. The police will have to check if that's true or not. I understand that people want to focus on aid, prevention and treatment. That's very important. Prevention is important. Treatment is important. Repression is also part of the hatch. Those elements need to work together. If treatment or prevention does not work, repression must be used. Now just setting up a user space in a tolerance zone gives a totally wrong signal that it can apparently be safe there. Drug use is never safe. That's the only signal we can and can give. Facilitating and making this possible is completely contrary to the idea of detachment and is therefore completely at odds with the prevention story. Mr Aouasti, that is also why it is at odds with your approach that it is a matter of health. After all, we are sending the signal that it can be safe and the police will have to tolerate it, on the basis of a circular. That's a very difficult exercise. It may have been designed with the best of intentions, but it is a totally wrong signal. Normalizing drugs or pretending it's safe doesn't dissuade them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u54	On 1 April, the Brussels prosecutor Jean-Marc Mailleur switched to the private sector. Thus, the Brussels parquet, with some 300,000 cases a year, ended up without a chef.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u55	At the Brussels parquet the King's Attorney left in April. Replacement is difficult because the Constitutional Court destroyed the appointment procedure established during the sixth state reform. According to this court, it was not justified that a Dutch-speaking candidate could never qualify for the post of prosecutor or vice versa a French-speaking candidate for that of deputy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u56	Madam President, with the judgment of 30 June 2014, the Constitutional Court annulled Article 57 (5) of the Law of 19 July 2012 on the reform of the judicial district of Brussels. In Article 43 of Law No 15 June 1935, on the use of languages in court cases, the article introduced a § 4quater to determine the language role to be played by the Procurator of the King and the Labour Auditor of Brussels and their assistants and on the basis of which they must demonstrate a thorough knowledge of the other language. For the King's Attorney and the Labour Auditor, that's French, for their deputies that's Dutch. The Constitutional Court stated, inter alia, in its considerations which led to the destruction that I quote: "In view of the fact that the Procurator of the King and the Auditor of the Administrative Arrondissement of Brussels-Capital, in an administrative district whose territory corresponds to the bilingual area of Brussels-Capital, it is not reasonable to consider that a person who has obtained his diploma in Dutch is not eligible for posts, and that a person who has obtained his diploma in French is not eligible for the post of deputy attorney or assistant official in the Administrative Arrondissement of Brussels-Capital." Consequently, the Constitutional Court has lifted the obligation imposed by the Law of 19 June 2012 to hold a French-language diploma in order to be appointed a prosecutor of the King or employment officer in Brussels. Article 43 (4) therefore no longer exists, there is no longer any compulsory bilingualism for the King's Attorney and the Labour Auditor. The judgment dates back to 30 June 2014 and was not remediated, not even by the previous government. Following this judgment, the mandate of Jean-Marc Meilleur as the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels was extended until he terminated his mandate on 1 April 2020 and resigned his office as magistrate. He is currently replaced by the first deputy attorney of the King who used to be his Dutch-speaking deputy. The ad interim prosecutor shall have the necessary evidence of bilingualism. I am aware that the Brussels court must have a fully-fledged prosecutor with full authority, even though the deputy is now in charge of the court. We are therefore looking for a solution that meets and takes into account the judgment of the Constitutional Court seven years ago. There are legally different options for this. One of them was pronounced by the Attorney General of Brussels. In the meantime, I am investing in the courts of first instance and the courts of appeal of Brussels in order to provide the best possible service to citizens and to meet the many challenges posed by crime.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u57	I think your answer is thin, Minister. After all, you are not putting forward a solution. We all know that this is due to the BHV issue, but we need to be able to cut the buttons. The Supreme Court of Justice has also alerted you that it cannot go on like this, and we are still not getting an answer. The deputy is in office now, and it's better to have a full prosecutor, but much more you don't say about it. We will continue to question you about this. It is unacceptable that the prosecutor is no longer here and that his position is not filled. It is up to your government to find a solution, to agree and to take into account what the Constitutional Court has decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u58	As a result of the sixth state reform, a provision had to be destroyed, which was predictable. It is unacceptable for a prosecutor in the bilingual district of Brussels to be able to carry out his duties only if he has a French-language diploma. The situation was predictable, but there has to be a solution and I do not hear you giving it. I also did not receive an answer to my question whether you consider that the King's Attorney should have a proven bilingualism or am I mistaken?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u59	Are there any other questions? We will, of course, try to find a solution, but you also know that it is not a simple matter. Bilingualism must indeed be a requirement. That seems quite obvious to me in Brussels. I am trying to find a pragmatic solution, because it needs to be found, Mrs Bury. I'm looking for them behind the scenes. Some things are complex in politics, but that's why we're here. I'm doing the best I can.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u60	There's a gap in the law. It doesn't say in the law that the King's Attorney should be bilingual. For this reason, the N-VA Group is tabling a legislative proposal so that this would be dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u61	Mediation is an alternative form of dispute resolution that has proved its added value. In Belgium, the Federal Conciliation Commission (FBC) is the body that promotes mediation, recognises mediators and training and deals with complaints about mediators. In your policy paper, you have expressed your support for mediation and for the FBC that you want to give a more central role. You also support the FBC's action plan which aims to put the federal mediation service on the map. It states that it is solely responsible for the recognition of training, permanent training and the recognition of mediators and aims at high quality standards. In the context of the recognition of the training, the FBC decided at the end of March 2021 to amend the conditions and procedure for the recognition of basic training, specialisation training and continuous training for recognised mediators. However, a new training regulation was only introduced in 2019. This amendment to the training regulations had not been made either at the request of or after consultation with the training institutes. That decision of the FBC raises a number of questions. There were also a number of problems in the implementation of the decision: not all recognised training providers were informed, the administrative procedures for complying with the rules were very cumbersome and the FBC secretariat did not always respond to questions from the training providers. It is now September, the start of the academic year, and the current situation is still unclear, so that some recognised providers of training still do not know whether their training will lead to recognised mediators. Members of the FBC would also themselves be providers of approved training. So they actually make their own rules and control their own training courses. That's why my questions are: What is the reason why, just two years after the new training regulations, which increased the number of hours, a further change is being imposed on approved mediation training courses? Are you aware of the problems identified above? Are you planning on doing something about this? Do you consider there to be any potential conflicts of interest with members of the Bureau of the FBC? Who controls the FBC? Is there a law foreseen when there are complaints about the functioning of the FBC? Who can be addressed? How is it that, as a federal institution, the FBC can impose far-reaching substantive and pedagogical decisions on training without the presence of people elected on the basis of educational competences in this Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u62	At the start-up of the current FBC, a large-scale project, an action plan, was developed to promote mediation. This action plan focuses, among other things, on the Commission's legal role, namely training. The need for sound quality of mediation, mediators and training has been identified as an important element and action point. This is why the training regulations were reviewed internally by the Committee for the Recognition of Training and the Succession of Continuing Training over a period of more than one year. On the basis of this analysis and further internal discussions within the Committee on the Recognition of Training and the Succession of Continuing Training, a draft new regulation was drawn up. This was further discussed at several meetings and finally approved by the Bureau on 30 March 2021. Special attention is now being given to both the quality element and the new developments within mediation, such as the virtual, international aspect of mediation. This regulation covers both basic and specialization training and the continuing training of mediators. To your questions 2a and 3, I can answer you the following. Both through the Commission and through a number of Dutch language training centres, my cabinet was informed of a number of concerns about the new training regulations. It is important to know that the Commission adopts decisions or regulations on an independent basis. It shall perform its duties in accordance with the Articles of the Code of Justice, starting with Article 17/27, and in accordance with its internal domestic rules and its legal structure. The Commission's staff and resources shall be made available by the FPS Justice. The decisions of the Commission shall be administrative acts against which provision is open to the Council of State. Given that the Commission is a completely independent administrative authority, I cannot intervene as a minister, not even when the regulations are being drawn up. Individual complaints about the operation can be made to the Federal Ombudsman. Nevertheless, my cabinet has repeatedly consulted constructively with the Commission on these concerns. For example, the Commission informed my cabinet that, in the context of the preparation of an action plan and the monthly newsletter of March and May 2020, it was announced that the training rules were being reviewed. Following the establishment of the Regulation, a number of concrete actions were undertaken by the Commission, including an adjustment to hybrid training. As far as your question 2B is concerned, the members of the Commission shall be designated in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Court's Code. The legislator has opted for a system of selection and appointment through a statutory step-by-step procedure. The members of the Commission are specialists in the matter. Specialization can be both practical and academic. This principle was also respected in the current composition of the Commission. Thirdly, in order to avoid the possible appearance of bias, the rule in the Commission is that each Member refrains from debating and deciding on dossiers in which he or she may be involved. A new deontological code was recently issued, as well as a new internal regulation. My cabinet asked the Commission about the adoption of these regulations. This was preceded by a whole process of decision-making with long internal discussion. In order to prevent any appearance of bias, the President has chosen not to be present in the final debate, the final decision and the vote. Fourthly, the provisions of the Court's Code confer on the Commission the specific power to draw up training programmes and training regulations for recognised mediators. The members of the Commission were selected and appointed precisely because of their experience in mediation both in practice and at academic level. Consequently, all the necessary competences are available in the Commission. Education is indeed a competence of the Länder, but the Commission's training rules are not educational material within the meaning of Article 127 of the Constitution. The Commission has also responded to the problem, as the Rules of Procedure, Article 15, provide that derogations may be made from, inter alia, the assessment requirement, where there are other legal and/or regulatory provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. You refer to the quality aspect as an argument for changing the training rules. That's why there are some questions. After all, in 2019, the argument for improving the quality of the training institutions also called for a change in the training programmes, after which they worked very hard to comply with the rules, while now, just two years later, they are again being asked for a change, once again to improve the quality. You argue that this is an independent administration and that complaints can be addressed to the federal Ombudsman. That is indeed the intention. You also say that staff from the FPS Justice Department is made available to the secretariat, but the way in which they work is often very bureaucratic. If the training institutions want their programmes to be recognized, this is a very cumbersome procedure and I think that the principles of administrative simplification, which you yourself are very much in favour of, can be more applied. I think mediation is very important. This is a file I'll follow up on. I hope that the training institutions will soon be made clear whether their training programmes will be recognised this year and that the students who start training as mediators will also be given that assurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u64	I refer to my speech, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u65	Colleague, it is really important to listen carefully to the terrain. I am not only doing this because of the mercurials, because I am also in contact with the College of Attorneys General. I myself was present at the formal opening of the judicial year in the Court of Cassation and my associates went to all the resorts to attend the opening speeches. I have no problem with criticism as long as people are critical of themselves. That is also the approach of consultation with the College: exploring where justice can do differently and better. I even agree with the concerns expressed by the Attorney General on a number of points. When Attorney General de la Sema talked about years of savings and under-financing of the justice system, he was right. Fortunately, this government has come to an end and we have agreed on a substantial strengthening of justice. The Mercurial of Attorney General Delmulle also dealt with the years of underinvestment in people and resources for dealing with financial and fiscal crime. That criticism is, of course, justified. Without people and resources, this kind of crime cannot be dealt with. With this government, we want to put an end to the savings in justice. We are going to invest heavily in the recruitment of six tax substitutes, six public prosecutors, six tax judges, twelve clerks and six assistants at the courts of first instance. As you know, the federal police are funded from the Home Office. We'd like to bet on recruiting specialized detectives. With regard to your question on the Mercurial of Attorney General Vandenbruwaene, we are currently considering with the Public Prosecutor's Office and our administration whether and how we can repair or improve this legislation. If necessary, a draft law will be submitted to the Council of Ministers. You know that there is a lot of legislative work to be done. As far as the new Code of Criminal Procedure is concerned, you asked for a state of affairs. There have already been several discussions within the government in the presence of the Association of Research Judges and the Commission from experts to reform of criminal procedure law. The new proposal starts from a unified preliminary investigation with a judge of the investigation instead of the classic two-track investigation, namely the investigation conducted by the prosecutor and the judicial investigation led by a investigating judge. In consultation with all parties, it was decided to retain the figure of the investigating judge. The investigators cited a number of concrete constructive proposals that could improve the Code of Criminal Procedure. For example, it is a question of restricting the possibility of an unlimited filing of a bourgeois-party complaint, so that abuse of this procedure will no longer be possible. The experts are also prepared to rework certain parts of a new proposal so that they can be incorporated into the current Code of Criminal Procedure. First and foremost, we are addressing the chapter on statute of limitations, after which the evidence in criminal matters and the part on extraterritorial crimes will be reworked. We are also looking at ways of improving the efficiency of the administration of justice. Finally, a conference on the Court of Assists will also be organised in the autumn to which experts and Members of Parliament will be invited. On the basis of specific questions, we will look at the jurisdiction and working methods of the Court of Assistes. As regards your fourth question, as I said to your first question, has the Justice Department criticized... have you also asked a question about financial crime, along with your colleagues? I will go into more detail at that point, because that is a comprehensive answer. For your final question, I refer to the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u66	Minister, I am also going to listen regularly to mercurials, but this year I noticed that in different jurisdictions the different prosecutors are very hard, not only to you, but also to Minister Verlinden. She is, after all, a top lawyer, she even blames the following: "This is in practice nonsense and bears witness to an in-depth ignorance of criminal proceedings." Those were the words of Attorney General de la Serna van Bergen and they can count. The Attorney General is allowed to criticise, because after all, they are on the ground. As a minister, you can't know everything. A number of initiatives can therefore be taken from the Mercurials, some of which you have already announced. Do I understand from your reply that the reform of the Code of Criminal Procedure will come to Parliament split up and not as a whole, because then there will be certain risks in terms of unity? I'd like to warn you about that. I do not agree with your answer to my last question, namely that I must put my question to Minister Verlinden. You can still get numbers from the Justice Department. I can add that this may not be appropriate in the context of an interplay, but in the context of a written question, I believe that an answer can be given from the Justice Department. Minister Verlinden can answer the question of how many cases of violence against the police were registered; I have to ask her that question. The question about complaints within the Justice Department regarding police violence, I think it is up to you. I will put a written question to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u67	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Marijke Dillen and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - considering that at the opening of the judicial year, the top Magistrate was particularly critical of politics; - considering that not only the Minister for the Interior, Mr Verdeinden, was accused of in-depth ignorance of criminal proceedings, but also the Minister for Justice's policy was seriously under attack; - whereas, inter alia, the decades of financial savings in general and the particularly serious shortage of resources for dealing with financial and fiscal fraud and the lack of specialist investigators have been particularly marked; - whereas the lack of legislation, such as the bottlenecks, gaps and uncertainties in the new law on the regrets, was also raised by the Magistrate, insisting that this should be resolved as a matter of urgency; asks the government - to provide a concrete overview of all the urgent needs within Justice and to increase investment in Justice and to provide a clear concrete overview of the investments that will be effective in 2022, 2023 and 2024, and to provide project-by-project detailed estimates of the investment cost; - take the necessary legislative initiatives to eliminate the bottlenecks, gaps and uncertainties in the law on the regrets in the event of urgency and to adapt, complete and clarify this law; - make a special effort to eliminate the almost half-life of the staff of the section specialising in dealing with financial and fiscal fraud as soon as possible." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu l.o.interpellation de Mme Marijke Dillen and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, - Whereas the High Court expressed itself in terms which were particularly critical of the political world at the opening of the judicial year; - considering the total lack of awareness of the criminal procedure against the Minister of the Interior, Mrs Verlinden, and the acerbic criticism of the policy pursued by the Minister of Justice; - Whereas the financial savings measures taken over decades, in general, as well as the particularly serious lack of resources to combat financial and tax fraud and the lack of specialized investigators, in particular, have been strongly criticized; Whereas loopholes in the legislation, such as the problems, gaps and inaccuracy of the new law on repentance, have been raised by the judiciary and the judiciary has insisted that these problems be resolved as a matter of urgency; asks the government - to draw up, as a matter of urgency, a concrete inventory of all the urgent needs of the justice system and, as a follow-up to this exercise, to increase investments in the justice system and to give a clear and concrete overview of the investments that will actually be made in 2022, 2023 and 2024 by giving a detailed estimate of the investment cost per project; - take the necessary legislative initiatives to ensure that loopholes in legislation, such as the problems, gaps and inaccuracy of the new law on repentances, are urgently corrected and that the law is adapted, supplemented and clarified; - to make a special effort to ensure that the number of staff assigned to the Section for the fight against financial and tax fraud returns as quickly as possible to the level it had before these staff were almost halved." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. Debates of the European Parliament 55020344C and 55020405C and interpellation No. Question No 55000170 by Mrs Dillen 55020869C by Mrs Gabriels were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u68	Mr Minister, the impunity enjoyed by financial criminals has just risen to a higher level with the statement by the General Prosecutor's Office in Brussels that he would not open certain investigations for lack of sufficient resources. For years and years, industry professionals have drawn the attention of successive governments to the acute shortage of financial investigators and magistrates. In fact, no matter what ministers are in place, the situation is getting worse: while the financial section in Brussels had 131 investigators at the beginning of 2000, the different departments had more than 103 in 2014, and we are now 87 investigators. This situation obliges the prosecution and the judicial police to sort out. It is a real liquidation of the specialized services against big tax and social fraud, when it is known that this fight is profitable. As a reminder, the annual dry loss for the State is estimated at EUR 30 billion. Minister, do you confirm the figures on the decrease in the number of investigators and specialized magistrates? Do you assume this situation of impunity and if not, what do you intend to put in place to combat it? How do you explain that cases neglected because of the backlog are cases of fraud, while at the same time you are pursuing a policy of more enforcement of short prison sentences?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u69	Mr Minister, the problem has already been outlined by my colleague. The Mercurials this year are quite interesting. That of the Brussels Court of Appeal and the delay in financial and economic affairs that was raised in it has attracted everyone's attention. It's no secret when I say it's taken on mythical proportions in the meantime. When the Attorney General informed us that it had been decided to have the specialist investigators examine fewer cases, I think that many of us had to blink and swallow for a while. I can understand it from his point of view if there are too few staff, but in terms of signal it is a difficult story. For example, it seems that tax fraud is no longer being tackled, and that is a message that the government must be able to avoid. Justice is and remains one of the most important tasks of the government, and the prosecution of fraud is, of course, one of them. An old one is that almost half of the 638 open vacancies in the federal judicial police are not filled. There is a part of the problem, but the problem does not end there, because, as has just been mentioned, more than 15,000 cases are still waiting for the Brussels appeal court to deal with them. The waiting times are already up to 2030. That just doesn't cheer people up. You have just lifted a hint of the veil, but I would like to hear your response to the intention to investigate and prosecute less financial and economic crime as a solution to that legal delay. You mentioned a number of initiatives, but I do not know whether the initiatives you have taken will be sufficient. I would like to hear the concrete timing of the plans to meet them. We're gonna have to find a way. Perhaps you could shed some light on how we can increase interest in the open vacancies so that more people come to it, because without staff we will not solve the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u70	Madam President, I've been connected since the start, but my camera doesn't work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u71	You can ask your question without a camera, but we can't hear you very well either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u72	Madam President, given the technical difficulties, I refer to the written version of my question, as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u73	Mr Minister, the Brussels Prosecutor-General, Mr Delmulle, said in his speech at the formal hearing of the Brussels Court of Appeal that he would no longer conduct all the criminal investigations that should be entrusted to him in respect of financial crime cases. The reason given by this high magistrate would be the enormous backlog of cases facing the Brussels Court of Appeal, particularly in this type of case, as well as the insufficient number of specialized investigators in the Federal Judicial Police, particularly as a result of the previous government's decisions. We are faced with very worrying statements: the message sent to citizens cannot be that of impunity for financial crime and tax fraud. Such statements are, moreover, contrary to what is provided for in the government agreement, which is clear. I quote: "The capacity of the judiciary and the police to deal with major fraud cases will be strengthened" and "The judicial order and the judicial police will be strengthened with a view to detecting and prosecuting financial crimes". Minister, what steps have you taken in this regard since you took office? When do you intend to implement a plan to combat financial crime in coordination with the Finance and Interior Ministers? Finally, what do you think of Mr Delmulle's particularly worrying statements?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u74	Colleagues, Attorney General Delmulle raised two problems in his Mercuriale on 1 September. Firstly, at police level, he says that the complex and difficult economic financial and fiscal investigations are conducted by the fourth and fifth research department of the FGP Brussels and that the number of specialist investigators in this department was 103 on 1 January 2014 and today only 87. Maybe even remind you that on 1 January 2002 there were 131 detectives, so the number of detectives was reduced considerably. For those who can count, we are talking about 44 less effectives at that service. A second problem he raised is the problem of magistracy, which is the delay in the court of appeal in Brussels, which has assumed very serious proportions over the last few decades. He also says that there is a shortage in the number of specialized judges in the field of ecofin crime. Those findings run counter to the policy we are trying to achieve, namely to actually tackle serious economic and financial crime and, in a wider context, to detect, according to us, the money principle. The fact is that in this area, we are generally faced with very complex investigations, particularly in terms of the burden of proof, often with ramifications in other countries where the money is parked, but also with the procedure. It is no secret to anyone that the proceedings are sometimes very or too long, especially because of the accused themselves. I say this not to make an excuse but to make it clear that the challenges in this area are not the least and the solutions are far from being at hand. As far as the problems of magistracy are concerned, we have started to do so and we have taken decisions with this government. Mr Delmulle also refers to his mercurial. He also referred literally to the reinforcements decided upon for Justice in Brussels and the resources released from this year, in particular six counsellors, one referendary, two clerks and three assistants. In addition, four counsellors, four clerks and four assistants will be appointed through the external budget to deal with the legal backlog. There will be one counsellor, eight clerks and three assistants for the mega-processes. There will also be additional people in the process of terrorist attacks, because, of course, we do not want this to be at the expense of the other procedures in Brussels, namely four counsellors, one referendary and two spokesmen. In total, it is a strengthening of the Brussels Court of Appeal of 15 councillors, 4 referenda, 2 spokespersons, 4 clerks and 10 level C assistants. You only have to hope that we will find enough candidates. As you know, in Brussels, this is far from being an easy task, but I am convinced that the branding campaign that I have mentioned in other answers that I have given today, and that you will see from November onwards, will have a positive effect. I could also appreciate the sense of self-reflection and self-criticism in his mercurial. At the same time, however, I consider it essential that all actors, directly and indirectly involved in the administration of justice by the Brussels Court of Appeal, such as the seat, the public prosecutor's office, the legal profession, the FPS Justice (in terms of infrastructure), the prison system and the police (in terms of transfer of detainees) should actively consider how they can contribute even more to a more efficient and shorter judicial process for the court of appeal. This does not require revolutionary intervention, but it can be a whole step in the right direction, for example, that the calendar and the deadlines agreed for the exchange of conclusions and arguments are also effectively respected. I have already instructed the court magistrates of the District Attorney General to systematically oppose any request for undue delay and for this opposition to be put on the record. The length and extent of the hearing inquiry, the scope of the judgments, the number of cases dealt with per session and the duration of the hearing are other examples where progress may still be made, without prejudice to the independence and quality of the case-law." We do not often hear such a sense of self-criticism in public. In addition, we are investing, for the whole country, in additional staff in this area, specifically for financial crime. Both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the courts provide specialised magistrates and specialised support for dealing with financial and tax fraud. EUR 1.7 million is invested in 30 additional people for this and we also offer them tailor-made training. The extra commitment to the criminal investigation will lead to the search for the possessions of convicted persons in order to enforce the fines and confiscations. The 2014 law will also be applied effectively in this way. For this we allocate 1.45 million euros for 24 additional employees. That's the third investment. In total, we invest in 54 additional employees to tackle financial and tax fraud, in addition to the efforts we make for the Brussels appeal court. At the police level, we will pay great attention to this by monitoring the entry of new files in the light of uniform and transparent criteria, which, in fact, is already being done for criminal phenomena according to the principle of research management. A second problem arises at the FGP in Brussels. I quoted the figures. In 2002, there were 131 detectives. Today there are 87. That's a huge reduction. There too, we must make efforts. In order to cope with the deteriorating staff effectiveness within the police, and the FGP in Brussels in particular, 600 vacancies have been opened up since the end of last year, including for the specialised profiles in Ecofin and the "scale picking domains." Unfortunately, more than half of the vacancies remained unresponsive. So it's not a money issue, we just don't find the people. That's downright worrying. The causes are diverse. The state general of the police was launched by my colleague from the Interior, but will not provide a solution in the short term. That is why I would like to look with my colleagues at what we can do in addition, even in the short term. As I told you, it's not a problem of means. There are sufficient resources to hire staff, including the Brussels Judicial Police. The problem is that for half of the vacancies, also for Ecofin, there are no candidates. People don't show up. I have therefore asked my colleague from the Interior, who is responsible for the federal police, particularly for budgets, to see how we can change the situation in the short term so that the number of specialists can increase after the decline in recent years. I think that if, at the same time, the judicial police in Brussels are strengthened and what has been decided at the level of justice is carried out, we can change the situation. With regard to the backlog in Brussels that we have known for decades, is it unthinkable to change the situation? I don't think so. The Antwerp Court of Appeal faced the same situation twenty years ago. Today, there is no problem. In Brussels, the Supreme Council of Justice was asked to conduct an audit. He's doing it very seriously. I have heard the steps that have been taken. I hope that, by the end of this year, we will already have some elements that can shed light on this situation. I referred to what Mr Delmulle said. I quoted it in Dutch. I also believe that a different way of working could also help to bridge the backlog in Brussels. For the rest, I can only confirm the government agreement. We take the fight against financial and tax fraud very seriously. You can ask my colleague in charge of finance about the action plan against organised fraud. Here too, a number of very concrete measures will be taken. I personally believe that this is an important struggle, and I will invest in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u75	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear that commitments are being made. That's a good thing. Will this be sufficient in relation to the legal framework that is being imposed? You say the positions are vacant and there are no candidates. Perhaps there is a need for a much more energetic policy focused on this, as you have done for short sentences. In this case, you came with a project in an affirmative way. It would be wise to go the same way about financial crime. This is a very serious societal problem as well as from the point of view of public confidence, which feels that there is – and this is reality – class justice. Indeed, the richest and most fortunate are not penalized in the same way as others. We were already aware of the wider criminal transactions that supported this impression, which can only be reinforced by these statements. It is therefore a priority, if we want to establish a truly just justice that does not apply at two speeds according to our social rank. In this regard, I am still waiting for the evaluation of the criminal transaction – which is a decisive testimony of class justice. Beyond the justice aspect, social perception and financial considerations must be taken into account, given all the money lost when these criminals are not prosecuted. It is billions of euros that are tax and social fraud and whose recovery would make our justice much more effective. In short, this problem must become a priority, not an element among others. A goal must therefore be set and adhered to as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u76	Minister, thank you for your answers that indicate your intentions. I will also ask the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Interior about the same subject. First of all, it is fair and good to fight financial crime and tax fraud. Moreover, in this period of public finance crisis, it seems to me that the involvement of these criminals and those great fraudsters is a significant source of funding. For this reason, investments in the departments concerned should never be seen as a lost-fund expenditure. This is indeed a real investment. At the end of the chain, there is a return in social and ethical value added for society as a whole, but also in terms of financial resources for the State. As you also know, crime today is taking on new forms, especially with cybercrime. Offenders are increasingly sharpened. They have more and more resources and I know that it costs us a lot of investment, but these are investments that are really very useful. That is why I really invite you, why not with your other colleagues, to present us with an overall plan to combat organised financial crime, white-collar crime. I believe that this would be a good message from the government that would mobilize all the forces of the state against those people who have no scruples and who flout our most fundamental principles and values.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u77	Minister, I thank you for your answer, although I have a pretty big contrast between the concern that you and your confidence in the future have been anxious to share with you. In the same way, I feel a fairly great hiatus between the will shown in your government's agreement to combat economic and financial crime and the facts, namely that tomorrow certain complaints would no longer be dealt with because of a lack of human resources which is clearly the evil of our justice and our police and without knowing on the basis of which precise criteria certain files would be considered priority or not. That was the subject of one of my questions. It is all the more incomprehensible that this type of crime exploded with the health crisis, but also because the report of the Committee of Inquiry on major tax fraud cases listed a whole series of measures that had to be implemented for some time. I am thinking in particular of the increase in the human and financial resources allocated to the Central Office for Combating Economic and Financial Crime. I also did not hear you on this point. On the other hand, I have heard your efforts in terms of budget and training. However, it must be noted that these efforts are still insufficient today, otherwise the Attorney General would not have made the statements he made. These efforts are still insufficient to address, in particular, a backlog of cases that has been ravaging the Brussels district for decades, as you have rightly said. I invite you, if I may, to continue these efforts, but also to go back to the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry I mentioned earlier. I think the challenge, as my colleagues have pointed out, is to respond to a sense of impunity among fraudsters and disgust among citizens in general. In addition, a source of funding for the State is now being withheld, while more than ever, revenue is needed to revive all sectors that have suffered as a result of the crisis and to assist in the reconstruction of the affected areas as a result of the floods. The Secretary of State for the Budget recalled the need for an additional budget effort of EUR 3 billion. It is therefore clear to what extent sources of funding are indispensable. In this case, it is an investment to find them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic577x.u78	Thank you for your reply, Minister. If the FGP no longer does those investigations, local police will be able to catch up on some of them, as it is doing today. However, you know as well as I do that this capacity is not infinite either. The resources are not infinite either. I am very concerned about how these financial and economic matters are handled. I would very much like to hear you say that you have repeatedly said that job vacancies are being written out and that a budget is being provided for, but it is not because the resources and vacancies are there that they are being filled out and that the staff are there. So it turns out. There are 638 open vacancies at the FGP and there is almost no response to them. You referred to the States-General that Mrs Verlinden is planning. If I am not mistaken, it wants to land in 2023. Then it'll be very late. We're autumn 2021. You said that there is no solution in the short term, but then we will be a long way ahead and then you will have to start. In all honesty, that shows once again that funding alone is not enough. Yesterday at De Aangeling there was something else that triggered me, Minister. The question was put to you and you said there that justice will also have to save. You didn't say where. I therefore hope that these savings will not be made for the resources you have now provided. The challenge at that point is big enough. I have repeatedly asked questions about the second-line assistance and the budgets for it, but not just for that. Yesterday, you had to admit that there will also have to be savings in the area of justice. Allow me to start to worry even more about this in this context.
