ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, my question was actually addressed to your fellow Secretary of State, Mrs De Bleeker, responsible for Consumer Protection. However, she has been referred to you. Three years after the introduction of the GDPR Directive, a study in the Netherlands shows that many Dutch websites still do not comply with the privacy rules in force. A very extensive sample shows that more than half of the visited sites post tracking cookies and do not ask permission or enforce consent. Firstly, what is the current situation in Belgium? Has such an investigation been carried out in Belgium? If yes, what were the results? If that investigation has not yet been carried out, will you instruct it to do so? Secondly, how do you assess the general ease of use of consumers to disable certain cookies on Belgian websites, such as advertising cookies? Thirdly, to what extent is the so-called cookie hours still used on Belgian websites? Because of these walls, the consumer has the only choice either to accept the cookies or not to be able to see the content of the website. To what extent is this still being done in Belgium? Finally, how many complaints have already been received about the cookie policy on Belgian websites?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u2	Mrs Van Bossuyt, first of all I would like to emphasise the importance and complexity of the issue of cookies, which I follow closely. Recently I took note of a study on the use of cookies carried out by the Austrian NGO My Privacy is None of Your Business. She currently urges 560 websites to comply with the GDPR. In Belgium it would be about 20 sites. The regulation of cookies is complex, because in addition to the GDPR, the Directive on privacy and electronic communications also applies. The latter will soon be replaced by a new regulation, which is currently under negotiation at European level. The provisions on cookies were the subject of a lot of discussions. The complexity certainly does not facilitate the application of the rights relating to the use of cookies. For me, consent is an essential element in the transparency process, which must surround digitalisation. Users' informed and informed consent should be a priority. The issue is also one of the priorities of the Data Protection Authority in its 2020-2025 strategic plan. As a reminder, one of its main tasks is to carry out awareness-raising and information campaigns on all kinds of issues relating to the protection of personal data. For example, it has taken a series of initiatives to inform companies and individuals about the laws on cookies, always pointing out that the Internet user must know which companies use cookies on the website and that consent is valid only if the Internet user is free to choose and therefore does not suffer a disadvantage if he refuses. Furthermore, the GBA is currently actively contributing to the work of the European Data Protection Committee, which will shortly adapt the consent guidelines to the General Data Protection Regulation. Such adaptation should clarify at European level whether scrolling down or swiping on a website are valid ways to obtain consent for the processing of personal data through cookies. As regards complaints, the GBA handles dozens of requests for information and individual complaints each year and conducts investigations where necessary. Finally, I would like to remind you that the GDPR has given the supervisory authorities very extensive inspection and monitoring powers. In extreme cases, administrative fines may amount to EUR 20 million or 4% of worldwide turnover. In 2019, the GBA Dispute Chamber imposed a fine on a data controller for lack of sufficient information on its cookie policy and for the use of pre-filled checkboxes based on the user's consent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, your answer was very general and very little focused on the situation in Belgium, and my question was mainly about that. You referred at the beginning to a study from Austria, which you read with great attention. You spoke about some 20 Belgian websites in that context. Does that appear from the Austrian study or do you say that on the basis of a study to which you yourself have ordered in your position? It is very important to know a state of affairs in Belgium and to know where the problems are, all the more so because a new privacy regulation is now being discussed at European level. Furthermore, you state that the granting of permission for cookies is an essential element for you, but, frankly, every website that is opened does show something about cookies and one clicks on them without knowing what they are consenting for. A great deal of information is still needed to make the public aware of this. Finally, you say that Internet users should not be disadvantaged if they refuse to accept cookies. One of my questions was, for example, whether cookies walls are still being used in Belgium, but I also did not receive an answer. I would therefore like to know what the concrete situation in Belgium is. I'm sure you'll be able to deliver that information afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u4	Madam President, Secretary of State, data about more than 500 million Facebook users, from a leak in 2019, was posted on a hacker forum a few months ago. These records concerning these accounts have been disclosed free of charge and reflect Facebook's absolute negligence. The stolen data relate to the telephone numbers of users, their Facebook ID, full name, address, date of birth and e-mail addresses. This leak is an open door for criminals in possession of this data to be able to swindle people by phone or email by demanding their bank data or other sensitive information. Mr Secretary of State, how many accounts in Belgium are affected by this data leak? To your knowledge, how many data subjects have lodged a complaint with the Data Protection Authority? Are you aware of any complaints in court?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u5	Madam President, Secretary of State, the reason for this question was the data breach at Facebook, a leak that attracted a great deal of media attention. People who are very useful in such cases have even started creating online tools that allow a user to check if his information had been leaked. However, I fear that this is not the only data breach that has been there and there will undoubtedly be more. When it comes to a less media-genic data breach, there will probably be no online tools. It is important to look at the websites themselves. Do these websites have a notification? Should they somehow let their users know that there is a problem and that certain data has been extracted from them? Are there any figures on that? How can we better inform users of websites about such problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u6	Madam President, Mrs Thibaut, Mr Verduyckt, on the basis of the most recent information available to the Data Protection Authority in cooperation with the Irish Data Protection Commission, 3,183,540 Belgian users would be affected by the leak of data from Facebook. This estimate is based on the country code of the mobile phone number associated with the user's account. The Data Protection Authority also received approximately 1,100 complaints during the period from 5 to 30 April 2021. On the other hand, I do not have any information on the introduction of legal proceedings following this incident. However, this case is currently under in-depth investigation into the cause of this data leak by the Irish Data Protection Commission. Be sure I'm careful about his evolution. More generally, the GDPR establishes a procedure for informing the users concerned in the case of a data breach. Indeed, any organisation processing personal data is obliged to notify the GBA of data protection breaches, including data leaks. These obligations are intended to prevent an infringement from harming both organisations and data subjects. The obligation to notify the GBA must be complied with within a maximum of 72 hours if the infringement presents a risk to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects. In addition, there is an additional obligation to notify the infringement to the data subjects as soon as possible if the infringement presents a high risk to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects. In 2020, the GBA received 1,097 notifications of data leaks. The number of notifications increases every year. The complainants are kept informed by the GBA about the handling of their complaint. Finally, I would like to remind you that the GDPR is directly applicable, that the rules are clear and that the role of the GBA is inter alia to check that these rules are applied correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. In terms of the number of complaints compared to the number of Belgians, it could be said that 1,100 complaints to ODA are both a lot and a little. They have the merit of being there and that means that our systems are there and they work. However, more publicity is needed. Mr. Van Quickenborne had prompted citizens to complain to ODA and the message went well. This is a reflex that citizens must have.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, 100,000 is, of course, huge. The figures of the number of complaints received annually by the GBA have turned the GBA somewhat upside down, as far as this was not the case. There were 1,097 reports of data leaks, and that number is growing. That indicates there's a problem there. We all know today that data is important, not only because of their privacy-sensitive nature, but also because it has an economic value. There really is a problem when the data we leave on different websites regularly gets into the wrong hands. So we need to focus even more on data protection. You say that there is a reporting obligation, on the one hand to the GBA and on the other hand to those involved if there is a high risk. The question then is what is a high risk. That's a bit of a tricky question. I checked myself once and my data was leaked as well. Of course I haven't heard from Facebook and for many users this doesn't apply. They may have estimated that there was no high risk, but there really is a problem there. We really need to work on that. The solutions are probably not obvious, but digital insecurity is growing every year and needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, the government has an immense source of information. The use of ethical hackers for a security check of citizens' privacy data held by the government could be a way to check whether the data is properly protected. What we have seen in recent weeks shows that this protection is absolutely necessary. This could be applied to the databases of public authorities and public enterprises. The databases of the most critical services, such as social security databases, police and security services, intelligence services, SNCB and Sciensano, have valuable information about many citizens of our country. Ethical hackers look up the vulnerabilities in the security of soft and hardware. The ethical hacker has permission for this and will not further disseminate the information obtained. The government could close a leak as quickly as possible, but also preventatively check where improvement is possible. In the Netherlands ethical hackers are already deployed by different government departments, such as the Implementation Education Service. However, Belgium is lagging behind other countries. The Cybersecurity Centre has drawn up a standard declaration that companies and institutions can use to allow ethical hacking, yet ethical hacking is still prohibited under Article 550a (1) of the Criminal Code. I have already questioned the Minister of Justice about this. Firstly, will you check the security of public and private databases by using ethical hackers? If so, how will you do this and what bodies do you work with? If not, why not? Secondly, do you think that a reform of Article 550a of the Criminal Code is useful to provide more transparency for ethical hackers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u10	Madam President, Mr Van Hecke, the security of government databases and the security of data exchange between administrations is a very high priority for all services concerned. Today, proactive security is initiated in the multiple processes of security of government data. An essential part of the government's security strategy is then proactive testing of the security measures introduced and challenging external parties to detect and correct security weaknesses in our infrastructure and procedures. In the context of this strategy, the FOD BOSA, DG Digital Transformation, has examined on several occasions the use of ethical hackers. One of the biggest stumbling blocks is always liability in the event of problems during penetration testing by an ethical hacker whose identity is not easily verified, whether it is damage caused during the test, for example in terms of availability or data integrity, or possible abuse that is subsequently established on the basis of the knowledge acquired on the weaknesses in the infrastructures or procedures tested. In order to carry out effective and safe penetration tests, the FOD BOSA has called on the security experts of a professional consultancy in the framework of a public contract for quality assurance support. Twenty-eight departments of the federal government have called on this central purchasing service to test their IT services and infrastructures. A new public contract is under preparation in which this aspect will be given even more attention. Today, federal agencies are showing a clear interest in testing the resistance of their IT infrastructure to cyber attacks. However, as you will have understood, these same federal services are cautious about using ethical hacker platforms, although they do not completely exclude them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, it is a good thing that a certain awareness has indeed grown among the federal administrations, that they are well aware that they are vulnerable and have information that can be useful and very valuable to hackers and that they are thinking about how to secure that information. There are two ways to do that. Of course, the FPS are technically assisted by specialists to set up and secure their computer systems and databases. It seems logical to me, on the one hand, that we should also ask them to do additional checks, but, on the other hand, you are very careful when it comes to using ethical hackers. Our country has a good reputation in that respect. Many young people follow such training and want to look for data leaks with very good intentions to help the government or a company. I would therefore recommend that one should not rule out the other. We need to ensure that our computer systems are safe and that the firms we work with pay extra attention to this, but we also need to let go of an ethical hacker once in a while, provided that good agreements are made, to check that there are no data leaks. That could be an incentive. Other countries do, too. I would therefore ask you, Mr Secretary of State, to make further progress and to discuss this with the services. Perhaps we should do this with a test period in certain departments and for a certain period of time to look at the experience and see if there are any legal and/or other problems. My call would therefore be to test it during a test period.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u12	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Francken's 55016403C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u13	Mr. Secretary of State, on 17 April, a message appeared in De Morgen entitled "Huawei was able to eavesdrop on Dutch KPN customers." Huawei would be able to listen to unauthorized, uncontrolled and unlimited telephone calls. Of course, that raises a lot of questions about the situation in our country, because what can be done in the Netherlands seems possible in this country too. This could, of course, have a huge impact on privacy and even on our national security. So I have a few questions. Are you aware of these practices of Huawei in the Netherlands? Can Huawei also apply such practices in this country, or has it already done so? What steps have you taken or will you take to prevent Huawei from committing such infringements in our country? Do you believe that Huawei's practices represent a threat to our national security?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u14	Members of Parliament, your question relates mainly to the question of national security, to which some of my colleagues, in particular the Ministers for Justice and Defence, can give a more detailed answer. The GBA informed me that it is not aware of such incidents in Belgium. This does not alter the fact that even in this area there may be actual infringements of data protection rules, such as the re-use of personal data for purposes other than those for which they were originally intended. To help Belgian companies tackle cyber attacks and make them aware of these kinds of risks, I started the cyberscan together with the Minister responsible for SMEs and the self-employed, Mr Clarinval. This is an instrument that is made available to companies and enables them to measure their ability to resist the risks of cyber attacks. This project is clearly in line with the cyber plan aimed at combating cyber attacks, the first version of which needs to be seen at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, the fact that this has not yet happened in Belgium does not mean that this cannot happen in the future. In addition to the concerns surrounding the Chinese Huawei, there was recently the DDoS attack and the hacking of Home Affairs, all presumably from China. It is clear that there is a genuine cyber attack on the West, including Belgium, in which China seems to come up again and again as an involved party. When a company like Huawei can eavesdrop on conversations, that is obviously a serious threat, not only to privacy, but also to state security. It is therefore important that we do everything we can to stop these attacks. Isn't it time we addressed the Chinese government to the ever-increasing cyber attacks that appear to be coming from China?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, on Thursday 29 April there was a fuss in the Netherlands about the so-called CoronaMelderapp, which, contrary to what was initially held out and to what was claimed at high and low levels, does not appear to be privacy proof. A data breach at Google ensures that, according to the Dutch government, user data can be read by unauthorized parties." Meanwhile, Google claims to have closed the leak and has launched a new update of the Android operating system. The Dutch government immediately shut down the data exchange via the CoronaMelder app for 48 hours to check whether the data breach is indeed gone and to give as many users as possible the chance to install the latest update. In this country we use the same system with the Coronalert app and so the problem here is equally urgent, although fortunately the coronapandemic seems to be under control. However, the situation is particularly serious in terms of privacy. Since when did you become aware of the data breach? Which way were you informed or not informed? What have you and/or any other member or members of the federal government already done in the context of the data breach? On what date? What is the result of this already? What results can be expected? Has the data breach been reported to the GBA? If so, when and by whom? What has the Data Protection Authority already done in the context of the data breach? On what date? What is the result of that? What results can be expected? Can you tell me when the data breach originated and when Google itself was aware of the data breach? Do you think that the data exchange of the app, as in the Netherlands, should or should have been shut down, until sufficient evidence has been provided that the data breach is closed? I wrote the question two hours after I heard the news from the Dutch media. What will you do to ensure that as many affected citizens as possible can install the necessary operating system update as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u17	Such privileged applications may read the stored data on Android devices. That vulnerability of the system, which is Google's responsibility, was reported to Google by researchers on 19 February 2021 and made public on 27 April 2021. As soon as Sciensano was aware of the problem, the setting as responsible for the processing of Coronalert contacted Google to determine the impact of the problem on the protection of user data and what measures Google has taken. In addition, it informed the Data Protection Authority of a potential vulnerability on 27 April 2021. Sciensano and the GBA have requested additional information in order to better identify the cause of the vulnerability. On the basis of the information obtained, there was no evidence that those uses had actually collected the sensitive information. Indeed, there was no evidence that the vulnerability had led to a data breach within the meaning of the GDPR. To this end, there would be no indication so far of an actual infringement of the protection of personal data through the Coronalert application. Therefore, the GBA has not received an official notification from a data breach. To improve application security, Google updated the exposure notification system on 5 May 2021. Since the adoption of Coronalert on the basis of the data protection impact assessment, the GBA has proactively monitored the ongoing development and security of Coronalert. For example, on 1 December 2020 and 1 March 2021, the GBA requested an update of the data protection impact assessment with a new analysis of the risks related to Coronalert. In the context of that recurrent and proactive monitoring, the GBA shall continue to ensure that the update of the exposure notification system is robust. The incident and the measures taken to prevent a breach of the data protection rules were mentioned on the Coronalert website on 27 April.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u18	Thank you for your answer and I will read it very carefully. What amazes me is that I know that little publicity has been made for that corona update that had to happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u19	Mr. De Smet's not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u20	Madam President, Secretary of State, the Committee on Information Security (CSI) has played a major role in the processing of personal data relating to health and social security, especially since the beginning of the health crisis. It is important that it works properly and, above all, properly. However, whereas it is normally composed of 16 members (8 staff and 8 alternates, with perfect linguistic parity), a press article of 5 May reveals that the Committee only operates with 5 active members in total, that they meet once a month to issue "deliberations", i.e. authorisations for the use of data following requests for access made by a wide range of public bodies (ONSS, INAMI, INASTI, Sciensano...) and institutions (research centres, universities...). It therefore has a very important power in the use of health data. It is also stated that some members do not even appear to be aware that they are part of the CSI and claim to have never received an invitation to participate. Since the beginning of the crisis, the government has often relied on the fact that citizens' data were being subjected to severe hardship and that they would be treated fairly, with verification by the CSI to reassure the public itself, and also Parliament. The CSI must regularly decide, give advice to the government that seems to solicit it regularly, or even make crucial decisions. That is, at least, what the ministers' statements show. It is therefore an organ that must function properly and in accordance with the law. Since its creation by the Act of 5 September 2018, Parliament has never made any appointment of members of the CSI. As a transitional measure, the term of office of the external members of the Sectoral Committee on Social Security and Health that existed before the ITUC is maintained until the date of appointment of the members of the Social Security and Health Chamber of the Information Security Committee. It must be noted that three years later, the CSI still operates in a transitional mode, with five members instead of 16, of which only one is Francophone, whereas normally parity must be respected. The law is therefore not enforced. Mr Secretary of State, are the decisions taken by the CSI still valid? How can we be assured of the proper control of the use of citizens' data when the Information Security Committee itself does not operate in compliance with the laws? How do you explain that the law of 5 September 2018 is still not implemented? When will the situation be regularized? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u21	Madam Member, it should first be made clear that the CSI is not a supervisory authority within the meaning of the GDPR and that the possible deliberations of the CSI cannot have an impact on the competences of ODA as defined by the GDPR and the Act of 3 December 2017. Thus, any interested party may lodge a complaint with ODA if he or she believes that his or her right to the protection of his or her private data has been violated. In terms of control, ODA as well as each DPO of public administrations can always take over the decisions of the CSI. With regard to its right of reference, ODA has not yet taken a decision under article 39, paragraph 9, paragraph 2, of the Act of 5 September 2018. However, in its Decision No. 34/2020, the DPA Dispute Resolution Chamber ruled on the role of the deliberations of the CSI in general and of two deliberations of the CSI in particular. With regard to the composition of the CSI, three calls for applications were launched without success. This procedure was also interrupted with the passage of the government into day-to-day affairs. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in July 2020, the Chair of ODA, on behalf of the Executive Committee, sent a note to the House of Representatives addressing a number of legal issues arising from the creation and operation of the ISC. ODA has not received a response to this memorandum to date. Moreover, in view of the current situation, it seems to me important to clarify the situation well. For the time being, our country has been the subject of two separate procedures under the European Commission: one concerning the CSI and the other concerning ODA. In the case of the ISC procedure, the Commission has decided to follow the usual process by initiating an informal discussion phase, which is therefore under way. However, for what I read in the press about the ODA procedure, the Commission would leave Belgium two months to get in order. However, I do not yet have the formal decision taken by the College of Commissioners meeting in this context today. I have therefore not yet been able to analyse this decision officially. As soon as I took office, I took stock of the complexity and urgency of this case, which is why I speeded up the assessment of privacy law and initiated the transparency exercise aimed at restoring confidence in citizens and businesses in the processing of data. In this context, and as I have already had the opportunity to say, it is up to everyone to take responsibility. Today, obviously, the European Commission has taken its own. For my part, as part of the transparency exercise, we are coming to the end of the evaluation of the privacy law, which I have accelerated and which must lead to a review of the legal framework that governs the application of the GDPR in our country. Of course, I will not fail to propose structural measures so that this situation will not happen again in the future. For the time being, what we need to do is the emergency situation which is at the heart of today's events and which, in my reading, requires a strong position of each and every one of you. It seems to me urgent to call on Parliament to take responsibility as well and to clarify a situation which I consider problematic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for your voluntarism in this matter and for the clarifications that are necessary in view of the delicateness of the decisions that are to be taken, while obviously respecting a series of discussions that are taking place behind closed doors. Here, of course, I focused on the CSI knowing that everything is in everything, as you just recalled. You must receive European deliberation today on the infringement for which Belgium is being called into question, in particular in terms of conflict of interest. I hope that, very quickly, you will make the necessary decisions. You seem to have decided to do it anyway. At the level of Parliament, we will continue to be particularly vigilant on these issues, which, I would remind you, have a particular sensitivity also in view of the exceptional period of pandemic that we are experiencing, but also in general. We really count on you for clarifications and, to use your words, transparency on these issues that concern all our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u23	Madam President, Minister, you are aware that for some time there has been a dramatic phenomenon, namely what I have called "forced suicide". It is usually for a young girl to go to an appointment, all that is most normal. But on the spot, she is not expected by a single man as planned but by several men. She is raped, with a supporting video, which will then be broadcast on social media until this unbearable harassment for the victim leads her to suicide. These facts are no longer isolated, the last, dramatic, date of May 15th in Ghent. Last week, in plenary, you had the opportunity to respond in part to a series of questions within a shorter period of time. Forced suicide is also referred to as an act resulting from harassment or domestic violence that has become unbearable to the victim, for which the only possible outcome is suicide. These are again mainly violence against women, physical violence, sexual violence, and online violence. It is well known that France, in particular, has legislated on the issue of forced suicides in marital matters. It distinguishes between marital harassment and other types of harassment. For marital harassment, if the suicide is caused by the harassment, the penalty is doubled. I have tabled a similar text in the House and I have no doubt that it will be part of the enormous work that you are doing. Minister, I would have liked to have, in a more targeted way, taken the measure of what cyber-harassment represents. Do you have figures for these different phenomena, which are multiple and varied? We see that the techniques are very different. Can you enlighten us on this? Beyond what you said at the sitting on consent, on sexual violence and on this bill, which I hope will soon arrive in Parliament following the advice of the Council of State that you seem to have received, I would have wished to know, in concrete terms, what mechanism you are putting in place against cyberharassment. The latter is a phenomenon that has grown to a terrible extent since the pandemic, even if it existed. We know that the preventive aspect of things is at the entity level. We know that a policy must be comprehensive and built around several axes. It is not a question of getting out of his hat a solution, but a whole range of measures that come in addition to each other. In your powers as Minister of Justice, what particular mechanism do you intend to put in place to address this phenomenon? I am also asking your colleague in charge of Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u24	Madam President, Minister, the same sense of shock described by Vanessa Matz has been living with me since I became aware of this tragic collective rape of a 14-year-old girl. The natural question of protection, aggravating circumstances and sentencing scales, if any, arises. This is one of my questions; you have certainly read it in the text I have transmitted to you. I am also very shocked by the fact that we are once again in a form of cyber-harassment: this horrific fact was also filmed and broadcasted on social networks, which led to the tragic end that was that of the girl. I refer to my questions and will be very happy to hear you on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u25	Mr Minister, my question was added to this topical debate. I have already questioned you in plenary about the facts in Ghent. I also referred to certain issues that were announced, but which are still not there. The reform of sexual criminal law would be there at Easter. We still haven't seen any of that. The minimum penalties set out here must also be increased. Those questions are also addressed today by the other questioners. There is also indignation on the part of the other parties who have been in power for so long, but who are permanently outraged that such matters occur. It seems to me to be the logic itself that, if nothing changes, these facts will continue to take place. I hope that this will finally change in the coming months. My question was specifically about the tool that Sensoa developed with a flag system about sexually transversal behavior. What exactly is sexually transversal behavior? This flag system already existed for children, but was now also developed for adults. This can also be used in the workplace. How does one react to touch? Is there a transversal behavior of a superior in a subordinate? This four-color system can be used for this purpose. Minister Beke had won for that system. What do you think of such a flag system? At what level is there a commitment in the Justice Department to sexually transversal behavior? Are you going to look at this and introduce it into training in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u26	Minister, last week everyone was shocked by the tragic events in Ghent. You rightly tweeted immediately that, following the rape of a 14-year-old girl, the Justice Department must and will ensure justice. Unfortunately, Minister, this sad incident is not an isolated one. Last week we could all read the open letter to you from an angry father who did the sad story of his 17-year-old daughter. She was also the victim of a gang rape two years ago at a party at friends' house. Even then, the perpetrators took photos, which they spread afterwards. That girl still needs psychological assistance, as you could read, while the unsubs, the victim's schoolmates, are known and still out there. Two years later, the criminal investigation is still ongoing and the prosecution still hasn't completed the file. The victim and her parents are not even kept informed of the progress of the case and when her lawyer informs at the courthouse of the state of affairs, there is no answer. That is unacceptable, because there is still no justice for that victim and her family. The fight against sexual violence must be an absolute priority of your policy in all areas for which you are competent and therefore responsible. The same goes for the D.A.'s office. I understand that you cannot, of course, go into individual dossiers, although you might be able to use your right of positive insertion, but that is another discussion. You can, however, give clear guidelines on the handling of dossiers and impose priorities. We fully agree that the treatment of rape and sexual assault files should be given an absolute priority. Are you prepared to consult with the College of Attorney General and order that priority be given to the rapid handling of all criminal records relating to rape and sexual assault?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u27	Madam President, my answer will be detailed, since a total of 20 questions have been put and I insist on answering all Members' questions as far as possible. The fight against sexual violence was explicitly included in the coalition agreement and in my Justice Policy Statement, and that is why it will also be included as an absolute priority in the National Action Plan on Gender-related Violence (NAP) 2021-2025 and also in the Integrated Security Framework Paper, both of which are in preparation. Mr Bury, you say nothing has changed. That's not correct. An important change was made with the creation of three care centres after sexual violence in Ghent, Brussels and Liège. The pilot phase is over and the government is committed to further structural embedding the care centres in the policies of Justice, Public Health, Police and Equal Opportunities and has made the necessary resources available. In 2021, three more centres will be added, in Antwerp, Charleroi and Leuven, and by 2023 each province will have a care centre. Then there will be a total of ten such care centres in our country. Those care centres offer a holistic approach to sexual violence, by providing immediate care and care to victims 24 hours in one place, by having them assisted by specially trained sex inspectors, by taking forensic samples from them, and by taking them further and by referring them. The aim is to reduce the threshold for victims to file complaints so that investigations can be conducted quickly and more efficiently. So I hope to increase the number of convictions. The first results of the care centres have been really positive. We fully support this holistic approach. After the denunciation, we need more prosecution. Quality and sufficient evidence is crucial. Here too, we have made progress. There too, something has certainly changed, Mrs Bury. The Antwerp Prosecutor's Office's Code 37 project succeeded in resolving twice as many cases of rape through a new investigation strategy. Twice more convictions for rape. In addition to the classic traces of sperm, traces of skin contact and saliva can help identify suspects. This approach will be extended across the country. An in-depth approach is developed in specific areas related to sexual crimes such as more effective DNA analysis, the development of the Viclas database, specialized police training, and more targeted measures for the collection and processing of data on sexual violence. Mrs Bury, you asked a question about the flag system. Through cooperation between the various departments and policy levels, Justice has had good contacts with Sensoa for years. Of course, we know the tool of the flag system for minors very well. Extending the tool to adults can certainly be a useful tool to help people make the right choices and achieve respectful, mutual sexual contacts. For Justice, it can be an important prevention tool. Sexual violence is a matter where there can often be a grey zone, which can turn into word-to-word situations. Since in dubio pro reo is still a very important principle of law, the judge can only exonerate the offender in such cases, often because concrete evidence is lacking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u28	Excuse me, Minister, but the interpreters do not understand you, and we sometimes find it difficult to understand you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u29	Let me turn on the Wi-Fi.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u30	With a headset, it would be even easier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u31	I'm going to my desk now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u32	Now, in principle, things should be getting better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u33	A tool that can be used preventively and can help people to avoid this kind of thing can therefore only be welcomed positively. With the new sexual criminal law, the updating of the relevant legal texts, I also hope to provide more legislative tools on consent margin and more legal certainty on this issue. Which brings me to the punishments. In the context of the new penal code in preparation, particular attention was paid to the theme of sexual offences. For example, it is foreseen that these crimes will be brought together in a chapter entitled 'Missing against sexual integrity, sexual self-determination and good morals' and that these facts will no longer be brought together under the heading 'crimes and wrongdoings against the order of the family and against public morality', which is more in keeping with the present tense spirit. Furthermore, the consent margin is clearly defined by law and the legal penalty measures are raised. The preliminary draft was adopted on 2 April 2021. I have received the opinion of the Council of State very recently. The texts will be amended on the basis of this opinion. I hope to be able to put the text into our committee by June 2021. As part of this reform, an increase in penalties is foreseen for the crime of rape with the aggravating circumstances associated with it. The penalties for aggravating circumstances for other non-consensual sexual acts are also increased. For all acts of a non-consensual sexual nature, in the draft text no penalty may be reduced in relation to the current Penal Code, even after correction. In that context, the draft text made all alternative penalties possible for sexual offences. Rape shall be punished by imprisonment from 10 to 15 years. Today, he is from 5 to 10 years old. Article 376 of the Criminal Code currently states that if rape or indecent assault has caused the death of the person on whom it was committed, the offender shall be punished by imprisonment for 20 to 30 years. The examination of the draft law amending the Criminal Code on sexual criminal law, in articles 417 to 423, penalizes acts of a non-consensual sexual nature committed with the help or in the presence of one or more persons by providing for an increase in the penalty. Rape is then punishable by a term of 15 to 20 years' imprisonment and not by a term of 10 to 15 years' imprisonment in the case of rape without aggravating circumstances. The draft law, in article 417, 13.2, provides that acts of a non-consensual sexual nature that led to the death without the perpetrator acting with the intention of giving it shall be punished by imprisonment from 20 to 30 years. The non-consensual dissemination of images and recordings of a sexual nature and the non-consensual, perfidious dissemination of images and recordings of a sexual nature are also proposed as criminal offences in the preliminary draft. The provisions of the recent law of 4 May 2020 are repeated. The preliminary draft also provides for a number of increased sentences for rape resulting in death as well as for gang rape. I would like to stress that the increase in sentences is only part of this reform of criminal law and of the policy on sexual violence. We also propose to make greater use of alternative sentences in the future, to place even more emphasis on the treatment of sex offenders and to look for ways to resolve problems related to the end of sentences. At the same time, we continue to invest in the holistic care of victims of sexual violence in the centres for the care of victims of sexual violence. We invest in the training of police officers and magistrates specialized in the field, and we continue to cooperate in a multidisciplinary manner between areas and political levels. We must understand that the search for solutions is not only in repression. The preventive framework is at least as important, Ms. Matz. We must not wait until serious crimes have been committed. The best form of prevention is a tailor-made approach and accompaniment from the observation of transgressive behaviour. Although this is not really a jurisdiction of the judiciary, projects such as Stop it Now! from the University of Antwerp and the het tool Vlaggensysteem, which was developed by Sensoa and which can now be used for both minors and adults, can be highlighted. In the future, the latter could be part of even more training in schools, sports clubs and other organizations. I come to questions about social media and the cyber-harassment of Ms. Matz and Ms. Rohonyi. The Directorate of Police Information and ICT Resources (DRI) is unable, on the basis of the information available in the general national database, to provide statistics on forced suicide. The police data bank does contain data on suicides, but it is not possible to determine the reasons for it or whether these facts are the result of a previous offence. As I said, cyber-harassment is a form of crime that must be combated. I had the opportunity to speak on this subject in response to Mrs de Laveleye's questions on 2 June in the same committee. Our current Penal Code contains several provisions to combat cyberviolence and cyber-harassment. The draft Penal Code incorporates all these provisions and improves them. This reform will strengthen the fight against this type of crime. With regard to the criminal policy of the Public Prosecutor's Office, more attention must be paid to these crimes committed through social media. In this regard, 1313 is revised. This circular bans the classification without further opportunity and recommends, in summary, an appropriate reaction for each denunciated fact, the prosecutor choosing the most appropriate reaction to the fact and personality of the author within the usual range of possible decisions. There is no circular dedicated specifically to sexual violence, but the College has recently decided to develop one. These cases, however, are most often dealt with by specialized magistrates. As regards the specific problem of voyeurism (unauthorised distribution of images of a sexual nature), the legislator has recently introduced a mixed (penal/civil) system into legislation. This is the law of 4 May 2020, which was the subject of communications to front-line prosecutors. This system offers opportunities to combat these types of acts more effectively and to enable the victim to quickly obtain the removal of illegal content. This provision provides, inter alia, for a criminal sanction to be imposed on any person who refuses to lend his technical assistance to the injunctions of the King's prosecutor or to the execution of the judge's decision. We work together with the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men for Adults and with Child Focus for minors to get such illegal online content off the Internet as soon as possible. It is very important as soon as possible as we must avoid these images starting to circulate. Then evil is done. Victims who Google must get to the Institute and Child Focus websites faster. Both settings are trusted flaggers at many media giants and work directly with Google, YouTube, Facebook and thus Instagram, TikTok and many others. From this position we can ensure that certain images are taken offline faster than by regular route. That is important and we want to continue to work on it. Ms Rohonyi referred to the VRT unveiling of secret discussion groups, for example via the Telegram app. I can add the following on this point. The I2-IRU section of the DJ SOC (Central Directorate for Combating Serious and Organised Crime) is present on Telegram as part of this search for illegal content, at least with regard to open source content. Anything that is not open source or freely accessible is regulated by law and subject to the authorization of a magistrate. Most communication platforms, including Telegram, WhatsApp or Facebook, offer the opportunity to create closed discussion groups. These discussions are only available to the members of the group. Section I2-IRU acts as the single point of contact (SPOC) for requests for the removal of illegal content addressed to platforms. The Institute can ensure that the images are out of line faster and this is because the Revenge porn law has been in place for a year. They serve as reliable intermediaries to ask for example Facebook or You Tube to remove illegal images as soon as possible. I will never repeat enough that victims should be made aware of the crucial role that the Institute can play in removing images. I would also like to mention very briefly the approval by the Council of Ministers on 7 May of a preliminary draft law on the collection and retention of identification, traffic and location data in the electronic communications sector and their access by the authorities. This law re-establishes the annulment by the Constitutional Court of the Act of 29 May 2016 on data rensonation. It is very important, also in the fight against cyberviolence and cyber-harassment, that judicial authorities be able to identify users of electronic communications services and to verify whether there has been contact between victims and suspects of such offences. In order to enable the effective application of Articles 46a and 88a of the Code of Criminal Investigation, traffic identity data must be kept by operators. However, cyberviolence is also a structural problem and needs to be addressed holistically. Children, young people, adults need to learn how to safely manage the wealth offered by the Internet while being fully aware of the dangers involved. An important role therefore lies in education and prevention. BeSafe provides prevention advice. Clean Safe, Child Focus's website, offers useful tips for children, teenagers, parents, professionals on responsible use of the Internet. In addition, the helplines, both by telephone and by chat, of the competent services of the committees are also an important instrument both in preventive terms and in support of victims as they proceed. In this context, I must also highlight the limitations imposed by article 150 of the Constitution. If the offences in question turn out to be press offences, it is the Assize Court that has jurisdiction, which de facto leads to impunity. That is why we want to amend Article 150 of the Constitution. Our police and judicial system are adapting to the new challenges of cybernetics. The framework note on comprehensive security, the National Security Plan, the Police Act and the plans currently being prepared within the Government will put the appropriate emphasis in this framework. I refer first of all to the Law of 31 July 2020 on Justice, which obliges all magistrates to undergo training in the field of sexual violence. During this training, organised by the IGO, much attention is also paid to the concept of consent and to non-magistrates as teachers. This training lasts three full days. Mrs Bury, I do not know whether the tool of the Flemish system should be included in the lesson package, because the purpose of this tool is mainly preventive and addressed to the people rather than to the Justice itself. In particular, Mr Rohonyi raised critical questions about training and in particular about the formula developed by the Judicial Training Institute. Above all, it should be noted that the development of the various training programmes on sexual and domestic violence has been the subject of several preparatory meetings and a wide consultation of various parties and organizations concerned. During this preparatory phase, the programme has gradually evolved towards the final version, on which there is a broad consensus. While it is true that initially the subject (expertise, credulity of the victim and assessment of the testimony) was taken up with a brief description, in the draft programme this subject was adapted in April and May 2021, precisely following the remarks of the Judicial Training Institute, which he received from several members of the working group in this regard, including the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, Amnesty International, the Equal Opportunities Directorate of the Ministry of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the SOS Viol association. The theme of this final program module is now "the expert examination of a victim's credulity" and "how to avoid secondary victimization", and its description has become much more detailed. The purpose of this module will be to understand the various explanatory factors regarding the destructurized content of certain victims' testimonies. The intervention will briefly recall the main reasons why only a small minority of victims decide to file a complaint. The figures for the rates of no action and convictions will be recalled. The presentation will focus on linking scientific knowledge of the psychological effects of sexual assault and domestic violence to their impact on the narratives of assaults. The presentation will examine the rate of false allegations of domestic or sexual violence in relation to other types of crime. The submission will also balance the interest in filing a false rape complaint and the lack of interest in filing it, considering the many disadvantages. At the beginning of May, the Equal Opportunities Directorate of the Ministry of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation expressed its great satisfaction with the adaptation of the programme on this point. The module is therefore well maintained with an appropriate title in the comprehensive information programme on sexual violence or for the development of its detailed description. In conclusion, you are asking, Mrs Rohonyi, what percentage of cases of domestic or sexual violence in which false statements with far-reaching consequences could be identified, know that it is not possible on the basis of the data available in the BNG to provide the number of facts recorded by the police in relation to domestic violence, sexual violence for which false statements have been established. This information is not included in the police database. In this context, I would like to point out that the explanatory memorandum to the preliminary draft law on sexual criminal law contains the following: "A complete reversal of the burden of proof in the sense that non-approval is always suspected in sexual acts and the prior consent must be proved by the defendant, seems to be a bridge too far. For example, it is difficult to expect the consent to be recorded in writing or witnesses to certify the consent obtained verbally before sexual contacts are started, and the risk of abuse is not imaginary. On the other hand, the principle of dubio pro reo irrespective of the type of delinquency involved must not be undermined. In case of doubt, the rights of the defence must be able to play to the full and the accused or accused must go free. It is not unimportant to know that the report of the Supreme Court of Justice shows that in 7.5% of cases of sexual delinquency it appears to be a false declaration. In the legal psychological literature it is stated that false rape declarations are five times as common as false declarations of most other crimes. A complete reversal of the burden of proof threatens to encourage false declarations and lead to legal error. These, too, are elements that we must dare to face in a rule of law, ladies and gentlemen. I come to Mrs Dillen's questions about the College of Attorney General and communication. My ministry gives absolute priority to rape and sexual assault cases. Other files, such as homicide, beatings and injuries, are also given equal priority. These are serious violations of physical or sexual integrity. Some judicial investigations take a long time because the different parties involved may exercise certain rights, such as requesting additional investigations. These are rights that we cannot simply restrict in the context of the right to defence. I will refrain from personal comments, but I would like to point out in this context the statements made by certain lawyers following the objection investigation by a defendant's attorney in the case dealing with the death of a student of student club Giant Gum. The words 'disgraceful and 'a standing unworthy' were taken in the mouth by fellow-confrers. So it is not so much a question of priorities in prosecution policy. Mrs Dillen, in order to give a concrete answer to your question about the possible consultation with the College of Attorneys General, I would like to say that we would very much like to draw up various letters, together with the Attorney General, on the wider interpretation of the concept of sexual violence, specifically for cases of sexual violence. Those circulars should contain clear guidelines to identify the different forms of sexual violence and, where appropriate, to improve prosecution policies. I would also like to invite the Communities to begin dialogue with me, in consultation with the College of Attorneys General. The victim's expertise network is constantly working to improve communication between the parquet and the victims in order to avoid the victim's secondary victimisation. For example, a project on letters of information aimed at victims at a number of key moments in criminal proceedings is currently being finalised. During these criminal proceedings, information should also flow more rapidly to the victims. We are looking at how digitalisation can play a crucial role in this. The magistrate can always record a victim reception service in a particular file. Victim reception is a competence of the Communities. Whether the offer should be extended, I leave it to their evaluation. The way in which a victim who does not respond to the offer of contacting the victim reception service should be approached falls within the jurisdiction of the courts. So far, the answers to the many questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u34	Minister, thank you for this extremely detailed answer, as you announced. We have more time in committee to see the various elements than in a relatively quick response to the plenary session last week. With regard to sexual violence, you have already had the opportunity to respond widely about all the mechanisms put in place. I was especially very attentive to what you were going to say about cyberharassment. You referred to the law on revenge porn mainly, which we had initiated and which was passed unanimously at the time with this mechanism that serves well. We realize that there were doubts in many of us about its functioning. But it's an interesting device that answers real problems. Cyberharassment, however, is not just the dissemination of images of a sexual nature without the consent of the person. Cyberharassment represents many other things. At this level, I find that there is still a legal vacuum regarding the withdrawal of inappropriate comments and publications. This remains rather problematic. It is realized that not all of these cases can be referred to justice either. We must therefore imagine something else, a device that allows rapid action, because it is not only the dissemination of images that hurts the victim. Rather, it should be densified at the federal level with social media prevention components, as I said at the outset at the beginning of my intervention. At the federal level, I find that we do not yet have a comprehensive enough view of what cyber-harassment is and how to respond adequately - so very quickly - to the problems that arise, in particular to remove photos, images and comments that, without being sexual in nature, participate in cyber-harassment. I will therefore be extremely attentive to the project that you will shortly - I hope - table on these points. I also extend my hand to you, reminding you that I have been working on these topics for years and that I am at your disposal to perfect elements and reread texts. As I've always told you, I don't need to know if it's stamped "Vivaldi" or "Maz". What matters to me is that the devices are as fair as possible. So I stand at the disposal of the government on these matters that I have been working on for years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u35	Mr Minister, thank you because this is indeed a very detailed answer. I think the subject is important enough for us to take the time to respond well and understand, as you have done and demonstrated, what exists and what is being put in place. This seems to work well, Mrs Matz, but some problems are still being pointed out. I'm joining you, Mrs. Matz, because I've been interested in this for a while, whether it's cyber-harassment or hat speeches. Finally, we find ourselves confronted with this hatred and violence, and with facts that can lead to serious consequences. We are almost always, Minister, a late war on reactions. I also see the glass half full, rest assured. Good things are in place, but I also see that there is still work to be done. I also very much welcome, Mr Minister, the fact that you are doing something about it, and that you will be doing it here in the Justice Committee in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for the very comprehensive answer. You want to make this clear, and that is important. But I constantly hear you sneer that much has already been done, that you are working on it, that care centres have been set up and that they will be extended to ten, thereby lowering the threshold for the victims. But let us be serious: this is also about horrible facts over and over again. The problem is that they are not properly punished. You mentioned an increase in penalties, and I look forward to that with you, and we will work on that. But your remark that a great deal has already been done and we should not make any comments, that is really a bridge too far. After all, things are just not right. Because the repressive approach is nothing like it, such horrific acts continue to take place. You said prevention is very important, but part of it is repression that is harsh enough to deter perpetrators. I'm sure of it. Your answer about the tool was rather unclear. You said it's a useful tool for the justice system and that it's good to name the grey zone. On the other hand, you mentioned its introduction in sports clubs and schools. This is about the existing tool for minors; I was talking about adults. You also doubted whether the tool could be used in the courts. If it is a tool for the whole population and understands how to interpret the flag system, then the justice system must be able to do the same. In fact, we often see in the justice system that people are judged over the heads of people and that people apparently do not know what lives among the people. It is certainly useful for the justice system to include that flag system in training. We need to look at what is cross-border and what is not. It is also necessary to examine whether there is a problem with the hierarchy of facts; then some facts can be regarded as aggravating. So the tool can certainly be useful. I can only repeat what I said in plenary, namely that I hope you will continue to do just as much in this as in the fight against hate speech. After all, this needs to be addressed. The penalties must be much higher, and we must put an end to the fact that perpetrators go free. They often get out after half their sentence and then commit new facts, when they should still be in prison. I hope you will act as hard against that as against hate speech. As far as freedom of expression is concerned, I would like to point out that your colleague Somers seems to continue to subsidise some kind of hate image, which states that homosexuality is and must be eradicated as the worst and most depraved disease. This will then fall under the heading of freedom of expression. But when you pull out a banner, that is a bridge too far and you will do what is necessary to prohibit it. I urge you to stop using double standards and two weights, otherwise you will not be thanked by the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answers and your voluntarism. Violence against women and girls must all be seen as a scourge and a pandemic. It is therefore necessary to act upstream and downstream of the phenomenon. We need to tighten our repressive arsenal. You said you wanted a new bill before the summer, but I didn't have any details about the deadline for your bill to be on the table in Parliament. All of the bills we have introduced in relation to sexual criminal law are pending and await this bill, as they have been appended to it. We don't see him coming, and I'm worried about him. We must also work on repression. The Inter-Ministerial Conference on Women's Rights has a major role to play, particularly with regard to the follow-up of authors, regardless of their age. Apart from the tightening of sentences, alongside the aggravating circumstance that must be foreseen in cases of mass rape, alongside the improvement of the collection of evidence, it is necessary to support all these actors who can assist the victims in their efforts, in order to cope with their distress, and thus prevent them from committing the irreparable. There is also a need to support actors who can prevent abusers from taking action and thus protect young girls and women. You mentioned a series of actors, such as listening lines. I am also thinking of the prisons and the IPPJs who must be able to propose specific programmes for sexual abusers. Support centres can help us. I am also thinking of the centres for dealing with sexual violence, which you mentioned earlier, which must be accessible to both adults and minors. I am also thinking about the training of magistrates and am pleased to hear that the module on victim testimony has been revised. I'm also thinking about social networks. You referred to the law of 4 May 2020 on the unconscionable distribution of sexual images, which calls on social networks to remove such content as soon as possible. Today, I always wonder how this law is applied. You told us that you had met the Institute for Gender Equality but also Facebook and Google. I would be curious to know what these platforms have committed to. Finally, I will address the issue of the specific protection of minors in cases of rape. Although we do not yet know what is provided for in your bill, which will be different at this level, I hope, from that of Mr. Geens, the original bill of the Criminal Code provided for the possibility of informed consent from the age of 14 unless there was a difference of age of more than five years between the victim and the perpetrator or if the person was in a position of authority or confidence in the victim. Is it still up to date? Indeed, it is clear from this case, the 14-year-old girl and the perpetrators between the ages of 17 and 19, that such legislation would endanger minors. I had to draw your attention to this as well. For the rest, I thank you for your voluntarism.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed answer. Actually, we're just yours. I am pleased that you would like to respond positively to the various questions I have put to you. I will follow with particular attention the sent letters that have been announced. The redirects should improve the policy of prosecution of such offences. You are right to say that the victims must be informed more quickly. Of course, I do not expect any statements on an ongoing dossier by you, as Minister of Justice. Two years have to wait, and not being informed as a victim in the file I raised is extremely frustrating. Victim reception and courthouses play a very important role here, but it is not enough for the victims themselves. Victims do not understand that a procedure takes so long, especially when the perpetrators are known. You rightly refer to the rights of the defence, which must indeed be respected. In practice, however, we note that all too often lawyers make use of the possibility to ask for additional investigative actions, which postpones the procedure for the chambers for months. Somehow we have to have the courage to think about this. Shouldn't there be limits to this? The rights of the defence must certainly be respected, but victims also have rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u40	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. I couldn't ask a question, but I wanted to react in reply. I listened carefully to your answer, which covers different levels. But there is still one element, in my fundamental opinion, that we pass by. You're talking about getting more pain. It's very good, it can go in the right direction. But what is the point of increasing sentences when four out of every one hundred perpetrators are prosecuted in court? There's a basic problem. Only 10% of victims dare to file a complaint. The reception is pretty bad. Police officers lack training to handle such complaints. And most importantly, half of these files are closed. The issue of rape is a societal problem. This societal problem is found in our institutions. Resources must be invested for the training of police officers. Human and financial resources must be provided to the justice system to enable it to deal with these complaints, to avoid the filing of complaints without further action. I didn't hear anything about it. In addition, there is also the issue of sexual violence centres. You promised three for 2021. Finally, there will be only two. Would it not be necessary to review this decision and invest even more at this level, while also investing in the judiciary and the police system to empower them to investigate, take complaints seriously and be trained to deal with this problem? If penalties are to be increased, victims must be able to file complaints, taken seriously and prosecuted, which is far from the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u41	Madam Chair, Ms. Rohonyi, in such a short period of time, an initial analysis was provided by the FPS Justice on the central criminal record as well as on the request for pardon. No other actors have yet been questioned, because we will first set out the path to be followed on the basis of an analysis, after which, in a later phase, all the parties concerned will of course be questioned. The first analysis concerns only Belgian legislation. No comparative law studies have yet been conducted, as this is not possible within such a short time frame. If you have any suggestions from European countries on which we could take an example, I would be grateful if you would inform me. We want to work in depth and therefore take the time. In response to your second question, the analysis revealed several possible leads and proposals that I will already share with you, with all the usage reserves. Thus, all possible actors will be aware of the leads that the Justice FPS will suggest. This may be the beginning of an interesting debate. In addition, I am open to other options that, to date, have not yet been included in the analysis of the FPS Justice. There are a number of possible avenues. The first lead would be to amend section 595, paragraph 1, of the Code of Criminal Investigation in order to expand the list of convictions which, as an exception, would no longer be included in a type 595 extract or basic model of a criminal record extract. For example, a decision could be taken to include only sentences of deprivation of liberty or imprisonment for a period of time or longer. It must be taken into account, however, that at present, the elements not mentioned in this excerpt are, rather, concerned with a certain type of measure or conviction and do not depend on the seriousness of the conviction or the type of offence, so that we are of the opinion that this solution should not be considered. Section 595, paragraph 2, of the Code already provides for the non-mention of minor convictions, convictions by simple conviction and fines imposed for traffic offences after a period of three years. One possibility would be to consider extending the list to other convictions, such as those covered by the Pandemic Act, or to shorten the three-year time limit so that convictions cease to be mentioned more quickly, or a mix of the two. A second route would be to adapt the automatic erasure referred to in section 690 of the Code. There are several possibilities, such as reducing the current three-year time limit, extending erasure according to the nature of the conviction, or targeting certain offences as exceptions. However, aiming at a specific offence in the context of erasure could raise issues with regard to the principles of legality and non-discrimination by reserving different treatment to persons in the same situation. If this option were to be chosen, the reasons for this difference should be determined in detail. Finally, a final possibility to consider would be the adaptation of the rehabilitation procedure. The criticisms of the Commission relate to the fact that this procedure would not be known and that the procedure would be slow. In order to meet these criticisms, legislative intervention is not necessarily useful. Beyond that, it could be envisaged that this procedure would be adjusted in order to reduce delays. In addition, obtaining rehabilitation is subject to a test period. This varies according to the severity of the sanction and not the type of offence. A track could be the adaptation of this test duration. In answer to your third question, it is still too early to draw conclusions. In this short period of time, that would not be wise. The effects of such a decision greatly determine the possibilities of social reclassification to be attributed to the convicted person. The possible review of the criminal record and the rehabilitation procedure must therefore be carried out in depth in consultation with all relevant actors. The opinion of the College of Attorneys General is indispensable. This also applies to other possible changes. As noted above, no comparative law studies have yet been resumed. I'm waiting for your suggestions. Finally, in reply to your last question, it should be recalled that, to the extent that this procedure falls within the competence of the King's Prosecutor, the opinion of the College of Attorneys General is indispensable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that an initial analysis could not cover a study of other neighbouring countries with regard to the issue of the extract from the criminal record. I can provide you with a list of interesting countries, but I can already draw your attention to what is being done in the Netherlands, where the Centraal Orgaan Verklaring Omtrent het Gedrag is located, who is responsible for deciding which convictions are relevant to communicate to the employer or not. So this is a rather interesting way of thinking! In any case, I believe that this law must indeed be able to be assessed as such, but also in comparison with foreign countries, in order to ensure the emancipation and social reintegration of people, an object which is stressed in your own government agreement, while at the same time ensuring the protection of society. I therefore believe that the objective is to clarify the convictions that are relevant and that can be communicated to the employer on the basis of the severity of the sentences, but also and above all on the basis of their relevance to the function that is sought by the person. I am of course aware that an exhaustive list is impossible, but it must be noted that today abuses are the result of the broad wording that exists today in the current law and that, therefore, we must be able to respond to them while, of course, ensuring that the principle of non-discrimination is not hindered. With regard to the rehabilitation procedure, I would like to recall your commitment, which was taken up in committee on 5 May, to include this procedure of rehabilitation in order to enable more people with a judicial background, for example in the case of minor juvenile offences, to find a blank criminal record. You have also made a commitment to consult with the magistrates for this purpose. I didn't understand what was going on today. There should be consultation with the College of Prosecutors General, but I do not think that consultation within this framework should be limited to these actors alone. There is also the problem of informing people about this procedure. You announced that a publication had been put in place on the central criminal record web page. But I always ask myself whether it has borne fruit in terms of information. Has there been a significant increase in pardon applications since then? On some points, I still stay on my hunger.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u43	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no...................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u44	Madam President, Mr Segers, as regards your first question, when 49 refugees were found on 19 May, the persons concerned were detained and transferred to the Zeebrugge shipping police and the Bruges local police zone, respectively, because of the size of the group. In the following week, 81 people were found and they were transferred to the local police zone West Coast. There, the administrative handling of the transmigrants was carried out and at the same time all the elements which could lead from a judicial point of view to the smuggling organisation which could be held responsible for these facts. With regard to the content of the criminal investigation, reference is, of course, made to the secret of the investigation. As far as your second question is concerned, the reference office was immediately informed of both interceptions and took over the coordination of the investigation into human trafficking. As far as your third question is concerned, cooperation was very smooth. I was also able to hear that from the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. The Foreign Affairs Department has gone to both interceptions on the scene. As regards your fourth question, the first intervention involved two minors of Vietnamese origin, the second intervention involved six minors, two of whom came from Vietnam, three from Syria and one from Iraq. As for your fifth question, the Voogdij service was indeed informed, each time on the day of the interception. The contacts have been made by the police forces and the staff present at the DVZ. At the first interception, the minors, who first indicated that they wanted to stay with the group, were transferred to Sürya and Esperanto by the Voogdij service. At the second interception, the minors were transferred by the Voogdij to Steenokkerzeel. With regard to your sixth, seventh and eighth questions, I can tell you that the procedure on a worrying education situation was not initiated, as the minors fulfilled the conditions for granting the status of victims of human trafficking with aggravating circumstances. As for your ninth question, at the first interception, the minors were transferred to Sürya and Esperanto the day after they were found, and in the meantime they were humanely received by the police. At the second interception, the minors were transferred to Steenokkerzeel by the Voogdij service on the same day. Then I come to your tenth question. A Vietnamese minor is still staying with Esperanto and hasn't disappeared. The other Vietnamese minor has disappeared. The six minors of the second intervention have already disappeared from the centre in Steenokkerzeel. As for your 11th question, the status of victim of human trafficking with aggravating circumstances was granted. I have already answered how many of them were and what is the current state of affairs with regard to these minors. Your 12th question, then. Like you, I have been particularly interested in the problem over the last few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u45	Excuse me, Minister, but the interpreters can't follow your pace.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u46	I apologize for that. The drama in Essex has taken hold of me, too. Our services of police and justice do a very commendable job, in cooperation with other services, such as DVZ, in very difficult circumstances. They deserve a lot of respect for that. I think that the saying mop-up with the crane open in this pressing problem certainly applies, because the problem is by definition international and even global. Lucky seekers from Africa and the Middle East are willing to pay a lot to get into Europe, and preferably the United Kingdom. Just yesterday I discussed this issue with Mrs Ghada Waly, the executive director of the UN Office against Drugs and Crime, UNODC. From UNODC, attention to the problem will not be weakened and will also be directed against corruption in some countries of origin. We are making every effort to identify the criminal networks behind the smuggling and punish those responsible. With regard to these concrete facts, it can only be said that there are indications of human trafficking with aggravating circumstances. You know there's not much I can say about that because of the investigation. Of course, tackling trafficking in human beings is a priority. I have every confidence that this organized crime will be firmly deployed from the parquets, the local parquets involved, but also the federal parquet. I would like to give you further elements and problems, which are very specific to this problem and on which a good policy needs to be developed. Firstly, there is the cross-border context. The centre of gravity of human smuggling with small boats is in France, where almost every night, especially when the weather is favourable, numerous small inflatable boats with small engines, often overloaded, are pushed into the North Sea. On our coast, interventions have been relatively limited. This has to do with social control on our coasts, but also with the constant use of police and police forces to intervene immediately in any movement towards the Belgian coast. When human trafficking organisations move their territory, the police and prosecutors act as quickly as possible. Specifically with regard to the small boats, we make a lot of efforts on Belgian territory to avoid dramatic crossings as much as possible. On several occasions vehicles were intercepted in West Flanders with which members of human smuggling organizations were transporting boats to France. These suspects have already been taken into custody and sentenced repeatedly. I hear from my magistrates that they are in contact with their Dutch colleagues, where the leader of an organisation in the Netherlands was arrested following a joint investigation team.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u47	As far as the boats are concerned, it is remarkable that they are often bought in Germany, after which smugglers cross Belgium towards France. In recent months, our Belgian investigators have had suspects arrested in Germany on several occasions in order to have them transferred by means of a European arrest warrant for prosecution before the Belgian court. International contacts, including with our neighbouring countries, remain important. Our reference magistrates Human Trafficking maintain good contacts with foreign colleagues. Our federal parquet is part of the Focus Group for Prosecutors on Migrant Smuggling at European level and of the North Sea task force, where the parquet of West Flanders is also regularly involved. I do not, of course, fail to discuss the problem of boating in my contacts with fellow ministers and ambassadors, for example in Germany. Secondly, with regard to the intercepted migrants and the cooperation with the Justice Department, from the extensive experience that the police and police have, especially in the coastal region, we know that, unfortunately, the transmigrants in the vast majority of interceptions are not prepared to cooperate with police and police forces to identify smugglers. There may be many reasons for this: the fact that they or their families are under pressure, the fact that they have already made great financial sacrifices and are threatening to lose the smuggling price or the fact that they are coming very far and do not wish to hypothesize their chances of crossing the UK in the last straight line. Interrogation of transmigrants often results in little or nothing useful. They do not want to tell the smugglers or dare to make statements. This applies all the more to transmigrants from Vietnam, who are a fortiori very closed and want to give little or no relevant information. So we must not assume that they will cooperate with us out of gratitude. What we can assume, however, is that transmigrants at the police station are being received in the most humane way. Food packages are being handed over to them. As far as the intervention in Koksijde is concerned, I was informed that each person has undergone a covid test and that the municipality of Koksijde has handed over a food package to each of them. If necessary, medical assistance will also be provided. In practice, this means that the police and the police must do everything in their power to identify smugglers and collect all the objective elements, regardless of the statements made by the transmigrants. The first-line determinations of the local police are very important in this respect. By the way, this week we held a special training session in Dutch and French for the local police about the importance of these first-line determinations. Thirdly, with regard to the status of victims of trafficking in human beings and the transmigrants and any victims, whether or not they are minors, of trafficking in human beings, it is necessary to check whether or not victims fulfil the condition to be granted the status of victims of trafficking in human beings with aggravating circumstances. This calls in the first instance for a detection by the police, as described in the 2016 circular, informing people about that statute. Many immigrants do not want the statute at all, as they insist on their commitment to getting into the United Kingdom. As you just said, the Foreign Affairs Office was present at Zeebrugge and Koksijde during the two incidents, to hear transmigrants through an interpreter. This implies that not only the police but also the DVZ were able to identify the person who indicated interest in the victim's status. It happens very often that the conditions for granting the victim status are not met at all. They often do not want to break contact with the smuggling organisation. Cooperation with the judicial authorities is also very often a stumbling block. Magistrates remind me that the benefit of the doubt can be given to the victims in case a victim indicates that he or she wishes to be helped. However, as has been said, many immigrants do not want help in the form of a protection status in our country. In the present case, it has also been found that a young lady who was received in Sürya, backed by the victim status granted to her by the reference magistraat, has disappeared again. Six minors were received after the second intervention through the Voogdij service in Steenokkerzeel and could potentially also be granted the victim status, but they disappeared very quickly. The latter points out that they did not want help or assistance and wished to move on to the United Kingdom. Of course, we are following the situation on the ground with police and police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer, which is another understatement. As you know, the fight against trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings is very important to me. You have already shown in the facts that you are also inclined to take that view, which you also prove with your current answer. I'm gonna have to read the answer quietly. After all, it was not only too fast for the interpreters, but even for a Dutch language like me the first part went very quickly. However, I shall revisit the answer. Why do I come back to specific cases and specific cases? That is because I want to ensure from the committee that the existing rules are properly applied, also to keep everyone sharp, so that, if anything goes wrong, we can adjust and learn our lessons. We are doing the very best we can in the parliamentary working group or committee which will be set up later in order to monitor the fight against trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u49	Is it true that, in the event of an incomplete record, the Tribunal does not retain any documents, even valid, sent by companies and associations wishing to amend their statutes? If so, what justifies such a practice? Why is the Tribunal not a case with all the documents it has been sent for completion of a specific task? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u50	Mrs Rohonyi, thank you for your question. Are you aware that I have already answered a similar question from Mrs Matz, in particular about the situation of the TPAMP Touche Pas ASBL in Ma Pote? Is this a similar question?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u51	Minister, I must confess that I have not heard of this answer, but I have heard from associations that are concerned about the more general situation regarding the statutory amendments of the NSAs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u52	I'm aware of the quote from this ASBL. I will essentially repeat what I have said to Mrs Matz. Please be aware that without a business number, it is not possible for the Brussels company court to verify the returns that may have been made in a particular case. As soon as the company court finds an irregularity, the complete file shall be returned to the applicant for correction or further information. Very often, the court finds that the documents submitted are incomplete. In its annual report 2020, the Tribunal de l'entreprise francophone de Bruxelles provides a table of the Registry's activities, i.e. the number of files validated by the Registry and the number of files that have had to be referred back to the applicant for correction or further information. I'll give you this picture. The figures provided provide three lessons. Firstly, the number of cases dealt with in Brussels is quite considerable with a dozen employees. Secondly, the number of returns for correction increased between 2018 and 2020; it appears that this is due to the introduction of the new Code of Companies and Associations (CSA). Since the guidelines published on the court's website have now been eroded, the court hopes to see a reduction in returns for correction or further information in the future. These returns result in a very high workload for the transplant. Third, there is a very clear difference between companies and non-profit organisations, which is due to the fact that companies most often rely on professionals, which the smaller non-profit organisations do not do. For a question of practice, a monitoring system is not possible for the Brussels company court. The Registry of this Court receives up to 200 requests for publications per day and does not have storage space to keep all applications. For this reason, incomplete files are returned in their entirety with the request to complete the file before returning it with all the required documents. Thus, the problems encountered are often due to non-compliance with administrative procedures and the failure to return all requested documents. I understand that this way of doing things seems archaic and kafkaian, Mrs. Rohonyi, and looks like an administrative labyrinth. Fortunately, we are changing that. The eGREFFE application of the Justice FPS already allows all citizens to create an online LSA. eGREFFE will be modernized in the summer of 2022. It will then allow the digital filing of private amendments to the statutes for the general public. If the defendant uses the eGREFFE platform, he or she will sign electronically. As a result, there will no longer be an original handwritten signature requirement. On the other hand, if the justiciable continues to use the paper channel, the rule of the original signature will apply and will prevent the use of the email for changes to the statutes. The modernisation, generalisation and obligation to use the eGREFFE platform will facilitate the administrative procedure for businesses with or without profit. For the time being, a digital deposit is already possible for the intervention of a notary (authentic modification) or through the Flemish Centre for Study and Documentation for the ASBL, which is authorised, in the framework of a pilot phase, to intervene for changes to private statutes. As they say in English, change is on the way. Finally, we can put an end to this administrative maze.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I believe that one of the lessons learned from this health crisis is that there is a need for greater flexibility at the administrative level, especially pending the famous digitization of our justice system, particularly with regard to the sending of certain documents by e-mail. I hear we're going to set up the filing of files digitally for next summer. This is excellent news, especially since it will be a real benefit for the people who create these CBHAs. It will also be one for the judicial staff, and in particular that of the transplants, which, as you have rightly pointed out, is literally overloaded at the moment. Thank you for your detailed answer, but I would like to see the answers that you also gave to my colleague Matz.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u54	Dear colleague, a reflection on a right of direct action for children to exercise their rights under the Convention on the Rights of the Child would indeed be interesting. You have already listed elements for this reflection and I will add other considerations. Such a reflection is not easy when it is part of a much broader debate. This right of action illustrates a change of mentality in the perception of the rights of the child by members of society. A child's right to participation requires a certain degree of autonomy, where our right rather favours the protection of his or her interests by his or her legal representative because of his or her state of vulnerability. Furthermore, as has been pointed out by several speakers during the hearings on your bill with regard to personal ties between siblings, the courts have recognized a direct effect in article 12 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which enshrines the right of participation of the child in the exercise of his or her rights, but its scope is limited to granting him or her a right to be heard in court. As you can see, an active participation of the child in the exercise of his or her rights will first require a societal debate on the capacity of minors and how to defend or represent his or her interests according to his or her needs. In addition, a direct right of action for children should be in the best interests of the child. An interesting reflection is currently being carried out by the Council of Europe on the rights and best interests of the child in situations of parental separation. Its conclusions should be part of the ensuing debate. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, as stated in article 3.2 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, consideration of the interests of the child must take into account the rights and duties of legal representatives. Therefore, the establishment of a right of direct action must be the result of a careful balance between the interests of the parents and those of the children, even if the interests of the children must remain paramount as affirmed in international jurisprudence. Furthermore, as recalled in article 12.1 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the active participation of the child in the exercise of his or her rights depends on his or her ability to discern. Therefore, a child could not be entitled to initiate legal proceedings. Finally, it should be ensured that this right of action is not used by one of the parents to oppose the claims of the other. All these elements demonstrate that this right of action must be carefully considered before being enshrined in our legislation. Such a reflection is not provided for in the government agreement, but I will carefully follow a possible reflection by the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answer. What I take from this is a certain openness to the debate, and the fact that at the same time you cannot make a formal commitment to move forward on this issue, which is not included in your government agreement. Therefore, the ball is in Parliament's camp. That's a teaching I'm holding back. Perhaps we will make sure that we start a wide-ranging debate on this issue, because it seems to me to be fundamental. In the present case, it is not a question of granting the minor a right of legal aid identical to the law of the adult. The issue is ultimately to recognize a fundamental right, which is itself recognized in the International Convention on the Rights of the Child and which can, in particular, be useful when the extremely difficult social situations that some children have faced have made them particularly mature and responsible. We saw him at the hearings we had in committee –. As you said today, Belgian law has a right under Article 12 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child to be heard but not to be tried. In my view, we need to change attitudes in this area, while at the same time knowing that this right of action on its own will obviously have to be adapted to the needs of children, to their age, to the remarks made by field associations, psychologists or lawyers. Today, we have leads, precisely because of the work we have done as a result of my bill. In particular, the bar associations insisted on the assistance of a neutral, independent and specially trained lawyer in the defence of minors. I think that today we have leads that allow us to move forward and, therefore, to finally trust the words of the children.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u56	Minister, since 22 March 2016, assistance to victims of the Brussels attacks has been the keystone for the reconstruction of families. This assistance is complex as it requires multidisciplinary, financial, administrative, judicial, medical, psychological, etc. Belgian legislation on this subject is a real minefield. Without free and accessible front-line assistance, victims are delivered to themselves. Recently, I questioned you because we discovered in the press that you entrusted to the V-Europe victims' association the task of coaching the victims of terrorism. To do this, you have granted him a subsidy of 300,000 euros. Your firm has stated that this project is ready to be launched. This coaching of victims of terrorism would begin in a few days. I am somewhat surprised at the lack of information about this initiative. I appreciate that you and your firm are proactive on this issue; nevertheless, I have some reservations about the method used. As some of my colleagues so well recall, hell is paved with good intentions. Therefore, on such an important issue and with such a human stake, I would like to obtain some clarity and precise answers from you. There are two associations of victims of terrorism: V-Europe and Life4Brussels. How do you justify your choice for one of these associations rather than the other? Do you not think that it was up to the Belgian State to play this role, to fulfil this mission? Has the project been thoroughly studied and finalized? Can we get a full copy of the project? Did you make sure that the V-Europe association had the skills to fulfil a mission of such importance? Has it ever assisted victims in the past, for example, with the Commission for financial assistance to victims? V-Europe has obtained approval from the SPF Justice to assist victims with the Commission for financial assistance to victims. How many victims have been assisted? How will two coaches be able to coach the 800 victims of the March 22, 2016 attacks in one year? What will be the training of these coaches? V-Europe has stated that it will act proactively vis-à-vis the victims and that it will go to the victims to offer them its help. Can the V-Europe association have access to the personal data of victims who are not registered with it? Have you consulted the Data Protection Authority on this issue? What about privacy? You proposed to the second victim association, Life4brussels, to collaborate with V-Europe on this project. Can you specify what you mean by collaboration? Since January, I have been waiting for you to come back to the solution as to the delays in foreclosure in order to enable victims to become aware of the harmful consequences of the attacks on their lives. I already restarted you in February; you replied that your services were studying the issue. What about today, four months later? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u57	Madam Chair, Mrs Rohonyi, Mr Boukili, I am trying to consolidate the answers to the various questions. It's a pretty long answer, and I'm sorry. I refer first to the debate in the Joint Committee on the Interior and Justice following the commemoration of the five years of the attacks of 22 March 2016. This commission took place on Friday, March 26, 2021. In the course of this debate, I have already been able to focus extensively on the project of coaching victims. I am, of course, aware of the existence of these two associations. In that case, it was not a matter of making a choice. V-Europe spontaneously sent me a detailed proposal. I fully agree with you: first of all, it is up to the State to take the necessary initiatives to help the victims of terrorist acts. Many initiatives have already been taken in this regard, both by the federal authorities and by the Communities. This does not prevent civil society from playing a role, such as an organisation such as an association of companions of misfortune or an association of people which, unfortunately, could be described as experts on the basis of experience. The proposal developed by V-Europe was based on the observation that, despite all the efforts of all the competent actors and without denying them, an additional effort could be useful for some victims, namely to be able to call on coaches. Coaches can assist victims very closely in the steps they have to take or want to take, in full complementarity with the existing offer. This approach is not so exceptional. Let us take the example of the special missions also carried out by organisations providing assistance to victims of trafficking in human beings. In response to your second question, I can assure you that this project has been carefully examined. The corresponding Royal Decree describes precisely the tasks expected and the conditions to be fulfilled in order to benefit from the grant. The decree will soon be published at the Moniteur belge. You will be able to learn about it. Satisfying and providing evidence of its competence is indeed one of the conditions of the grant granted. So I made sure in advance that the organization had the required skills. V-Europe is an international ASBL founded in 2017. His actions can be consulted at the Moniteur belge. By Royal Decree of 19 November 2019, V-Europe received the approval as an association that could assist victims of terrorist acts in the context of the measures taken by them vis-à-vis the Commission for financial assistance to victims. The conditions for recognition as such are set out in the Royal Decree of 18 December 1986 on the Commission for financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence and occasional rescuers. This provision includes a number of criteria which the association must be able to meet in order to receive this recognition. These are in particular the following conditions: Firstly, the association must aim at the long-term and effective support of the victims of terrorism without any discrimination. Secondly, such an association must be able to designate persons with the necessary training or relevant professional experience with sufficient legal knowledge and therefore applicable to assist victims of terrorism. Thirdly, it must have a list of members that includes the names of the victims affiliated with the association on the basis of an effective official registration. The dossier submitted by V-Europe for this recognition was also carefully examined by the service. It was on the basis of this investigation that this recognition was granted. The Royal Decree also sets out a number of requirements for this initiative, such as the fact that there must be at least one French-speaking coach and one Dutch-speaking coach, who also has the necessary knowledge in German and English. A distinction must be made between assistance to victims to submit a case to the Commission, in accordance with article 34 of the Act of 1 August 1985, and assistance to victims to the secretariat of the Commission. Article 34 provides that "the applicant shall be heard by the Commission if he so requests in writing or if he considers it necessary. To this end, he may be assisted or represented by his lawyer. He may also be assisted by the delegate of a public body or an association approved for that purpose by the King." As far as V-Europe is concerned, it should be noted that the approval of this association came at a time when the deadline for the introduction of the dossiers was coming to an end and the vast majority of the dossiers had already been submitted. It is therefore logical that few files have been introduced by him. In addition, V-Europe's ad hoc interventions have taken place in relation to more specific issues and victims of V-Europe's membership. The same applies to Life4Brussels. Victims supported by this association are often assisted by a lawyer who shares the values of this group and who has the power to assist and represent his clients because of his status as a lawyer. The Life4Brussels association obtained its approval by royal decree of 11 May this year. The procedure for the recognition of associations was laid down by the Royal Decree of 17 May 2019, amending the Royal Decree of 18 December 1986. As part of its fact-finding mission, the secretariat of the Commission shall have regular contacts with the two associations and shall be at their disposal to respond to their requests within the limits of its function. In the absence of specific statistical records, it is not possible to provide figures on the number of persons in favour of whom victims' associations have intervened. As far as your question on coaching is concerned, we have based ourselves on V-Europe's proposals. Indeed, I assume that these two coaches have work to do. I would remind you that the work of these coaches complements the regular initiative of receiving and assisting victims. These coaches can act at the victim's request or through proactive contact with the victim or his or her relatives. It may be established following removal by a reception or victim support service. These referrals to other services are always carried out with the consent of the victim so that V-Europe can legally obtain information about the victim. To this end, V-Europe will be in contact with the National Victims Unit of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, with the Commission for Victim Assistance, as well as with the federal bodies responsible for victim support. With regard to Mrs Rohonyi's question, the draft did not provide for any exclusion of victims. In addition, the Royal Subsidy Order explicitly provides for the support mission of foreign victims of terrorist attacks on Belgian non-resident territory through the means of communication that is most appropriate for the victim or his or her relatives. Fourthly, for me, the main thing is that all victims of terrorism can appeal to these coaches. It is true that my ambition was to improve cooperation between the two associations. Let me share with you the chronology and the facts. On 25 January 2020, an interview with V-Europe, at the time an association of victims already recognized. V-Europe presented me, at that time, with the proposal of the coach project. On January 5, 2021, an interview with Life4Brussels, who also made a number of proposals to me later. My firm is starting to work on all the proposals. On Sunday, 7 March, we send an invitation to Life4Brussels and V-Europe for a meeting with my firm on Friday, 12 March. This date is not appropriate, Life4Brussels only responding to the invitation on 12 March. From there, we'll look for a new date for a new meeting with Life4Brussels. In the meantime, we are making the decision to recognize Life4Brussels as an association of victims. This will be done by royal decree of 11 May. In the meantime, we decide to continue the project for victims of V-Europe. The meeting with the two victim associations was finally held on 7 May. Not before, because it was necessary to postpone the scheduled meeting to an earlier date because of a case of force majeure of one of the participants. The representatives of Life4Brussels, V-Europe and my firm were present at the meeting. The aim was for the two victim associations to cooperate beyond the limits of their own association in the interests of the victim. However, at the end of the meeting, Life4Brussels accused V-Europe of having committed offences. Out of respect for all and because this has not been the subject of a complaint, I will not go into the details. My firm felt these accusations as gross and very destructive. In this context, my cabinet closed the meeting by asking one of the participants, at the time honorary president of Life4Brussels, to try to mediate between the two associations. He immediately accepted the mission. On 27 May, this mediator informed my cabinet that he was resigning as honorary president of Life4Brussels. He therefore requested discharge from his mediation mission. I am considering further steps, if any, to be taken. With regard to the question of the deadline for submission to the Committee on Aid to Victims of Terrorism, this is a decision taken during the previous parliamentary term. In order to extend this deadline, my predecessor, in collaboration with the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the secretariat of the Victims Support Commission, requested the SPF to send a reminder letter to all identified victims who had not applied to the Commission in order to enable them to act within the legal deadline. This took place at the beginning of 2020, with the deadline ending on 18 March 2020. This operation was followed by effects: several hundred cases were opened in the last few months, of which more than 220 were introduced by Life4Brussels' lawyer. The system adopted under the previous legislature had its own logic. Assistance to victims of terrorism is conditional on the recognition of the facts as an act of terrorism by royal decree. This principle is set out in Article 42a of the Law of 1 August 1985. Such recognition opens up a number of rights to victims of acts recognized as acts of terrorism. These include the right to obtain national solidarity status and the right to apply for financial assistance. Unlike the victims of ordinary crime, who must have filed a complaint and who must justify damages in order to claim their harm against the perpetrator, it is sufficient for the victims of terrorism to establish that they are victims of a recognized attack in order to have an immediate opportunity to seek and obtain financial assistance. This is provided for in the Royal Decree of 16 February 2017. The order set the time limit of three years for filing the application. This rule is now included in section 42 of the Act of 1 August 1985. In summary, all victims, whether victims of terrorism or victims of ordinary crime, have the same period of three years to apply to the commission. The difference lies in the starting point of the deadline but not within the deadline itself. For victims of terrorism who are exempted from filing a complaint and bringing a case against the perpetrator of an attack, the starting point is the Royal Order of Recognition. The system is different for victims of crime. Every effort has been made to speed up the process of providing financial assistance to victims of terrorism who are exempt from legal action against the perpetrators of a terrorist attack. As a result, they gain a lot of time compared to the victims of ordinary crime, who have to wait for the outcome of legal proceedings. Terrorism trials are important for punishing perpetrators and establishing the truth. However, they are not necessary from the point of view of compensation, since compensation has nothing to do with the judicial process. I would like to inform you of the following considerations. First, a change in the time frame for victims of terrorism would create discrimination in favour of victims of ordinary crimes. Secondly, the three-year deadline is quite common in Europe, with France being an exception. In several countries, the deadline is even shorter. In Spain, a country with extensive experience in terrorism, the deadline is one year. Third, the Victim Assistance Commission has suspended the examination of certain cases for which, in many cases, some of the victims' requests had already been decided by granting them reservations for future costs. The fact that the three-year deadline for the Brussels bombing is exceeded does not therefore prevent future aid from being granted to victims who submitted the case before 18 March 2017. As already mentioned, information was widely disseminated to victims in 2016 and a reminder was sent to all known victims in 2020, giving them the opportunity to apply before the deadline. That is why I do not think it appropriate to reconsider the decision taken by my predecessor. Finally, the coach system appears to me as the important piece missing from the puzzle. Reference coaches, experts help victims not only administratively but also psychologically and humanly. They are supported by a back office that relays with the official points of contact of the administration. We thus introduce another approach to victims; from the victim's own experience, we propose an individual relationship with experienced experts. I very much hope that this system will make a difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u58	Minister, it is a very long response that calls for such a long reply. I only have a minute. So I'll come back to you and ask you more questions. You said a lot of questionable things. I would like to go back to your remarks that the draft was finalized and that a royal decree was coming. When? If it is finalized, normally the royal decree must arrive fairly quickly. Based on the information I have, Mr. Van Tigchelt, from your office, pointed out during a meeting that the project should be built administratively. He had even said that Life4Brussels' invitation was there to put ideas on paper and develop this system together. What I understand is that we give 300,000 euros for a project that is not yet finalized. It's a first thing. You did not give any figures on my question 2C, but you still accepted the idea that there were very few files at V-Europe. I do not understand that 300 000 euros are allocated to an organisation which represents very few files. On the other hand, Life4Brussels represents the majority of the victims and receives nothing. That remains a question mark for me. On the question of the two coaches, excuse me, these are two coaches for 800 victims. It's not feasible unless you're hoping for a miracle. This miracle won't come true, I'm telling you now. In conclusion, this project does not mention children, for example. Children have been completely forgotten from the point of view of victim assistance. How will simple coaches deal with children? Don't we need specialized people to deal with this issue? This project, as you present it, does not give a complete idea of what needs to be done. I have the impression, on the basis of Mr. Van Tigchelt of your firm, that this project has not been completed. Yet, there are 300,000 euros in the air. Why exactly? In order to do so, royal decrees are still to be consulted. Minister, you're here, we're asking you questions. You can give encrypted answers. I'd like to go check with the Belgian Monitor. But that is the peculiarity of a parliamentarian: he can ask a minister questions. The minister must give answers. Otherwise, everyone can consult the Belgian Monitor. I will come back to you with more precise questions, and hoping for more precise and precise answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u59	Madam Chair, I will also be long in my reply, given the length of the minister's response. Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. First of all, I understand that the coaching project has been supported, in view of its objective of supporting the victims. This is obviously a very good thing. But I think that in doing so, we must go to the end of the process and therefore ensure that we support all the victims. V-Europe as Life4Brussels were both recognised by royal decree. They both set up a group of lawyers. On the other hand, there is a fairly fundamental difference between the two associations. Life4Brussels has brought nearly 300 cases before the Commission for financial assistance to victims, which is not the case for V-Europe. Therefore, I do not understand the difference in treatment that exists today between these two associations, to the detriment in particular of Life4Brussels, especially since the granting of subsidies to associations supporting the victims of attacks is one of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry which we must follow. For the rest, many questions remain on the table regarding the content of this coaching project: the training of coaches, the sufficient number or not of two coaches for all victims, the fact that access to a coach would be reserved for the most serious cases. How will we assess the seriousness of the case, whether or not it would give rise to coaching? There is also the question of the role of these coaches. According to V-Europe, their role would be to help victims fill out forms to apply for victims to insurance, mutual societies, hospitals, Medex, etc. However, as we have discussed, most of these steps are not possible today, since the deadlines for doing so have expired. So I have a little misunderstanding about that. Finally, on the question of the legal time limit for the submission of applications, I feel on your part a certain closure of our proposal, which has long been issued by the victims and their representatives, to extend the time limit to three years from the recognition of the event as such of terrorism, as today, but also at the latest the three-year time limit from the date on which it was finally decided by a decision which was in force res judicata. This would take into account the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 14 February 2019 which had prompted the legislator to put an end to the discrimination according to which the time limit for the occasional rescuer to apply for assistance to the commission began to run on the day of the act of violence and not on the date of the decision in force of res judicata, as for the direct victim. It therefore seems to me that here it is not a question of introducing new discrimination but rather of putting an end to discrimination against victims of terrorist acts. It would also allow us to take into account the needs of the victims. Either because the victims, when the deadline for submitting applications expired and when they had not been informed of its importance, were not included as such in the lists, or because these victims are faced with new needs. Even more than three years after the facts, there are needs that may relate to their physical and mental health, but also to the judicial procedure that is still under way. This is a fundamental aspect that must be taken into account, particularly in view of the backlog of our courts and tribunals, but also of the long period that is still needed to allow the sitting court to rule in this trial. The latter is truly an out-of-standard trial. I thank you for your answers, but I would have hoped for a greater openness on your part in relation to the needs that need to be met today for these victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u60	Minister, Interpol has recently been working with a new database, I-Familia, to locate and identify missing persons. That database can enter the DNA of family members of missing persons. The database checks if they're related to any of the unidentified bodies that are waiting for identification all over the world. Until now, the missing person's DNA had to be used itself, which is not obvious. Internationally, much is expected from this database. When it was launched, for example, an Italian was immediately identified. So it will clearly be a very interesting tool for looking up missing persons. However, our country cannot participate in this because our legislation does not allow it. The Belgian databases are managed by the Justice Department and not by the police. Apparently, they're not legally allowed to exchange data with police databases. Minister, what initiatives will you take to ensure that our country can participate in this new Interpol database as soon as possible? The National Institute of Criminology and Criminalism has announced that they will study how our country can still participate. Have you consulted on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u61	Colleague, it is important that we can use the most modern research techniques, but we must always check whether this is in line with our privacy and with the fundamental rights and freedoms of our citizens. The NICC has been managing the national DNA database Missing Persons since 1 July 2018. Three types of profiles are recorded in this DNA database. First, profiles, drawn up on the basis of unknown bodies. Secondly, profiles of traces of a missing person, e.g. a tooth or a hairbrush. Third, profiles of relatives of a missing person. The NICC compares these profiles daily at national level. At international level, all profiles of unknown bodies and traces of a missing person are automatically and daily exchanged with 22 European countries, with which Belgium is Prüm operational. For technical reasons and privacy reasons, the relation of missing persons cannot be compared with other countries via Prüm. At present, these traces can only be compared on a case-by-case basis and on a one-off basis with other countries, to the specific demand of a Belgian magistrate through a European research warrant. However, I-Familia, managed by Interpol, provides for the possibility of automatically comparing relatives of a missing person internationally. It seems like a powerful tool to identify unknown bodies from all over the world. Since the National Institute of Criminalism and Criminology, the NICC, manages the Belgian DNA database for missing persons, it, in consultation with my cabinet, studies the scientific and legal possibilities in the context of the current DNA law. On this basis, the NICC is developing a concrete proposal on how Belgium could participate in I-Familia. This will be submitted to all involved partners, namely the federal police, the federal prosecutor's office, the DNA expertise cell of the College of Attorney General and my cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your rather technical answer. It is also a very technical matter. We both agree that it does seem like a very powerful tool. Fortunately, you have already begun to study the possibilities of participating. Do you have any insight into the timing? When will Belgium be able to participate in this interesting project?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u63	I'll let you know in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u64	Minister, the media has told us that your government is preparing to repatriate some IS terrorists. On the opportunity of this measure, you know the N-VA position. Judge them over there. Leave them there, where they committed the acts of terror, or at least have been part of it. But you are of a different opinion. That's why I have a few questions. Exactly how many people are being repatriated? How many of them are under international arrest orders? How many of them were already convicted in absentia? How is it estimated whether the women in question are still IS supporters and whether they pose a potential danger to our society? What happens to the ISIS women and their children as soon as they land? What's the cost of this whole operation? Why exactly is this operation taking place? Have you considered the option to try them over there? What steps have you taken in this regard? Why does this slope seem to be off the track? The Prime Minister also said that we are setting up a tribunal there to try them, but that is no longer the case. So I'm curious to hear your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u65	Thank you, Mr Metsu, for your continued attention in this difficult safety dossier. We discussed this last time in the committee of 17 March 2021 following the decision of the National Security Council to create, in the interests of our country's security, the possibility of recovering children under 12 years of age and their mothers after an individual threat analysis by the competent services. To answer your last question, for all FTFs, we continue to strive for a trial for the crimes committed by them. Of course, the slope of a trial on the spot remains the preferred one. To date, there is no prospect of a breakthrough in the case trial on the ground by the Kurds or by the Iraqis. In the interests of the country's security and in the interests of mostly very young Belgian children on the ground, taking into account the precarious humanitarian and security situation in the camps, it became inevitable to look at other slopes. The slope of the trial is a difficult slope, but know that in the margins of the European Council for Justice on Monday 7 June 2021, I consulted some members of the Corps Seven Group, in particular Denmark and Sweden. I also spoke to terror coordinator Gilles de Kerchove about it. At the moment, there is no breakthrough in sight. But we insist on that. I can indeed confirm that in recent days there has been a mission on the ground to implement the decision of the National Security Council. What kind of mothers are we talking about? Did these mothers renounce jihad ideology? Are they willing to give up children? What kids are we talking about? Can the pedigree band be established? Do they have Belgian nationality? How are these kids? All these questions will have to be answered by this mission, and those answers will of course be published at some point. Your question about the cost of the operation must be put to the colleagues of the Defence and Foreign Affairs: that is not within my competence. On the basis of this preparatory work, a decision can be taken on individual cases. The number of children and how many mothers can be repatriated will be communicated in due course. As far as mothers are concerned, you know that they will be taken into custody, either as part of the execution of the sentence or as part of an international arrest mandate of the investigating judge. For the children, the appropriate measures will be taken by the juvenile court or the juvenile court. Once again, you know how this goes: over the past few years, several mothers and different children have already returned from the jihadist conflict zone, mostly via Turkey. In total, since we are faced with the phenomenon of Syrian fighters, 125 FTFs have been involved, some 30 women and some 40 children. We have therefore built up a great deal of experience over the past few years. You also know that many of these FTFs, including women in the camps, have already been condemned in absentia. Since the start of the terrorist crisis, more than 470 people have been convicted of terrorist offences in our country, and for the others there is an international arrest mandate from the investigating judge.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u66	Minister, I have waited my turn patiently. You pass eight or ten minutes in your answers. When it comes to difficult questions, I have the impression that you want to get rid of it quite easily and quickly. I didn't get any concrete answers. Of course, I'll keep knocking on that nail. What you keep quoting and repeating is that it is in the interests of our national security. And then I would like to put two cases: ISIS terrorist Noura Firoud, you know, returns and is sentenced; after five months of imprisonment she is free again, even without electronic supervision, without an ankleband. This week we read in the newspaper that a terrorist leader who was sentenced to ten years in prison a few years ago is once again released on conditions. Is that all in the interests of our national security? I've just had a little bit of time and I've written down a few things loosely. Minister, in the past very short period of time you have managed to grant prisoners corona leave, to subsidise an organization whose French partner was banned because of Muslim extremistism, to appoint a lady with a headscarf as government commissioner at the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and to decide that the guarantee fund for the victims of terrorism is no longer an item because of no budget. And a little later, you'll decide to bring those IS supporters back from terrorists, because apparently there's enough money for that. What's next? I'd like to suggest you go down again. Remember your time as mayor, among the people, among the people. Then you know what's alive, what's going on, what our people want. That's not that little anthology of your last decisions I just made. Close to the people, from Kortrijk to Virton. The fight against terror, and I repeat the words of a victim of terror, is first and foremost won by being there for its victims and not for its perpetrators, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u67	Madam President, Mr Segers, thank you for your question. The finality of the medical examination, as we see in the programme law of 24 December on unaccompanied minors, is to have a doctor check whether a person is more or less than 18 years old and appoint a guardian in case of minority. The 2018 European Asylum Support Office describes a multidisciplinary approach. This document is a practical guide to age studies, not a binding document. It brings together a series of existing practices in EU countries, showing that almost all Member States are carrying out age medical examinations. In addition to chronological age, the multidisciplinary approach described in the EASO Guide takes into account other aspects such as the needs of young migrants, psychological development needs and cultural and environmental factors. In other words, that is a different finality from determining the actual age of majority or minority. This presupposes in-depth interviews by qualified staff with these young people. The Voogdij Service does not take any steps to develop such multidisciplinary age research. Moreover, I am not aware of any scientific study that states that on the basis of conversations it can be determined whether a person is more or less than 18 years old. This is always a very subjective interpretation. Psychoaffective tests are not able to make this distinction, since they check the maturity of a person. This was also confirmed by the Order of Healers. Moreover, the Civil Code provides for specific protection measures for persons with specific needs, such as serious mental retardation. So no multidisciplinary research as in the EASO Guide, but the medical age studies already combine a radiography of the wrist, the collarbone and an ortopantomagram, the so-called triple test. They apply standard standards up to two and a half years. The lower limit of the margin of error is always used to determine whether someone is more or less than 18 years old. This method is seen internationally as the best method available at present. Studies are being carried out in several university hospitals, including those of the KULeuven and Ghent University, to refine the method of age assessment. The Voogdij service continues to follow these evolutions. In addition, the Voogdij service bases itself on all the elements available: the documents of the young person, his statement at home or abroad, observation reports from reception centres or guardians. The documents are examined for their truthfulness by the FPS Foreign Affairs or the Federal Police Department, Counterfeiting False Documents. Where there is a favourable opinion and a reasonable deviation from the lower limit of the medical examination, priority shall be given to the document. The Voogdijk department respects most of the procedural conditions as described in the documents. The principle of the benefit of the doubt is applied, but if one is considered a minor during the investigation then one is taken into care centres and informed about the age study. They're giving their consent to the investigation. No medical examination shall be carried out in the event of refusal. The age study is conducted by qualified professors, doctors and dentists. One can appeal against the decision to the Council of State. New elements are always examined by the Voogdij department. Current practice is effectively in line with legislation and international recommendations. The Voogdij Service takes sporadic knowledge of practices abroad. Anglo-Saxon countries are generally opposed to the medical scientific approach in principle and rely only on their own practices, which have not been proven to be reliable. In France, a medical age study has recently been introduced into the law in order to avoid abuse. In the Netherlands, on the basis of external characteristics, the police can easily consider a person to be of age without further investigations. In Germany, however, there are differences between regions and they are very strict in the use of X-rays. The Voogdij department has set up an advisory board led by experts from KUL and UGent to improve the current medical age assessment and ensure that all hospitals conduct these investigations in the same way. In general, the method is the same everywhere, namely the triple test, but there are differences. The Advisory Council has been postponed for the known reasons. We're looking at the possibility of taking this back in the fall. I think I have answered all your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u68	At first sight, Minister, I am a little surprised by this answer. After all, I read the policy paper of Secretary of State Mahdi, which states that this government would be working on a multidisciplinary age study. That is something other than what already exists. I wonder what the relationship is between your words and that policy paper. I understand that you believe that these EASO Guidelines have a different finality. I will continue to inform you about this. In any case, I understand that the practice abroad is already quite clear, that the margin of error is also limited and that it would indeed offer an alternative to what exists in Belgium. You know that the royal decision on custody refers to that multidisciplinary age clause. I think that there is certainly room for manoeuvre in putting these provisions into practice. I'll be in touch and I'll be sure to come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u69	Madam President, Minister, you know that the Supreme Court of Justice has made a number of recommendations on the Julie Van Espen case. The Supreme Court has sent a letter very recently, including to us, the committee members, in our capacity as legislators, asking for a state of play on the recommendations and asking for them to be transposed into legislation. You will also know that many of the recommendations made at the time cannot all be implemented through legislation. This must also be done politically. There are a number of points that need to be addressed in policy terms, including by the executive. I suspect that the letter asking about the state of the recommendations has also come to your cabinet and that the letter will also ask about any progress that might or might not have been made by your department in the meantime. We agreed in committee that everyone would try to answer the questions. I have some homework for you in this matter, which is why I have the following questions. Firstly, have you or have you not received the same questions from the Supreme Court of Justice at the level of your powers? Have you drawn up an answer yet? Can we know the answer? This is, after all, relevant to what should be done in policy terms anyway? We can find out about the legislation ourselves. Can you also indicate which recommendations have already been fully implemented at government level and which have not? Are there any recommendations you do not wish to implement? If so, why would that be?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u70	Madam President, Mrs De Wit, we have indeed received the same question from the Supreme Court of Justice. We have been given time until 28 June 2021. Our answer will be sent soon. Of course, the answer can then be shared with the committee members. In reply to your second question, it is too early in the legislature to have fully implemented recommendations. I promised in my policy statement and policy paper that we would regard the approach to sexual violence as a top priority. We are doing the same, not least through the reform of sexual criminal law. I hope to be able to present the draft law to you in the Justice Committee at the end of June 2021. It will then depend on Parliament how quickly we can implement the recommendation. We have received the opinion of the Council of State and are in the process of finalising the text. We are also strengthening the focus on the victims. We are already actively working on the following recommendations. The first recommendation is to ensure that the conditions continue to apply until a final ruling is reached. We actively support the proposed bill of 27 February 2020 amending the law of 1990 on pre-trial detention as regards the deadlines for the conditions imposed in case of conditional release, in the hope that the proposal will be able to go through the parliamentary procedure as soon as possible. In order to ensure regular reporting, we will refer to the next IMC Justice Houses, as the possible introduction of the bill should be done in consultation with the Communities. The next recommendation is compulsory treatment behind closed doors in the case of sexual offences. We have already received several critical opinions on this matter, all of which say that this is not in line with the Constitution. We will now hold further consultations on how to amend Article 190 of the Code of Criminal Procedure with respect for the Constitution. A discussion with the Supreme Court of Justice has also shown that they share the same concern with regard to this recommendation. The third recommendation is to enable the combination of adequate penalties and to add the penalty of treatment imposed to the Criminal Code. The discussions on the draft of book I of the Criminal Code are under way, with the treatment imposed in the draft texts being recorded. The next recommendation is to promote joint research into a suitable risk assessment tool. The risk assessment tool is part of the project of vulnerable people and is in full development. By the end of June, the following cases would have been completed: a report partner council of the local police, report partner council of the correctional prosecutor, repeat risk. In a subsequent phase, we will feed the system as much as possible, so that risk assessment can be further refined. Another recommendation is a proactive and understandable communication with the victim. In the event of a decision to dismiss, this should be automatically communicated to all victims immediately. We would like to go one step further and see how we can achieve a better wording to explain to victims why they have been dismissed. The victim has nothing to do with the cold stamp... for lack of evidence. I would like to consult with the College of Attorney General to see if we can possibly solve the problem through a COL. The next recommendation seeks to clarify which assistance is available to those concerned and to facilitate access to this assistance. We will see if a single website is possible. The website of the Victims' Fund must indeed be clearer, more centralised and more easily navigable. At the level of the Institute for Equality between Women and Men, a project is already under way to centralise all websites on one site. If we can cooperate on this, we will. In addition, the debate or the possibility of granting the victim the right to express himself as a probationary measure should be determined to the extent that they concern him or her. We will certainly take this recommendation to heart in the further work on the Criminal Enforcement Code. The victim's place in the sentence could be better. A final recommendation is to encourage the lawyer to follow a thorough education in the field of sexual violence. We will consult with the two orders to see to what extent a training of sexual violence can be given during the professional placement, as well as for the lawyers of the Legal Second Line Assistance Office. As far as your last question is concerned, it is still too early to make a final statement on this matter. As far as possible, we want to implement the recommendations, insofar as they are budgetaryly feasible and have broad support. Let us be thorough here, because the recommendations have an impact on many different actors in the Justice Department. Consultation is therefore crucial. Recommendations can only be implemented if there is broad support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u71	Minister, I would like to ask you once again to slow down. The interpreters can't translate it that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u72	Please excuse me, the answers are sometimes very long.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u73	Minister, it is sometimes impossible to write down the answers and see what remains. I'll read the report. You mentioned risk assessment reports by the end of June. There was also a request to set up a crossroads bank, but I do not think you have said anything about it. However, that is essential because today we see that unfortunately the figures are still missing too often. A crossroads bank is an essential fact, because measuring is knowing if one wants to conduct policies. Services must be able to communicate with each other and information must be shared. One must be able to measure what works and what doesn't. That was one of the recommendations, but I do not think it has been addressed. I realise that many of the recommendations require a great deal of work and that there is still much work to be done. If you formulate the answer to the Supreme Court of Justice, especially for purely policy-making matters, I am counting on you to keep us informed so that we can follow it up. For us, the limit is within the workings of the committee, which is to legislate and control you. So it would be nice if you could give us that overview.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u74	I'll get you that answer. I will also look into what happened to the recommendation on the crossroads bank and let you know in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u75	Madam President, Minister, I am a little confused, but that can of course also be my fault. At the Council of Ministers on 4 June, so last Friday, you submitted a draft royal decree, and it was also approved, extending some measures to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. This is now before the Council of State for advice. You would like to extend many measures until 30 September. It is about the functioning of justice and the courts and so on. It is logical in itself that you should ask for an extension of this. There is, however, one issue I am very concerned about, namely the prison system. In the outside world, everything is beginning to open up again. By the way, today is a crucial day. We are picking up the thread of normal life more and more. However, I read in the royal decree that you also want to extend the measures to combat the health crisis in prisons until 30 September. When it comes to a number of measures within the prison walls, I can even understand that very well, but some of these measures also have consequences outside the prison walls. I'm thinking about the execution. Whose punishment is already being carried out and whose is not? Who should apply and how? You know that a lot of things were postponed and postponed. Of non-urgent convictions, the punishments were not carried out and so on. As normal life is gradually re-emerging, there are far fewer arguments today to depart from punishments that were ultimately imposed by a judge on the basis of a royal decree. A few days ago, I received the new COLs from the College of Attorneys General, which apparently realizes that it is time to start taking everything back in terms of execution. The College has sent out a COL saying that this letter 7a from 2020 will no longer be implemented from 4 June. From now on, the punishments must be carried out back. So the College actually contradicts your draft royal decree on that point. The College says the entire delay must be overtaken by December. I come to my questions, Minister. It is important that we know what needs to be done inside and outside the prison walls and what the current state of health is. Do you know the percentage of penitentiary officers and inmates who have been vaccinated? Has everyone been vaccinated by now? How many people were tested positive? As soon as we have a better view of the health situation, we can examine what measures need to be taken. Has the extension to 30 September of the early release and the interruption of the sentence been approved by the Council of Ministers? In fact, the COL of the College of Attorneys General states the opposite. How can you rhyme those two elements? I am confused and that may be up to me, but if you renew the measures, I do not see how the deadline of 1 December 2021 set by the College to catch up is still feasible. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u76	Mrs De Wit, first of all, staff can be vaccinated voluntarily in one of the ten vaccination centres set up at the penitentiary facilities for this purpose. They can also be vaccinated in the vaccination centre of their region. We only have the vaccination data of staff who have been vaccinated in the ten vaccination centres. I cannot, therefore, give an overview of the total number of employees who have been vaccinated, because some of them are being vaccinated outside, but also because the vaccine may be refused. In the meantime, every member of staff has been given the opportunity to be vaccinated at least once. By the end of the month, every staff member will have had the opportunity to be fully vaccinated. An extra moment has also been added to give people who missed the first round a second chance. Secondly, on 8 June, 3,518 inmates, 33% of the penitentiary population, received a first dose of the vaccine and 641 inmates have already received a second dose. If everything goes according to the current schedule, all prisoners will have received two vaccinations by the end of July. Thirdly, more than 1,200 prisoners were tested positively on COVID-19, since the beginning of the pandemic. Staff are not legally obliged to inform the employer that they are covidpositive. So we don't have any figures on the number of contaminations of the staff. On June 2, 26 staff were quarantined because of corona. Fourthly, last Friday's Council of Ministers indeed approved the extension of the following corona measures relating to the prison system. Firstly, the early release until 30 September, the interruption of the sentence until 15 October and the possibility of suspending the various measures until 30 September, but this possibility should only be used if it is absolutely necessary. The extension of the Royal Decree is now before the Council of State for its opinion. The extension is motivated by the fact that the end of the corona pandemic is not yet fully in sight and that the vaccination campaign in the prison system has been launched but will not be completed by 15 July. For example, in order to manage the health crisis in prisons, it is necessary not to increase the concentration of the prison population. It is true that the College of Attorneys-General has taken a letter to lift the directives of the College of Attorneys-General on the suspension of the execution of certain convictions during the corona crisis. The College of Attorneys General, in consultation with the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions, decided to start the execution of sentences of up to three years, as this concerns a category of convictions, the vast majority of which, in accordance with a 2013 Ministerial Letter, will receive a decision granting electronic surveillance and may be suspended pending a connection with the anklet. The impact on the concentration of prisons is still relatively low, while the implementation of the law on the external legal status of those sentenced with sentences of up to three years is already under way. For the implementation of penalties between three and five years, the re-launch of the implementations has in any case been made conditional on the non-extension of the corona measures. With regard to the suspension of the exit permit, penitentiary leave and limited detention, I can say that the suspension of limited detention was already lifted on 20 January. The suspension of the exit permit and penitentiary leave is still possible in the Royal Decree because the prisoners have not yet been vaccinated and because we cannot assess all the effects either. However, the Royal Decree only provides for the Minister to suspend it. At the moment, I have no intention of taking a new ministerial decision after the end of June. In practice, therefore, it will be possible to re-allow night-time permits and penitentiary leave. I would also like to point out that there is already an exception which allows management to allow punctual night-time permits and penitentiary leave necessary in the context of probation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u77	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Suddenly I get a light because I understand it much better now. Since the entry into force of the draft has been postponed, it is of course interesting to start to implement all penalties under three years quickly, because they can easily be transposed as they are not yet covered by the more stringent draft. That is where the magical limit lies to ensure that the punishment is carried out at 18 months. So it has been handled conveniently, but you know our position on this. The health crisis is essential, including for the inmates and the penitentiary staff, and I fully agree with that. However, you also know that I believe that punishment is a key task for this government. There are fewer and fewer reasons to hide behind corona to focus less on it, as has happened in recent months. When the doors of the residential centers closed, the prison doors opened. Now the doors of all the centres are reopening, even those of the cultural centres. For me it is therefore time for the prison doors to close again in a correct and safe way. That must be done because punishment is a punishment and a judge has imposed it for certain reasons. So it's crazy if we keep using all the systems to hollow it out. So I'm gonna wait and see, especially for the punishments of more than three years. We will certainly follow up on this, you know our concerns in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u78	Dear colleague, since these are somewhat different questions, my services have asked for a separate answer. Detainees who are released after their first injection receive a certificate from the local medical service. With this certificate, they must make an appointment with their doctor, so that they may be given a second injection in an external vaccination centre. The procedure is the same for prisoners who, after their first injection, have been placed under electronic supervision or have received an interruption of sentence. Detainees released, on probation or under electronic surveillance, who have not yet received their first injection, must register as a free citizen in a vaccination centre. If their age category has already passed, they must contact their general practitioner who can still have them registered. The detainee may submit a certificate of detention in support of such registration. As far as inmates are concerned, the local medical service collects all the information about their vaccination status. This includes the type of vaccine, the date of vaccination, the lot number. The collected data should be transmitted to the vaccination team on the first day of vaccination that follows. Prisoners incarcerated after receiving their first injection outside the prison will receive the second injection in the institution. If they have been vaccinated with the Pfizer vaccine, this is no problem, the second Pfizer vaccine can be given in prison. If they received Johnson & Johnson's vaccine, it's not a problem either, because only one injection is enough. If they have received another vaccine, the medical service will contact the external vaccination centre to recover the second vaccine and administer it to the prison. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that we will, of course, ensure that all prisoners are vaccinated. In response to your second question, following the decisions of the Consultation Committee, the regime of visits and activities in prison is extended. The current health situation and the ongoing vaccination campaigns allow us to take a step towards the normalization of the functioning of prisons, of course respecting the preventive and hygiene measures that remain indispensable. In the light of the measures to be taken, prisons are requested to introduce such flexibilities between 10 and 14 June 2021. The relaxation concerns table visits, child-parent visits, unsupervised visits, sports activities and other collective activities. Table visits are allowed with a maximum of three visitors, regardless of their age. These visitors must not always be the same and physical contacts are allowed. Food and drinks at the table are also permitted in accordance with hygiene and practical organization instructions. The same applies to child-parent, group visits accompanied by external services. These measures are accompanied by the necessary ventilation of the visiting rooms and the systematic disinfection of the chairs and tables. Unsupervised visits are allowed again. However, the detainee is placed in quarantine after the visit and undergoes a co-vid test from day 7 after the visit. It remains in quarantine until the result is known and negative. Indoor sports activities, provided they take place within the prison bubble, can take place again. Finally, other collective activities can again be organised within the limits of health restrictions on the capacity of common spaces. These easing measures were communicated to each institution on 8 June. They had previously been submitted to the prevention service and communicated to the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u79	Mr Minister, first of all with regard to vaccination, I am pleased to hear that we have thought about what needs to be put in place for those who are out of prison or who are receiving an electronic surveillance sentence or an interruption of sentence so that they can benefit from their second dose of vaccine, and that we have taken into account those prisoners who are in prison and who would need a vaccine that is not normally given there. I would stress that the real success of the vaccination campaign will depend on the inclusion of all the public, especially the most vulnerable, including the detainees. I hear your willingness to vaccinate prisoners as quickly as possible, but I still have the impression that, in terms of the schedule, the delay is due to the rate of vaccination outside. With regard to the relaxation of health measures, I am pleased to hear that they will be put in place in the coming days. However, to communicate to the prison authorities two days before it seems to me late. I wonder about this late communication of health protocols. You explained that a quarantine was to be observed after the visits, on day 7. I ask myself the question of the absence of the use of rapid tests. These rapid tests are available and have a legal basis. Why not make more use of it to avoid quarantine and its effects on inmates? Maybe it's an open question. I don't know if you can answer me. Otherwise, I will reintroduce a new question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u80	Mr Van Hecke, it is not because my answer will be short that your questions would be less important. You know that your questions relate to an ongoing investigation that I cannot and cannot say anything about. The prosecution started an investigation on 11 May of this year, following a complaint received by a citizen. A comprehensive hearing of the complainant has taken place to confirm the complaint and to obtain more information. In the meantime, several orders were issued in the context of the ongoing criminal investigation, on which no further communication can be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u81	Minister, I know of course that you cannot go into more detail. All I can do is check if the parole board's working on it, if there's any research going on or anything. I know that there is not much more to be said about the current state of the proceedings, but the fact that a complaint has been lodged and that it has been started is already a first step in the information. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u82	Some questions weren't asked. If we have not heard from the questioners, they will lapse. We've run out of questions for today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic509x.u83	I apologize for reading some of the answers too quickly. I'll make my life better.
