ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u1	Mr President, this afternoon our group chairman, as you suggested last week, raised my concerns about the organisation of work at the Conference of Presidents. What's it about? Last week I was surprised and angry that the committee could only last until 17 hours, while there were more than 70 questions. Today would be even worse. The Minister only had until 4.15 p.m. today. Thanks to your mediation, she'll stay until 5:30. So this week we would have had two hours of her precious time. Her time is indeed precious, but so is ours. We are extremely hampered in our work: if we do not get answers to our questions, we will not be able to go on with our dossiers. Then I look back to the past with a little homesickness, when members of the government were still at the service and at Parliament's disposal. This week the Minister can only be with us for three hours. I hope we can finish the agenda. But it is becoming more and more, as you rightly point out, Mr President. It could be an option to put them in writing and then get a reply by email or by letter. I'd rather not, because we look each other in the eye when we're debating pertinent matter. Mr Ingels converted an oral question into a written question three weeks ago and is still waiting for her answer. The current mode operandi is no longer possible. This has clearly been passed on to the Conference of Presidents. I think everyone should start thinking and treating each other with the necessary respect, in whatever capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u2	I can back up your words. Members of Parliament have the right to a more rapid reply from the Minister to pressing oral questions. In addition, we need to consider an amended Rules of Procedure in or outside the Conference of Presidents. There are a lot of oral questions that are presented without assessment in a committee, but which may as well be put in writing. We must also take this element with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u3	Mr President, you mention the Conference of Presidents, in which I sit as chairman of the political group and in which I have also just taken part again. I have already raised the issue there and I would like to give it back to the government: late response to written questions motivates us to put oral questions. It's an interaction. If the government is rushing to answer the written questions, the oral agenda could indeed be considerably relieved. So the ball is in the government's camp. After all, we would be submitting a lot of questions in writing. Not Minister Verlinden, but Minister Vandenbroucke said two weeks ago that a question from me had not been forwarded to him, and he suggested that they should be answered in writing. He'd do that in a hurry; I'm still waiting for it. It behoves Minister Verdeinden that she usually answers questions in a fairly detailed manner. I mean it. She consistently goes through the questions and answers them. That's commendable. The result is that it takes a long time and that it condemns itself to a long presence here. I very much appreciate that detail, but that medal has a downside. Jan Jambon once sat in your seat and he was regularly complimented by Jean-Marc Nollet, Chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, for being very long and widely available for oral questions. That's a good example. We will therefore congratulate you in great detail from the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u4	Mr President, I agree with some of the comments made by my colleagues. Perhaps we could consult the minister on this as she is making herself available and her answers are often very comprehensive, but very long, which is detrimental to our agenda, which is often very long as well. Could we not agree with her, on the basis of her agenda, to a meeting once a month that would last longer than 5 p.m.? Together with other ministers, we were used to sittings until 7:00 p.m. sometimes. For my part, if this allows me to receive a quick answer to some of my questions, I am prepared to stay longer in committee for an oral question-and-answer session. However, we should probably review our internal organisation, whether it be for this committee or for others. In general, in the interior, our agendas are very long when it comes to questions/answers with the minister. We know that we need some answers urgently. I myself do not always turn my questions into written questions because we know that we will have to wait three to four weeks for an answer that is due to the sometimes very hot news of police areas, emergency areas or demonstrations, etc. Let us see with the minister whether it is possible to schedule a meeting from time to time that would be longer in order to gradually re-settle our agenda and, through the Conference of Presidents, propose a new way of organizing ourselves on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u5	Ms. Song, this is a good suggestion, but we must also take into account the minister's agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your comments. I am, of course, open to any suggestions to improve my role in this committee, so if we can think about that together, I am delighted to do so. Mr Metsu, you will forgive me if I find your speech regrettable, because you give the impression that I would not be available to Parliament. Week after week I get some 80 questions presented here, but there is indeed only a certain time frame available for that. Also today there are a lot of things on the shelf. It is therefore not a question of not wanting to be available, but simply of having to combine a number of things. I also note that the question that is put orally takes back the question I have received in writing and I know it, which, of course, also takes time. I do not think that is a problem, but the question arises as to what impact that has on availability and time use. You say that Mrs Ingels has not yet received an answer, but, as your colleague says, we are making a point of answering the written questions in good time. There are deadlines for that. Of course, we are trying to do so as quickly as possible, but I would like to end the misunderstanding that I am late with that written reply, because that is not the case. Today there are 111 questions ahead, including topical debates. There is indeed an urgent meeting at the Prime Minister's office today at 4.30 p.m., so I think that is why there is a mention of something like 4.15 p.m., but I will not go there because I want to remain available for Parliament. That's not a problem. As far as priorities are concerned, I think you will only welcome that. I would also like to continue as long as possible this evening, but I note that a lot of people are only present part-time. It must of course remain a useful meeting so that everyone can capture the questions and answers as well as possible and that the debate can be useful for everyone in the committee. I welcome all suggestions to improve the work with open arms. Let us just think together how we can deal with this moment as efficiently as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u7	I notice there's a lot of good will on all sides.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u8	It's true what the Minister says. Every week she receives 80 questions, but last week only 14 of them were answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u9	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u10	Last week there were 40 or 50 questions left. There are also new questions every week. It also refers very often to the questions put in writing. That was not the case in the previous legislature. Then we had to present our questions here, wait for an answer, give a reply. It was then that the Minister stayed until 19 or 20 hours, and sometimes even 21 hours, until the agenda was finished. I am very grateful that you give this priority today and also acknowledge us in our role. There are 111 questions. I suggest that we fly into it, but I absolutely could not resist making this valid comment for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u11	We'll leave it at that. I see the good will of everyone. We'll get out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u12	Madam Secretary, you probably read in De Standaard today the opinion piece "Does the rule of law need to be ventilated later?" Or you heard about it on the radio this morning. The content is in line with what the N-VA has been advocating for months. The social debate on this also sounds louder and louder. The writers of letters, who come from the legal profession, rightly remark: "In the democratic rule of law, such temporary restrictions of freedom must be established in parliament, or on the basis of clear and uniform criteria laid down by parliament, after the necessary advice has been obtained from the Council of State and other bodies. This cannot be done in the corridors of, for example, the Ministry of the Interior, however sensible and learned the initiators may be." They also write: "We are extremely concerned about this crumbling of the rule of law" and they decide: "The rule of law is suffering from acute oxygen shortages." Those are harsh words, which are the logical consequence of similar findings and analyses. We, as legislators, but you, as executives, must pay attention to this. In addition, President Tillieux received a letter from the government this morning, which was just discussed at the Conference of Presidents. It announces that you will submit the draft pandemic law to us before you send it to the Council of State. A first debate can then take place before the Council of State takes a decision. I am pleased that the government is aware that there is a fundamental question on the table here. I fear a little bit, but you will be able to reassure me on that later that we do not necessarily have a fixed agenda as a result of that letter to Mrs Tillieux. I continue to stress that the illegality of the corona measures calls for a legislative and parliamentary response. The questions I initially asked were addressed to your colleague Van Quickenborne, but he passed them on. I suspect I already know your answer. I shall therefore confine myself to the very specific question of whether you can tell us when the Chamber will receive the text, as you will deliver it to the Council of State. The ministerial decisions you are working with are too shaky a basis, but it is all we have at the moment. I have questions about their shape. They must be consulted by the general public and certainly by professionals in order to know what can and cannot be done. This may be somewhat unclear, as there is always work on the basis of references to the original Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020. In a search for transparency and clarity, I wonder whether there would be any legally undesirable consequences if a completely new ministerial decision were published in the promulgation of new measures and therefore did not have to be puzzled. A coordinated MB would nevertheless be preferable, as this would avoid a great deal of confusion and increase support for the measures. Madam Minister, the Ministerial Decision of 26 January 2021 amending the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 refers to border regions. But in my view, there is no legal definition of the term 'border region'. You also referred to accompanying and explanatory texts in last week's plenary session. With an MB they are slightly less available. There is a European definition of border regions, but that would mean that the inhabitants of the Brussels Warandepark are the only ones who do not live in the border region. Is that the definition of border region? Can you also state very clearly what the difference is between residents of border municipalities and those of their immediate neighbouring municipalities? In Antwerp, for example, we are talking about a southern infiltration in the country. Edegem and Mortsel are border municipalities that way. So I am talking about that category, which is mentioned separately, and about residents of border regions. What can one citizen do more than the other? I have another question to which I have already confronted the Prime Minister and for which I refer again to the Ministerial Decision of 26 January 2021, in which we read: "the travels of diplomats, Minister, Heads of State or Government; the travels of staff of international organisations and institutions and of persons invited by these international organisations and institutions for which the physical presence is necessary for the proper functioning of these organisations and institutions; the travels of staff of diplomatic and consular posts and persons invited by this post, the physical presence of which is necessary for the proper functioning of these posts; the travel of Members of the European Parliament in the context of their duties'. What I want to go to is that travel by diplomats, ministers, Heads of State or Government is apparently not subject to restrictions, because they do not have to be in the context of their duties. So they can do their shopping in Bergen op Zoom in Albert Heijn, to put it equally provocative. The Prime Minister said that this should not be read in this way, but I think that a literal reading of the ministerial decision amounts to that. Could you give us some explanation? In addition to the ministerial decisions published in the Belgian Official Journal and which may attract fewer readers to the general public, we have www.info-coronavirus.be. This is a good initiative that was launched to make those texts available to the wider public. I believe that what is written there is somewhat in conflict with what is stated in the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020, namely: "Every household may receive a maximum of one permanent maintained close contact per six weeks at a time at home or in a tourist accommodation, without prejudice to Article 23. A single person may, in addition to the durable maintenance of close contact referred to in paragraph 1, receive one additional person at home or in a tourist accommodation at another time." www.info-coronavirus.be then reads: "You may have close contact with a maximum of 1 person (hug contact). Are you inviting someone to your house? Every family member may receive 1 hug contact at home." I do not think that this is the correct translation of the ministerial decision, which may also create uncertainty for the public about what is and should not be done now. It's not about a detail. It's the infamous discussion of whether bomba and the bomba are allowed to come together, or bomba is allowed to visit the gentleman at the same time when that bomba goes to visit the lady. I think there is a lack of clarity about that. Finally, as regards the pandemic law, I have just summarised that question. When do you plan to submit your bill? On the letter, however, I shall now make it: "When are you planning to submit your draft bill to this Chamber?"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, my question was put to Mr Dermagne, but it may well have ended up in the Committee on the Interior. This is what she's talking about. Madam Secretary, as you know, take-away meals have become very popular. They give a light form of compensation, if we can name that feeling in that way, for the catering operators. However, it turns out that take-away meals should not be consumed in the car or in the car park of the restaurant. Even people with a motorhome who use those meals hang a fine of 250 euros above their head. In developing certain measures, we must ensure that there is a risk of infection with the corona virus. Sometimes the question can be asked about the meaning or nonsense of certain measures. So a lot of hospitality operators also ask themselves questions about this. Madam Secretary, why is this measure applicable? Are we talking about a gap or forgetfulness, which makes the fine applicable to that too? Do you consider that the measure is lawful and effectively contributes to the reduction of the spread of the coronavirus?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u14	Minister, as stated by the Latin saying that we learn at the university:nulla poena sine lege, no penalty without law. Since March 2020, whether it be through decrees of special powers or then ministerial decrees, the health crisis has in particular – and I say so, in particular – been designed to provide a criminal response. Since then, we have heard many expressions – quite normal in democracy – from academics, legal professionals or journalists. In addition, judicial decisions have either validated – as we have seen with certain decisions of the Council of State – or challenged this method. Most recently, on 12 January, the French-speaking police court in Brussels ruled in this latter sense. There are two aspects to the criticism. First, it notes the inadequacy of the legal basis, namely articles 182 and 187 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007. Secondly, the restrictive interpretation of criminal law does not allow for the determination of criminal conduct, for lack of an explicit definition. In the face of such criticisms and in the light of the unfortunate anniversary of the epidemic – which we would all have hoped to see extinguished long before – two paths are emerging. First of all, we could see courts which, in this case, do not issue erga omnes judgments, invalidating certain individual decisions through article 159 of the Constitution. Secondly, the other term of the alternative would be to legislate. Minister, I assume that you share the idea that the citizen cannot reasonably trust a legal system unless it is fair, fair and consistent. Before we go through one of the two tracks, we have to mark them both – and do so very carefully if we choose the legislative path. Indeed, it would not be necessary to go any further than necessary, nor to extend – according to the common expression – the penal net beyond the time required by the measures. I think these two options deserve debate. There is a legitimate demand for Parliament to take up this debate. Minister, without increasing the penal net, what is the path you intend to take? Do you intend to put these questions to debate in our committee and, more broadly, in our Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u15	Minister, (...) I would like to come back to the Ministerial Order, in Appendix 2 (...) Paragraph 1: Travel for purely professional reasons, including travel by professional athletes with a high level status, professionals in the cultural sector and journalists in the exercise of their professional activity. Paragraph 2: Travel of diplomats, ministers, heads of state and government. A priori, the travel of diplomats, ministers, Heads of State and Government shall be considered essential under point 1. I therefore wonder about the scope of the intention of point 2, which, as it stands, means that all travel by these categories of persons, whether it is business or not, is considered essential. The following points in the same article allow for various types of travel for other reasons (family, studies, humanitarian, etc.).). I would like to know, Madam Minister, what types of travel are covered by point 2? If so, should it be understood that vacation departures of diplomats, ministers, heads of state and government could be considered essential under this item? Finally, what is the justification for the creation of such a derogation based on the profession of these persons, whereas professional travel is already generally authorized and all other authorizations are based on activities and not on professions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to inform you that I cannot agree with the reasoning of the Brussels Police Court in its judgment of 12 January 2021. The successive ministerial decrees on emergency measures to limit the spread of coronavirus are part of the federal crisis management phase and are always deliberated in the Council of Ministers. As I have already explained, the ministerial orders have as their legal basis the Civil Protection Act, the Police Function Act and the Civil Security Act. Each of these laws empowers us to take measures that we consider necessary for the protection of the population, particularly in the context of public order disturbances, including public health – in this case, the danger resulting from the spread of coronavirus. Yesterday, this was confirmed by the Charleroi Correctional Court, which overturned the judgement of an alternate judge in the police court who questioned the legal basis for ministerial orders. A similar judgement was handed down by the Mons Court of Appeal on February 8. The COOVID-19 pandemic, which Belgium is facing, is an unprecedented health crisis. It has led to the adoption of far-reaching measures which have a profound impact on citizens' personal, social and economic lives. The police measures, which are pampered in the Ministerial Decision, are aimed at protecting the fundamental right to life and health. The management of this health crisis requires rapid and targeted action adapted to rapidly changing epidemiological conditions. In the Umami judgment of 30 October 2020, the Council of State held at the General Assembly that the legal bases, as stated, are valid. Furthermore, the General Assembly of the Council of State stated in the Verelst judgment of the same date that the criminalisation under the Civil Security Act complied with the legality principle laid down in Article 14 of the Constitution. The importance of this very clear case-law of our highest administrative court, which has also spoken out in the general assembly, cannot be underestimated, as I explained in the previous weeks in the case of interviews and questions in plenary sessions. The letter from the experts, which was published this morning, is therefore known to me, but it contradicts what the highest administrative court has so far ruled and also what judges have ruled on appeal in respect of other judgments of the police court. The reading is therefore confirmed by the court of appeal against the judges at first instance, which all the more shows that the measures have a sound legal basis. Of course, it's possible to fight rules. This happens not only with corona measures, but also with many other measures. However, the challengeability does not make the applicability of the measures 100% impossible. What we are doing today to write a draft pandemic law must therefore be clearly understood as an addition to the legal basis already in place. In particular, a methodology will be introduced to enable administrative police action to be taken in the event of an epidemic. The draft seeks to strike a balance between, on the one hand, the necessary flexibility in the application of measures, as has already been demonstrated in recent months, and, on the other hand, legal certainty. The measures that can be taken on the basis of the possible pandemic law are similar to those we already know today, based on the necessary fundamental and democratic tests. In any case, a judicial review of such measures will also be possible. I would like to point out that parliamentary control also plays an essential role in a democratic rule of law, and that is all the more true in crisis situations. The role of Parliament is therefore covered in detail in the draft. In this context, I would like to stress that many questions have been answered in this committee, but also in Parliament, taking into account the comments and suggestions made by Members of this House. As far as the idea or impression of insufficient transparency is concerned, I, together with the entire government, have absolutely a desire to clarify and, where possible, strengthen this transparency regarding the management of the crisis in the Chamber, given that the health crisis continues to last for a long time. We therefore believe that this preliminary draft law should be the subject of an in-depth parliamentary debate, which should be able to start as soon as possible. You yourself referred to it, Mr De Roover, for that reason, the Prime Minister today expressed the intention to deliver the text of the preliminary draft pandemic law, which we will then submit to the Council of State, to the Chamber immediately as soon as the government has approved the text at first reading. I am therefore very pleased to be able to present the draft text to this committee shortly. This should make it possible to take note of the sensitivities and suggestions made by Members of Parliament at this stage of the preliminary draft. The government therefore does not, in any way, avoid any debate on the basis of the corona measures or on the corona measures themselves. It involves Parliament rather than any other parliamentary or legislative initiative. This underlines that democratic renewal and transparency are not empty words for this government, and that we will certainly work with this preliminary draft pandemic law in that philosophy. I also agree with you that clear regulation is important. That is why we strive to always draw up clear and high-quality regulatory texts, which clearly reflect the measures. Of course, that's not easy. You referred to it yourself. Such a text requires a great many different activities, contacts and relationships between individuals, but at least we do so with due care. Mr De Roover, we are currently working on amending decisions because each of them involves a limited adaptation of a certain number of articles of the Ministerial Decision. As far as legislation is concerned, it is not appropriate to adopt a completely new ministerial decision on any change to the corona measures where the structure, text and most of the provisions remain unchanged. We have, by the way, consulted on this. In addition, an amending act clearly indicates the changes that have been made because the amending act itself is an exonerating of the changes that have been decided on. Moreover, several other regulatory texts already refer to the Ministerial Decision, in this case the one of 28 October 2020. It should be avoided that all regulatory texts with a reference to the Ministerial Decision need to be adapted too often. Finally, and I would certainly like to draw your attention to this, any new ministerial decision that is being drawn up will de facto mean that the previous ministerial decision will expire completely. Any proceedings before the Council of State in respect of a previous ministerial decision would then be without object, which could give the seeker the impression that new decisions are being taken each time to complicate the course of justice. That seems to me to be an important consideration. As far as the term 'border region' is concerned, it is true that the term is not specifically defined in the Ministerial Decree. It has been considered for a long time and ultimately this choice has been made because the possibility of crossing the border for daily or necessary activities would not only depend on the distance to the border but also on the necessity. For residents of border municipalities and direct neighboring municipalities, a statement of honour is sufficient. As for Mortsel and Edegem, I object to you. These are not border municipalities, but they are neighbouring municipalities of border municipalities. Those who live in a wider border region may cross the border with a declaration to the extent that the need is demonstrated by a plausible proof. According to European definitions, it could indeed be said that Belgium is not a large country and that there are many border regions. That is not the intention, however. What we do understand is that it should be possible for some people who live a little further from the border, but whose doctor lives on the other side of the border, and who have to go there for care. If we were to limit this, it would be difficult and it is not the intention of this rule to make daily and necessary activities impossible. Tourist and recreational trips must be limited. Moreover, there is reciprocity in our neighbouring countries. The same approach also applies to them. For example, anyone who comes here from Luxembourg or Germany for a doctor's visit must also be able to demonstrate that there is a need to do so. This applies not only to border municipalities and neighbouring municipalities. Finally, I would like to stress that, in this context, the border should only be crossed by residents of border municipalities or regions to the neighbouring country for activities that are also permitted in the country of the main residence. Crossing borders for activities that are not allowed in their own country is therefore out of the question. In the annex to the MB on essential travel, it is true that the list of Members of the European Parliament states that only travel in the context of their duties is considered essential. For the other functions it is stipulated that the journey is only permitted if their physical presence is necessary for the proper functioning of the organisation. For the persons referred to in point 2 of Annex 2 to the Ministerial Decree (including diplomats, ministers, Heads of State and Government), it should be noted that the exception is only allowed for the function or role of such persons, as has already been confirmed by the Prime Minister. It therefore does not constitute an authorization for such persons to go on vacation or to travel for other reasons that are not considered essential under the Ministerial Order. It should be noted that in Belgium these people are also obliged to work at home if their job does not require their physical presence, as is the case for other workers in Belgium during this crisis. As regards Article 15a of the Ministerial Decision, it should be stressed that each member of the family may have one hug contact. The different hug contacts may not be invited to the household's home at the same time. The rule is to prevent the cuddly contacts from contacting each other. This was also clarified on the website www.info-coronavirus.be. In view of the precarious epidemiological situation, we must ensure that all the measures in force are respected as regards the consumption of meals at the parking of restaurants. Of course, we support the catering industry and we also welcome any compensation that is still possible. All collection options are possible with respect for the applicable hygiene, sanitary and distance measures, but any type of operation on the AudiTT or in the camper is prohibited. That is exactly what we saw happen, namely that some campers went to the parking lot of a restaurant, where there was service up to the motorhome itself, which is obviously difficult to justify to other catering facilities that are closed for service at the table. The Catering Establishment must also always ensure that measures are taken on crowd control and the management of queues. The meals must be offered in such a way that they can be taken by the customer and used elsewhere, at home or in the hotel room or in the car park, but not with the service by the catering establishment itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u17	Madam Secretary, on a solid legal basis, you refer to the Council of State. If you include the Council of State in your defense, I assume you will do so for everything he says. Well, he regrets that since March 2020 he has not been consulted on a preliminary opinion in this matter. I assume you've read that, too. I would remind you that a judgment of the Court of Appeal of 28 October, almost four months ago, indicates that in March last year it could be said that the legal basis is sufficient, but not anymore. A ruling by the court of appeal has more weight than an opinion document in De Standaard. I would also like to refer to the letter from the Data Protection Authority, which was very well received. That's what the government says about the fact that it's being ignored. So you do not convince me, but you probably didn't mean to. You do not actually answer the question, if it is all so solid, why we still have to worry about a new pandemic law. What can you not do today what you would like to do and what you could do with a pandemic law? In fact, there is still no answer to that question. You say that there is a lot of parliamentary control. No, there are many parliamentary questions, but always afterwards. You say that the text will come here as soon as it is adopted at first reading. I would have liked a date, because we have already had many announcements. President Lachaert van Open Vld said last weekend that the text would be discussed in Parliament before the summer. You announced initial New Year's Eve. In the meantime, we have already moved a long way in February. There's a carrot hanging in front of us, but we're sitting on the donkey ourselves, I get the impression. Then I come to your specific answers as to why the royal decision is not repeated in its entirety. I do not think that it is a good argument that they are only limited changes. The other two, relating to referrals and the proceedings before the Council of State, are and have convinced me. Those are sound answers. As far as the non-definition of the border region is concerned, have I understood you correctly that border municipalities and their neighbouring municipalities are not treated in the same way? You mentioned Mortsel and Edegem, but those borders on Antwerp and that borders on the Netherlands. So I think they're covered by the MB. All right, there will be a third category, border regions, border municipalities and municipalities bordering on border municipalities. As far as the travels of ministers are concerned, you confirm what the Prime Minister says. However, it points to a carelessness in the MB, because that is not the way it is. There is one hug contact per member of the family and they are not allowed to enter the house at the same time. I do not think that is so clear in the MB. On the other hand, the website I referred to does give that impression. So there's tension on that too. Madam Minister, that again shows what the usefulness of parliamentary treatment can be. This can improve the quality of decision-making, as such things can then be taken out before publication. For the quality and transparency of decision-making, too, we believe that a different approach should be recommended.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I understand you can't operate up to the car or the RV. You are right, but on the other hand you have put in such a limit that nothing is possible at all. You might want to maintain certain measures. The hospitality operators find some measures very far-reaching. I think it would have been perfectly possible, because if one eats a meal in one's own bubble or alone in the car or camper, then no contamination is possible. It is not possible to operate, but you should have formulated it differently in the decisions. The provision in this respect creates a great deal of misunderstanding among the public, greatly reduces the level of support and leads to even more disappointment among the catering operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u19	Madam Secretary, in cybercrime there are two categories. In cybercrime, everyone spontaneously thinks of hacking, phishing and other ways in which using computers or other technological means money is being tricked, companies are being hacked with crypto coins and so on. However, that is only one element of the debate in cybersecurity and cybercrime. A second element, the element I would like to present to you today, is that crime moves from the street to the Internet and the digital platforms. More specifically, my question is about the Signal app, actually a glorified version of an app like WhatsApp, but with more security options. The difference is that Signal also contains a function where the user can search nearby in chat groups. You scared the hell out of me when I looked at what I could find through that app a few weeks ago. What I found there really defies all imagination. They are market places that buy and sell almost everything that is illegal, for example drugs in all smells and colors, promoted via videos, as if they were fruit and vegetables. You can also find weapons, fake money appears to be very popular and a stolen iPhone 12 is available for 199 euros. Official driving licences, including Dutch and German driving licences, are arranged within four days at a good price. It is also about registered SIM cards, hacked bank accounts and so on. I quote a screenshot: "If you're looking for someone who has to do revenge, burn someone's car down or worse options, text me. Only large amounts." Or another: "Access badges for PostNL, all depots," together with a photo of both access badges. It gets worse, because someone says they have blackmail drugs for a guy who can make that guy do anything. Hence my concern and my questions to you. Madam Secretary, are your services aware of this problem? Sometimes they talk about no-go zones, areas where the police don't come. Well, this seems to me to be some kind of digital no-go zone, as such things are just being offered out in the open, knowing that no one can fix the provider. Are your services aware of the problem with apps like Telegram and Signal? How many men are specifically involved in patrolling and tracking such crime online? Has the government already tried to address those specific chat groups to the maker of the program? If so, when and how? If not, why not, and is that still possible? Do you consider asking, for example, Apple and Google to remove those apps from the appstore if it turns out that the developers of the app do not contact the government? Similarly, we have seen that the Parliament app was removed from the appstores, so there is indeed the possibility of doing something.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u20	Mr President, you asked a very interesting question, particularly with regard to its second aspect. In my question it is more about the first aspect, on the basis of a number of things that I had read a while ago in Het Belang van Limburg, among others. From that, I could conclude that 2020, the year of the corona crisis, was absolutely a grand cru for cyber criminals. The 14 December edition of The Belang van Limburg published figures of 6 out of 14 Limburg police zones. This showed that more than EUR 5.5 million was swindled, just by citizens like you and me. In addition, there is also a dark number, a number of people who are simply too ashamed or for whom the amount is too low to report. According to calculations made by the Limburg and the police, the amount of 5.5 million euros must therefore be multiplied by a factor of 4 to 5 in order to get a realistic picture of what has been taken from the people, only in Limburg. It's numbers to be swirling with. Victims who lost only 20 euros are more of an exception. Many people even lost tens of thousands of euros. Such conditions destroy many lives of families. Phishing, whaling and scams via second-hand websites are the most popular methods used by perpetrators. Much can be linked to the corona crisis, because the people are now a little more behind their screen. They are also pushed towards the Internet economy by the closure of shops. The lockdown kept us at home, which also made us more likely to spend more hours on the global web. The crooks are also much more professional today compared to a few years ago. Also in 2021 we will continue to make a lot of purchases online. If we don't intervene, we'll make pants out of the same sheet. I have only one specific question, Madam Secretary. Will you increase the capacity of the federal police with the specific task of conducting further investigation and a phenomenon analysis? That is one of the priorities of your National Security Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u21	Mr President, Madam Minister, you are aware that on Sunday 17 January 2021 the CHwapi, the Picardy Wallonia Hospital Centre in Tournai, suffered a large-scale cyberattack which resulted in the impossibility of access to 80 of the 300 servers which enabled the services of the hospital to function properly and whose resolution took many days. The current health crisis makes hospital centres and laboratories particularly vulnerable to such attacks, on the one hand, because of the pressure on these institutions and the use of telework, and on the other, because of the growing interest of hackers in collecting and selling information on covid-19 and its vaccines. Minister, on Monday, January 18, 2021, members of the Computer Crime Unit of the Federal Police (FCCU) travelled to Tournai to support the CHwapi's computer services. Can we receive information about procedures related to the follow-up of such attacks by the FCCU? It has happened to us that cyber attacks of varying degrees of magnitude are frequently observed – and most of the time controlled – by the computer services of Belgian hospital centres. Has the FCCU had to intervene in other hospitals or laboratories since the start of the health crisis? Can we get information about the attention given by the FCCU to this type of phenomenon – which, having occurred in Tournai, is likely to happen again elsewhere in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u22	Minister, in addition to my colleagues' questions, I would simply like to refer to your general policy note, in which you alluded to the investment in specialized profiles and the increase in the annual quorum of specialized chief inspectors to combat this cybercrime to which we have just referred. I come directly to my question. To date, how many specialized Chief Inspectors are you planning to hire? To what numbers can we tend or hope to tend in 2021 with regard to this recruitment? When can these additional staff be hired? Do you know more today about how this recruitment can take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u23	Mr Freilich, Telegram is not unknown to our police forces. After all, several such encrypted communication channels are very attractive to criminals. Telegram users can exchange encrypted and self-destructive messages. In addition, Telegram uses a self-developed cryptographic protocol with a double authentication, in combination with a password. This makes access to the data particularly difficult. Within the federal police, the central management of the fight against serious and organised crime (DJSOC) has a cell on the Internet that detects all kinds of illegal content online, including propaganda for terrorism, radicalism and violent extremism. If necessary, that cell shall contact the different Internet platforms, requesting that the illegal content be removed itself. The cell also searches for research elements on the Internet for the benefit of the entire integrated police force and its partners. This is done in the context of all legal proceedings. Currently, the cell consists of 20 persons and is also present on Telegram as part of her search for illegal content. Telegram accounts are linked to phone numbers verified with a text message. Although access is easy for the general public, police forces must comply with legislation, including the Special Investigation Methods Act (BOM). However, your question about the removal of Telegram from the Apple App Store and Google Play is not within my jurisdiction. Mr Moyaers, Internet crime and security are not only my competence, but also the responsibility of the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister, who is responsible for the Centre for Cyber Security Belgium (CCB). In order to tackle phenomena such as identity fraud, phishing, scams, grooming and extortion, a chain-oriented approach, ranging from prevention to follow-up, prosecution and aftercare, should be used. A strong police presence on the Internet is also part of this. In my policy statement I already indicated that I want to strengthen the operational services on cybercrime with the right profiles, expertise and technology. Collègue Song, each year, the Federal Judicial Police recruits and hires senior specialized inspectors. In 2021, she will hire 90 collaborators for all the specialties. The call for external candidates will be launched in March. In addition to these commitments of operational collaborators, the PJF also invests in specialized administrative and logistical frameworks (engineers, programmers, etc.).). These are employees with highly specialized profiles who will be recruited in the course of 2021. Mr Senesael, support for the cyber attack on the CHwapi Hospital in Tournai is part of the Quick Reaction Force (QRF). This ad hoc team, composed of employees from various federal and regional Computer Crime Units, who have the expertise to investigate cybercrime in complex network environments, can be deployed in serious cybercrime incidents. It should be noted, however, that the FRQ is responsible for the first urgent police operations with a view to safeguarding as much as possible the necessary evidence. Assisting the affected operator in stopping the attack, restoring infected systems, correcting vulnerabilities or restoring the normal functioning of the systems is not the responsibility of the FRQ. Other cybersecurity chain partners such as Crisis Emergency Response Team (CERT) perform such tasks and can assist the operator with corrective and/or preventive measures. The monitoring of serious cyber incidents is part of the cyber contingency plan of the Belgian Cyber Security Centre. Based on the classification of a cyber incident, this plan provides a number of mechanisms to coordinate cooperation and information exchange between the various partners in the cybersecurity chain. QRF support is not a standard procedure but a mechanism that can be activated to provide the necessary specialized police capabilities, if necessary. This does not mean that the incidents you mention cannot be the subject of a judicial investigation by the competent Federal Judicial Police of the district. In the current state of research, it is too early to draw general conclusions or make detailed recommendations. Needless to say, all relevant conclusions that could be used to increase cybersecurity are shared with stakeholders. Such dissemination of information will generally be carried out by CERT. Overall, we have no indication that medical institutions will now be more likely to be the target of cyberattacks than other sectors. Nevertheless, prevention, i.e. investing in cybersecurity and maintaining up-to-date computer systems, is crucial to avoid becoming easy prey for cyber criminals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u24	Mr President, Minister, it is true that the messages are encrypted on Telegram, where it is very difficult to enter. However, I am talking about the chat groups, the chat boxes. They're open to everyone. The police there, at the request of a King's Attorney, I understood that I could answer questions like "I'm on that street now and have drugs, who can deliver me?" One can certainly do something there. I hear 20 people follow that. That sounds like a lot, but that's only two per province. If people know that for the whole province of Antwerp where there are thousands of these messages every week, only two people have to follow that up, then I ask myself questions. I expect a commitment from you anyway, and I haven't heard that. I expect you to acknowledge that there is a problem. I also understand that you will receive a prepared text here from your cabinet to read to you. But I hope that you are aware of the problem, or that I am now making you aware of it and that you are going to make it a priority. The problem is there, is very bad and moves all the way to the Internet. I understand that regular crime has fallen sharply today due to corona. A lot of people are at home, which means the number of home invasions has fallen. Another example, the number of shoplifters has also decreased. Crime, however, is now moving to the Internet. I hope that we can expect you and the whole of the government to take steps there. You say that pleading with Apple or Google is not your jurisdiction. That may be true, but you do have a fellow minister who can just ask you a question. It's a lot harder for me. Then I'll have to wait another four weeks for my question to come up. It is indeed a question of criminality in Belgium. And that's your jurisdiction. If that commitment is there, I am sure you can do what you need to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u25	Mr President, Minister, as Mr Freilich says, crime has certainly moved around, especially during the corona crisis and cybercrime. It is a much easier way to steal much larger amounts. If there is still time for this, perhaps we will continue the debate on this, but I still feel more and more the question of scaling up. Larger police areas with more specialization in the home, and where federal judicial police are also closely involved, are, in my view, a solution. It is good that you want to strengthen operational services with the necessary expertise, as you announced in your policy paper, but there is still a hurry. However, I do not see much light in this area at the end of the tunnel. There are so many today who see their savings disappear through criminal circuits abroad, which ultimately puts our economy at risk. For example, I was told by my own police area a few weeks ago that, in consultation with the prosecution, they can only investigate cybercrime in a few limited cases. The scale increase may not be for today or tomorrow, but I would like to urge that, in the short term, through the federal police, a phenomenon analysis be carried out, regardless of whether it is with an enhanced operational service, which you have just announced, or with the expertise that we already have today. Indeed, there are more than enough data available thanks to local police forces. After all, it is a priority from our National Security Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u26	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers, which have drawn my attention to two points. First, the judicial investigation is under way and its findings can be used wisely to increase the security of the servers used for the proper functioning of the hospital centre. I hope, of course, that these conclusions will go along the lines you point out. Secondly, you say that prevention remains crucial to avoid the recurrence of such incidents. I can share your point of view, but it is still necessary, if not essential, to climb up the chain to discover and, above all, to prosecute the perpetrators of these cyberattacks which endanger the management of our hospitals and that of the CHwapi in Tournai in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased to hear that the call for recruitment will begin next month. That's important, given the urgency of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u28	Madam Minister, it is up to me from the ground that certain police areas have their budgets slashed by the supervisory authorities. The main reason given is the inclusion of inappropriate revenues, including NAPAP subsidies. Ministerial Circular PLP 60 on guidelines for the preparation of the 2021 police budget for use in police areas states that "no NAPAP subsidisation is currently planned for 2021 and therefore no amount can be included in the 2021 budget". However, it is added that "the extension of the NAPAP subside after 2020 is well on the agenda of the next budgetary discussions". In the same vein, on 16 November 2015, you stated that "as such, the right to this regime remains unchanged for the time being, in accordance with the Royal Decree of 9 November 2015, which also remains in force in 2021". And to add that you met on 30 November on this subject with the three Unions of Cities and Municipalities. Minister, it is requested that the NAPAP subside not be included in the budget of the police areas. Therefore, what method should be used by police areas that rely on this subsidy in particular to ensure that their budgets are balanced? What corrections can you suggest they make in order to possibly amend their budget for approval? What instructions have you given to the supervisory authorities? Finally, on what points did you agree with the three Unions of Cities and Municipalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u29	Madam Minister, as my colleague Matz has just described, I will not repeat. In addition, we were able to discuss this topic just a few weeks ago. Can you tell us when the police areas will be informed of your NAPAP subsidy decision? Do you intend to extend this grant? In the meantime, how can police areas be organized in accordance with the directives in force, so that their budgets are approved as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u30	Madam Minister, I can actually give an answer to both previous respected speakers, Mrs Matz and Mrs Chanson, because more than two months ago we tabled a legislative proposal in this area. On 8 December 2020, my colleague Joy Donné and I proposed the draft regulation on the financing of end-of-life measures for local police staff for the year 2021. That scheme only refers to the year 2021, because we fully understand that it is up to the government to provide a structural solution. We do not pretend that we were allowed to take that initiative in your place, but I am speaking as mayor of the local authorities now, it is very important that there be clarity before 2021. We submitted the proposal because no funds for the NAVAP scheme have been entered in the government budget for 2021. Our proposal gives the police zones breathing space and gives you time to work out a structural arrangement. It does not contain a new policy but proposes a pragmatic solution until the end of this year. You stated in the Committee in November 2020 that the Royal Decree of 9 November 2015 would continue to apply for 2021. What Mrs. Matz said is true. In your ministerial letter PL60, you stated that the extension of the NAVAP grant after 2020 would only be on the agenda of the next budget negotiations. We think that's a little late. During the discussion of our legislative proposal on 8 December 2020, all political groups agreed to ask you for an update. It would be urgently requested to obtain it before the end of last year and before the end of the temporary arrangement of NAVAP, as written in the Royal Decree of 9 November 2015. However, we have not yet received any advice at the beginning of February 2021. Could you please give us an update on the NAVAP scheme? Where do you stand on the definition of a new arrangement? How are the police areas supported today for the NAVAP premiums or how are they being saved today? How are the talks with the trade unions on this matter going? As a temporary solution, can you agree to our bill No. 1681, which does not imply a controversial policy, but merely wants to ensure the functioning of our police force for the current year? This also answers an important question that we asked two months ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u31	Mr.President, Minister, this issue has been pending since 2019. It was, in fact, during this period without full-function government that the system put in place by the Royal Decree of 9 November 2015 came to an end, as it aimed at the years 2016 to 2019. As a result, police areas were at risk of ending up on 1 January 2020 without funding for this measure decided by the federal government. At the end of 2019, I had tabled an urgent proposal to Parliament for the budget to be released, pending a more structural system. We are talking about some 46 million euros here, when we know the state of the communal finances, which themselves feed into the budgets of the police areas. The decision had been voted on as a matter of urgency by Parliament for the year 2020 only and also provided for the potential additional cost (beyond 46 million) which would also be borne by the federal police through adjustments to its appropriations. As soon as you took office in early November, I asked you whether this funding was provided for in Federal Budget 2021 and whether any initiatives were being taken to sustain this funding. You told me that the amount was provided, but that (I quote): "The government has not yet made a decision on how to finance the additional costs. The intention is to develop funding as quickly as possible based on the regime applied under the previous legislature." Minister, can you confirm to me that this federal funding with its additional costs is planned for 2021? What is the exact amount? Another question that I ask you is that you did not reply to this one in November: what is the expected source of funding, given that it came from contributions from local police until last year? Has a change in the source of this funding of $46 million been decided?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u32	Mr President, Madam Minister, as we mentioned in your general policy statement, the financing of the non-activity prior to the pension of the former gendarmes included in the integrated police is a delicate issue inherited from the previous government. The transitional mechanisms have come to an end and it is up to you to find a solution for the financing of this federal decision, a solution that does not impact the finances of the local police areas – and therefore through them the communal budgets – either through direct funding, or through a punction of the APL Fund, abounded by the local authorities. As the year 2021 progresses slowly, minister, can you tell us where your services are in the search for a structural solution on this issue? In the absence of such a lasting solution, what action do you intend to take, for this year 2021, that respects the prerequisites set out at the moment by each other?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u33	Mr Senesael, the police zones were informed, through Ministerial Circular PLP 60 dealing with the guidelines for the preparation of the 2021 police budget for use in the police zones, that they should not include in their 2021 budget any amount relating to the NAPAP funding mechanism. As police areas had to present a balanced budget, they had to adjust it accordingly. So far, I have not had any return from the guardianship services and I cannot confirm that some police areas have been denied budget 2021 because they had integrated NAPAP. Discussions on NAPAP subside are still ongoing. I am well aware of the waiting situation in which the police areas are located and of the need for them to know whether or not this subside will be extended in 2021. The Administration will communicate the NAPAP directives as soon as the matter has been resolved during budgetary control. Police areas will make the necessary adjustments based on these guidelines. Police areas must have a balanced budget, and this balance must be based on the financial returns that police areas are certain to receive when preparing their budgets. It is up to each police area to examine how the budgetary balance can be maintained. There is not a single solution for all police areas. As the subside is currently under discussion, it cannot be included in the 2021 budget for the police areas. If an agreement is reached as a result of budgetary control, the police areas will be able to put their support into their 2021 budget by means of a budgetary amendment. Mrs Taquin, the method of financing to which you refer will also be the subject of discussions within the framework of budgetary control. Mr Metsu, with regard to the specific procedure, if additional resources are made available in the budget control, they will be determined by a royal decision and the procedure and deadlines to be followed. It seems to me appropriate to follow the same procedure as in previous years, namely an application by the police area at the end of each quarter, with payment arrangements, which will, of course, depend on the appropriations decided on under budgetary control. I always stress the distinction between the end-of-life scheme and the non-activity scheme contained in the statutes of the integrated police force and a right for the staff concerned, and the funding to the police areas of the possible additional costs of that scheme. Only the latter is the subject of discussion in the context of budgetary control. As far as your legislative proposal is concerned, it seems to us that it is particularly far-reaching, does not distinguish between the different systems or situations that may arise under NAVAP and as such is not immediately appropriate to provide an adequate response to today's challenges. However, you do have the commitment to look at the issue in greater detail in the context of budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u34	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, even though it leaves me puzzled about the fact that we are talking about an eventuality. In November, things seemed safer for police areas, not on the precise schedule, but they could say that there would be almost definitive changes. It is now understood that this is still under discussion in the context of future budget negotiations and it is not clear how police areas should take responsibility for this in addition if this does not lead to something in the context of budgetary discussions. I can only regret this decision that the government, objectively, could have taken much earlier to secure the police areas, mainly at this time. As you know, they cut down a lot of work, they perform many missions in the context of the covid crisis. I believe that they could have been reassured of this recipe, which must be included in their budget, rather than leaving them in uncertainty and forcing them to close budgets with difficulty. We know that it is difficult for them to put so many means in compliance with the covid measures. I regret your evasive answers. I thought you'd come to something firmer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u35	Thank you for your answers, Minister. I hear the discussions are still under way. Weeks go by and we're not moving forward. The areas are waiting. The crisis does not facilitate the already difficult situation for some of them. Legally, the police areas are waiting for a firmer response from you. I think today, time is running out. We must provide strong structural responses to this situation, which cannot be sustained. I hear the discussions are under way, but I am counting on you, Madam Minister, to 'booster' these discussions. I know that this is an important issue; we have discussed it at length. The next time we ask you about this topic, I hope you will be able to give us more precise answers in terms of timing and funding. I believe in your skill, of course, but also in your will. I therefore hope that we will be able to discuss this matter as soon as possible with more precise answers from you. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u36	Madam Minister, I fully understand that you have not yet been able to work out a structural solution, hence our proposal to give certainty to local authorities and police areas by 2021. It is of course something completely different that you will come back to the promise of November to settle NAVAP in 2021. I am very curious how your colleagues from the majority with a first-name local mandate, such as ships, mayor or even police council member, will respond to what we have heard here today. You gave the advice we asked for two months ago: you do not accept the bill. It is an absolute question why we had to wait two months for that. Mr President, as far as I am concerned, we can now move on to our legislative proposal and I consider the Minister's reply to be a negative opinion. I will certainly ask the vote to clarify the NAVAP scheme for the current year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u37	That will certainly be discussed, Mr Metsu.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u38	Minister, thank you for the clarification. I stress the urgency of the action to be taken and the confirmation of this measure with the police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u39	Minister, adding uncertainty to indecision is not such as to reassure police zone managers, let alone divisional commissioners, who must count every euro in order to respond appropriately to all the injunctions addressed to them and the tasks entrusted to them. I therefore call for clarity and a swift, coherent and positive decision. You can do that, Madam Minister. We need a decision that responds to the clear points you made in this committee. Your credibility and our credibility are at stake. I can no longer be clear, the commitments must absolutely be kept in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u40	Madam Minister, in the meantime it has been a few weeks since a Sunday several organisations called for a speech in Brussels against class justice. Unfortunately, as we could see from scary images, the demonstration resulted in some confrontations between police and protesters. It is reported that the demonstration was initially authorised by the Brussels mayor Close, after which it was still prohibited at your insistence. Questions arise about police action during and after the demonstration. A number of parents of young people arrested on that particular Sunday are considering filing a joint complaint against the police following a violent incident in the cells of the Etterbeek barracks. Madam Secretary, my questions are as follows. When were you, or were you even informed about the demonstration that was initially allowed by Mayor Close? Did you intervene on that? If so, at what point did you do that? What arguments have you put forward to withdraw the initial authorisation for the demonstration? What action has the police taken during and after the demonstration? Do you believe that she has had enough time to carry out a risk analysis and prepare the demonstration, despite the lack of clarity as to whether or not to continue the demonstration? What exactly happened or went wrong during the interventions of the agents in the cells of the barracks in Etterbeek? What kind of damage was there? Is it correct what we could read in the press? How's the investigation coming? My last and not insignificant question is the following. What has been the role of the Brussels Prime Minister throughout the debacle? To what extent have there been any contacts between you and him? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u41	My colleague recalled the context of this demonstration on 24 January 2021. Unfortunately, we were able to read in the press, by means of white maps or publications on social networks or by means of e-mails which were sent to me personally, quite alarmist reports of the events of that day. Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions about the events that took place during this event. Could you clarify whether or not this event is authorized? Was it allowed for 45 minutes or was it simply forbidden? When were you informed by the mayor of Brussels, Philippe Close, and confirm that you intervened in the ban decision? Do you confirm that to date 93 minors have been arrested? Could you tell us what the reasons for these arrests were, given that this demonstration seemed to be tolerated and that no injunction was apparently issued to the demonstrators? Nonante-three arrests of minors, Madam Minister, out of about 150 who are said to have been present are the figures mentioned by the press. It's challenging and the word is weak. What measures did the police take during and after the demonstration? Has a risk analysis been possible within the time frame? Finally, what about police intervention in the cells of the Etterbeek barracks? What damage did they do? By what order? Could you enlighten us, since according to the various evidences known to date, these are serious incidents, assaults and injuries? I'm very worried about what happened in these cells. Thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u42	Madam Minister, on 24 January this year a demonstration against class justice was held in Brussels. The events reported by the participants and passers-by spoil the work of all the police officers who want to do their job properly. It is also on their behalf that I wish to revisit these facts. The demonstration initially tolerated by the burmese was finally dispersed, notably by tear gas and police dogs. The videos that circulate are edifying; the testimonies are cold in the back. For example, a 16-year-old girl reports the words of an agent: "It stinks the woman here!" And, after she pointed out to him that such remarks were unacceptable, here's the policeman's answer: "Here you have no rights, bitch!" I apologize for these terms, but I would like to quote this testimony. For a demonstration of about 100 people, 245 arrests took place. Passers-by were arrested, including a Belgian singer who had come to shoot a clip unrelated to the demonstration. In the press, he says he thinks he was arrested for his skin color. A large number of people also report abuses in cells. You have made a commitment to zero tolerance for integrity violations. So I expect you to make it a priority to clarify this new case. Can you trace the progress of the demonstration and the police intervention on an hour-by-hour basis? Can you tell me the justification for the use of force by the police? Do you intend to act against the agents in question? Has an investigating judge been brought before him? What is your position on the complaint to Committee P? Were the video surveillance footage of the barracks captured? Finally, it was reported that the demonstration was initially authorized, and that the authorization was withdrawn as a result of your intervention. As far as local jurisdiction is concerned, can you tell me on the basis of what legal basis you intervened to have this demonstration banned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u43	Mr President, I have tabled two questions. If it's all right with you, I'll take them together. Madam Minister, a demonstration with less than 250 participants on Sunday 24 January continues to cause unrest in the social media. The accusations made against the Brussels police are therefore not minor: arbitrary arrests, assaults with the baton and racist and sexist statements. According to official figures, no less than 245 demonstrators were held administratively, including 91 minors. All were taken to the barracks of Etterbeek and held there for several hours. The figures show that even more people were arrested than there were arguing. This is also confirmed by a number of victims who had nothing to do with the demonstration. Police spokesperson Olivier Slosse also confirms that it is always a difficult balancing exercise to determine how many people will eventually have to be arrested during a demonstration. We read a lot of poignant stories about the facts in the political azern in Etterbeek. For the time being, however, the police does not want to respond to the need not to harm the internal and possible judicial investigations. Packed up on the spot when sardines have to wait in a ton of hours, pee in a corner, sitting arresters who get knee-butts in the face, underage girls who are even called "whore" and racist statements to young people, these are very serious accusations. At the time I submitted my question, 11 complaints had already been lodged with the P Committee. Will the P Committee launch a large-scale investigation? Do you believe that the coercive measures used by the police were out of proportion? After all, no less than 245 arrests were made. With more than 35 people being pushed into a cell is very strange in times of corona. Something like that raises questions. The demonstration was initially allowed, then banned because of the corona measures and was eventually tolerated for 45 minutes by the massive turnout. In the meantime, you're working on a pandemic bill. Wouldn't it be interesting to pay attention in that draft law to how to cope with manifestations? For example, there is clarity and such situations can be avoided in the future. That brings me seamlessly to my second question. On 30 January I read an article entitled: "My son is no longer asleep, he is afraid." The article is about a 16-year-old boy who wanted to take the train to his aunt but was considered a protester and was arrested. The explanation he gave, that he was on his way to see his aunt, didn't help. He was taken away by bus and dealt with particularly heavily at the police commissioner. He got kicks and punches with a rod. The police didn't notify the underage boy's mother either. Eventually, he was released in shock at 9:30. His mother was waiting for him in front of the police station. She should've been looking for him, and through social media and location records, she would've found him eventually. Other parents also saw their underage children bloody and with bruises in their face already limping away from the office. Ilyes' injuries were diagnosed by a doctor a day later. There were traces of a baton on his belly, a bruise on his face and on his shins and a painful back. We've all been able to see them. It's a heavy verdict for a boy who's never been in touch with the police before. Do you have any knowledge of these facts and have you verified whether this message is a correct representation of what took place that afternoon or evening in the newspaper? Has there been a police report against this young man? What exactly was the charge? If the young man did not commit facts that gave rise to such consequences, can I assume that you believe that this is an absolute abuse of the police's monopoly of violence? What is your view on these facts and what conclusions do you draw? What will you do to restore the trust of this boy and his peers in the police?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u44	Mr President, the protest against class justice on 24 January had not been authorized by the mayor of Brussels. Following consultations between the police, the administrative authority and the organiser, it became clear that the latter could not guarantee compliance with the conditions for the holding of demonstrations prescribed by the ministerial decree. As far as I am concerned, during my meeting with the mayor of Brussels, it became clear that the conditions were not in place to allow this event. I did not have any specific contact with the Minister-President. Despite this ban, people began to gather, starting at 2:00 p.m., at Mont-des-Arts. Since contacts with the organizers were constructive and the conditions were in place for this gathering to take place in accordance with the standards laid down in the ministerial decree (gathering of less than 100 people, static, social distancing and wearing the mask), the administrative authority allowed this gathering to take place for about 40 minutes, in order to allow a fair balance between freedom of expression and the need to enforce health measures in the fight against the spread of the virus. The demonstration took place without incident until its dislocation at about 2.45 p.m. Within ten minutes of the end of this event, other groups presented themselves with the wish to form another gathering. The police tried to dissuade them, but in vain. Some groups then started running in every direction shouting that they were going to break everything. Other groups, for their part, refused to comply with the police injunctions and tried to avoid the dissuasive checkpoints. The police then decided to confine all groups to a central point in order to avoid damage and other harm. There were many police officers present to oversee this event. Indeed, despite the fact that it had been communicated that the demonstration was prohibited, the calls to gather had been maintained. A risk analysis was carried out in real time taking into account the latest information obtained. Thus, on the eve of the event, police reinforcements were again requested and obtained. Eighty-six minors were arrested in Brussels and seven in Saint-Josse-ten-Noode by the area concerned. These minors were deprived of their liberty for the time necessary to register the arrests made. The first persons were released at 6.30 p.m. The 86 minors were handed over as soon as possible to their parents. About 15 minors between the ages of 15 and 17 whose parents did not want to come were dropped off at the Brussels-Central railway station. Others, younger, were dropped off at their homes outside the Brussels region. Like you, ladies and gentlemen, I have read the various reports of police violence committed during these deprivations of liberty. Several complaints were lodged before the P Committee. The Chief of Staff of the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles Police Area immediately ordered an internal investigation into these facts. The results of these investigations will help to establish the sanctions and possible measures that will have to be taken if the facts reported are proven. I asked to be informed of the results of these investigations. As I have already stated, I will not tolerate any abuse of power by law enforcement officials. Respect for the police can only be acquired if the latter is exemplary in its mission. Similarly, the relationship between youth and the police cannot improve if trust and dialogue are not restored. Projects and initiatives are already underway to contribute to this restoration. I will continue to work towards this goal with the police, youth organisations and the competent ministers of the Communities and Regions. As a good recent example, Capital is studying the effectiveness of internationally renowned projects for bringing young people and the police closer together. After attending its launch last week, I am waiting for the results of these living laboratories, where two police officers and two young Brusselsers will develop and test these projects together. I can also refer to the "Mag da?" campaign. [[the Antwerp police area.]] This information campaign aims to better explain the rights of the police and young people. Often, there is also little knowledge of citizens' rights and obligations in security aspects. Similarly, I applaud the initiative of four Flemish areas that have an awareness project to better guide professional profiling in the field. I am also committed to fighting arbitrary or ethnic profiling if it proves to be structural. On the other hand, these individual cases of abuse of power are still subject to an internal investigation by the head of the corps, who is obliged to warn the mayor about these complaints. Such an investigation may lead to disciplinary punishment. The citizen can count on the processing of each complaint by each police area. The police zones were obliged by POL 48 to establish an internal investigation service to deal with the complaint in the police force itself or in another police area. I can assure you that the areas are dealing with these complaints seriously. POL 48 specifies that it is not only the behaviour on the ground, but also the management of the administrative cells that is concerned. The objective of this internal control duty is not only disciplinary. Since Circular CP 3 on Organizational Control, there may be even greater focus on improving the quality of service to the public by identifying areas for improvement. This complaint channel is available to the citizen, easily accessible by a button on the website of each police area. Similarly, I have already committed myself to strengthening integrity and diversity in the police through various channels, including recruitment. I will make the necessary investments to that end. We aim to create partnerships outside the police to strengthen this diversity in recruitment. With regard to the facts that occurred within the cell complex, damage was committed on the furniture. In three of the miners' cells, the aluminum urinals were ripped off the wall and the young people threw them at each other. In view of the danger of injuries, the police intervened in the said cells and extracted the disruptors from them. The calm came back. Apart from the urinals, graffiti and damage, engravings and blows were also observed at the walls and doors of the cells. A report has been drawn up for these facts, as well as a photographic report. Mr Boukili, regarding the presence of police dogs, the dog teams are still positioned in the second line and have no offensive mission. One of their roles is to secure the police officers on the front line. In this case, a police unit carrying out arrests at the crossroads of Europe was threatened by a group trying to intervene in the action. It was on this occasion that the dog master intervened and tear gas was used. Mr Goethals, during the demonstration, the police, in consultation with the organizer, looked to ensure that the covid measures were respected by the demonstrators. At the end of the demonstration, everyone left the scene and the police ensured that no other training took place. The police have carried out a dynamic risk analysis which allows the situation to be monitored and, if necessary, to make the necessary adjustments. For example, additional reinforcements were requested and also obtained before the demonstration on a daily basis. During the demonstration, the corona measures were followed, partly thanks to the involvement of the organizer. As I said before, three urinals were ripped off the wall in the cells and threw them at the other cell mates with a risk of injury. The police intervened and placed the hotheads in other cells, after which the rest returned. The damage was therefore limited to the urinals. As far as we know, no one reported any injuries and no one had to be cared for. Mr Moyaers, there is an ongoing investigation into the facts, both at the P Committee and at the Internal Monitoring Service of the police area concerned. Only an administrative record relating to the administrative arrest of the person concerned was drawn up. However, a judicial PV was drafted on destruction in the cells. An investigation has yet to establish whether that person was also involved in this. The case concerning the young Ilyes will be examined by both the P Committee and the local police area concerned. That is why I cannot and will not give my opinion on the matter. It is certainly regrettable that the incident further undermines the relationship between young people and the police. Following the demonstration, the mayor of Brussels met the child rights Commissioner Caroline Vrijens, who, together with four young people involved, accompanied by their parents, asked the mayor for text and explanations. Such an initiative, which sought to hear the concerns of the various parties about the progress of the demonstration and to examine what action needed to be taken to remedy it, should certainly be encouraged. A second meeting is scheduled within a month, to prepare an initial evaluation. That is precisely why, the day before yesterday, I myself had a discussion with the Commissioner responsible for children's rights on her advice on how to deal with the police with young people. The Commissioner responsible for children's rights, together with her French-speaking counterpart, Bernard Devos, délégué général de la Communauté française attaché aux droits des enfants, has already made a wide range of suggestions to better safeguard the rights of minors in dealing with police. I therefore commit myself to taking these advice to heart and, where I can, taking initiatives to raise awareness not only in the police forces, but also in training them even better. In this way, they are given the right instruments in order to better deal with younger people. We have had a very interesting and interesting debate with the Commissioner for Children's Rights. In the short term, steps can really be taken to strengthen the relationship between young people and the police, especially from the police's approach towards young people, whenever and wherever they are faced with police action. As I said, there are also a number of bottom-up projects to restore confidence and respect between young people and police. Some of them come from civil society rather, while others originated in a particular police area. It is important that we make maximum use of partnerships, both at political and civil level. For example, the Brussels Hackathon already mentioned is a cooperation between Minister Dalle and the six Brussels police zones. In any case, I will continue to support all initiatives along these lines and, where possible, consolidate them at national level, so that the lessons drawn from them and the expertise acquired can be exchanged as effectively as possible. Finally, with the emergence of new forms of protest, police forces must develop a new police approach to the preparation and management of these meetings, with due regard for the accepted management of public space. This new police approach requires particular attention and possibly an adjustment and optimisation, coupled with the long-term management of the corona crisis. The situation we are in today is new and requires efforts and adjustments at all levels. I am convinced that, with the right decisions, we will succeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u45	Thank you for your answers, Madam Secretary. I cannot get the impression that today, during demonstrations, we are working with two sizes and two weights, depending on who is organising the demonstration. At the demonstration on 24 January, we saw an enormous development of the police force, which, let's say, was extremely good, but which we missed somewhat at earlier demonstrations. Over the last few months, it has been shown on several occasions that it is difficult to reconcile individual fundamental rights with public health and the public interest. It is clear that a balanced solution must be sought between protest and respect for security rules. If the latter cannot be guaranteed, demonstrations must always be prohibited. Hopefully these essential considerations will always be thoroughly made by the mayors of Brussels. Finally, I am concerned that you were not in contact with the Prime Minister of Brussels. However, I do not need to repeat who is in the move and who has to take responsibility. First of all, that is the Minister, then the Prime Minister of Brussels, and you are only the final leader, after a lot of palaver. I conclude from this that he has not been able or willing to accept his responsibility. I get the feeling you deliberately or unconsciously kept him out of the loop.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u46	Madam Minister, I thank you for your detailed answer and for the elements you have brought to my various questions. Nevertheless, a series of disturbing inquiries have not yet been substantiated. I look forward, as you do, to the results of the internal investigation and the outcome of the investigation and complaints to Committee P. I'll stop here for my line. I cannot reply without having obtained answers that would shed light on these events. Today, we regret what happened. You have recalled a series of measures that exist or will be implemented. You have recalled various desired and possible consultations. But finally, it has been several weeks since we discussed these very disturbing and repetitive facts. We have to think about what we can do and how structurally: we could act in Parliament and in our committee. We often talk about the selection and training of our police officers. We must now reflect on what we are going to implement so that these facts do not happen again. It is not just about young people and a better reconciliation between them and the police. We are also talking about serious facts: violence, assault and injury, insults by our police officers; it is intolerable! You recalled the zero tolerance that we had already mentioned in previous weeks. But this one, unfortunately, we do not yet see it on the ground. Not later than last week, we were talking about unpunished policemen. In this committee, we must work structurally to provide strong answers on the ground, but also to those victims and their parents who do not understand what has happened. I'm not a mom, but I'm thinking about my girlfriends, 30-year-olds who have kids who are afraid to walk around the street, not because of thugs, but because of the police. How does a 15-year-old who is waiting for his bus find himself in Brussels today in a cell with a fractured tibia? I hope, Madam Minister, that we will be able to shed all the light on this matter and work together structurally to provide strong answers in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would like no longer to have to intervene in this commission to report abuses and breaches of integrity by the police. We saw him in this demonstration. My colleague also said so. There were beatings, insults. We can't deny the problem. Every week, we intervene on such facts. There is a real structural problem to be tackled. It is necessary to react in terms of training, supervision and procedures. We see that these do not end and make the bed of impunity. We cannot afford, in a country like ours, to have a police discredited by violence perpetrated by it, particularly in the context of a demonstration. I told you about the means used (gas tear gas, police dogs). You said the canine brigades are defensive and serve to defend the other police officers in action in the second line. We didn't watch the same videos. The one I saw showed peaceful demonstrators who were not assaulting anyone and who were assaulted by dogs and tear gas bombs. The rules have not been complied with. Like you, we will be waiting for the results of the investigation, which we will be very attentive to reacting to. On the other hand, Madam Minister, I must admit that I am a little confused with your response to your intervention with the mayor. In plenary, you replied that you had not intervened. You claim to have contacted the mayor, who, in the absence of health guarantees, had to prohibit the demonstration. Then you specify that it was finally tolerated by the police on the grounds that the sanitary conditions could be met. I confess I don't understand exactly what happened. In addition, you confirm having had contact with the mayor, although I thought I understood the opposite in your reply in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u48	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. I would like to come back to Ilyes, the 16-year-old boy I mentioned in my second question. I understand that, in the interests of the investigation, you have not yet been able to make many statements on this matter. I don't want to show a biased attitude here either. Based on information I could find, however, it seems to me that the boy was just in the wrong place at the wrong time. I very much welcome the initiatives taken by the Commissioner responsible for children's rights and the active attitude you take. In any case, the very serious acts of violence against him remain. The boy today, along with his mother, has completely lost faith in the police. It is therefore a good thing that initiatives are being taken to strengthen or restore confidence between young people and the police. If the allegations were correct and several minors were the same fate as they were on that day in an office in Etterbeek, then the police inspectors responsible for that violence have been seriously overstepped. I take note of the destruction in the cell, which in no way can be justified. However, we must also have the courage to think about the fact that in times of pandemic not such a large group is put together in a cell. The police monopoly to use force if necessary is linked to a very great responsibility for dealing with that power. In this case, violence does not seem to me to be at all in proportion to the facts. I should therefore like to strongly condemn this. Madam Minister, I hope that you will ensure that this is not without consequences if it is confirmed by the P Committee's report. From the comprehensive answer you gave, I dare to trust you in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u49	Madam Secretary, I, too, have another remark to make. I believe that a somewhat one-sided story about our police services is being put up here. I have already questioned you in plenary. I'll make a confession. In my youth years, in my student years, I have been arrested several times during forbidden events, events that were not allowed. By participating in these events, we knew that there was a risk of being picked up by the police. For me, that was no reason to commit vandalism or to lodge a complaint. I would just like to say that everything has to be looked at in perspective. I have also received testimonies from police officers who said that they brought minors home because their parents did not come to the police department to pick them up. I believe that this should be mentioned in addition to all the negative reports that have already been reported on our police force today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u50	I think we can conclude this debate for today. I am sure that this issue will be dealt with further later in our Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u51	Question No 55012783C by Mrs Rohonyi is postponed at her request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u52	Mr President, Madam Minister, we know that the infrastructure for police training has long been the subject of a structural deficit. This deficit creates very complicated situations and prevents a real ongoing training of police officers, sometimes for essential tasks such as shooting training. The situation is so difficult that our special units do their training in a temporary site and building. In view of this situation, the master plan seems to provide 750 million euros for new investments. This is important, but of course this investment also involves infrastructure other than training facilities. Minister, are fire training standards met for both federal and local police? If this is not the case, what transitional measures have you taken recently in this regard? Have there been any plans to prioritize and alternately exploit the occupation of training infrastructure for access to these sites by federal services in the various areas of the country? Has a cadastre of needs been established? If so, by what services? Could you then clarify the priorities? Finally, considering that the final infrastructure for the special units is apparently not completed until 2024, do you consider, in view of the assessments you receive from the DAS personnel department, that the current training site is sufficient? In this regard, have options for exchange of places with neighbouring countries been considered, in particular in the context of exchanges of expertise or changes in intervention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u53	Mr President, Mr Pivin, as you mentioned, Circular GPI 48 includes minimum standards for shooting training. Compliance with these standards is mandatory and is the responsibility of each manager. Each year, these officials present an overview of their service, during the basic consultation committees and, if necessary, concrete actions by management are undertaken. That said, in 2020, for the Federal Police, based on the already encoded profiles, the firearms training targets were reached at 47.98 per cent. In 2016, a needs cadastre was actually carried out as part of the work on the development of the Federal Police Master Plan Infrastructure. This cadastre demonstrated a lack of available capabilities to meet the requirements for shooting training as defined by the GPI 48. The masterplan therefore incorporates a series of projects to which priorities have been assigned. These priorities are aimed at expanding the capabilities available in shooting stands. However, the development of many infrastructure projects will take time and require intermediate measures. As well, the Federal Police uses the shooting booth capabilities available from various partners such as Defence, certain police areas, police schools, and public institutions such as intercommunals. At the national level, the rental of private shooting stands remains marginal. Certainly, and as is the case for shooting centres, tactical training sites specifically dedicated to special units would benefit from improvement. A project with European funds has been carried out on the initiative of the Directorate of Special Units, and has recently been put into operation. I had the opportunity to visit this new training space with the Prime Minister. This type of solution can be developed. I also count on the Westhakkers website's prospects for further developments for the benefit of the special units. Exchange options are also being considered with border countries. During ATLAS-level activities, our special units benefit from the infrastructure of the host country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u54	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer and, I would like to add, for your frankness. The comprehensiveness of your answer is all the more worrying given that the targets are achieved by less than 50%, if I understand correctly. It seems to me urgent to make all these intentions effective. I know you need time to digest all the skills you've been assigned. Nevertheless, we are talking here about the practice and, therefore, the experience of the police force. So I'm counting on you to speed up the tempo.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u55	Madam Minister, at the end of last year, you announced your intention to launch an awareness campaign with relief personnel to systematize complaint filings when they are victims of assault. This is a crucial issue in determining the measures to be taken to protect people working in our response services. This situation, linked to a sense of impunity for the perpetrators, is broader and concerns not only relief personnel, but ultimately all those with public authority. The situation of our police officers is particularly problematic at this level. Could you then tell us what the framework for this awareness campaign is? By which service is it developed and disseminated? During what period of time will it be carried out and, practically, how will the campaign messages be communicated to the staff of these services? What services does the campaign specifically address? Do you intend to launch such an awareness-raising campaign with the police force? Could you clarify the changes to the new circular of the College of Attorneys General compared to the one of 2017? Have you communicated internally, within the Federal Police and local police areas, on the new circular? If not, did you plan a budget in 2021 to conduct an awareness-raising campaign with the police on attacks against the police? Finally, is an evaluation of the results of the emergency service campaign planned? If so, when and by what service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u56	Minister, at the meeting on January 13, I asked you about the state of health of our firefighters. You then learned that you were planning to carry out a communication campaign for emergency areas, which would include a component dedicated to the health of firefighters, particularly with regard to the risk of cancer. At the time, I had obviously welcomed this decision. Now, I would like to ask you more specifically about your announcement. Minister, can you say more about this communication campaign? What will be the content? What date can we expect it to be launched?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u57	Mr. Pivin, Ms. Song, this is an awareness campaign in partnership with the federal police and the local police, towards two target audiences. It is envisaged, on the one hand, for the staff of the services concerned to systematize the filing of complaints when they are victims of aggression, so that they can have the most accurate picture possible of this phenomenon and, on the other hand, for the citizens in order to make them aware of the respect due to these professionals and to remind them that any violence against them is unacceptable and intolerable. The campaign is under development. A multidisciplinary working group is being set up to better define it. The police services are obviously part of the relevant services involved in both aspects of this awareness-raising campaign. The working group examines whether other services, such as firefighters or emergency medical services, can be included. In terms of internal awareness, initiatives have already been taken by the integrated police force. These include an internal communication issued in August 2020 on the importance of reporting incidents or the existence of an intranet site that makes all information on this issue available to integrated police personnel. Pursuant to the new version of Circular COL 10/2017, a hearing of the suspect by the magistrate must now, in principle, take place before a decision can be made on his release or on his availability to the investigating judge. The use of expedited court hearings will also be preferred in cases of physical violence, rebellion, contempt or threats against a police officer. The content of this new COL was communicated to all integrated police personnel on December 1, 2020. Raising awareness of the Bashing Police is a key element in the communication focus of the Standing Commission of the Local Police. The modalities of the campaign – timing, focus, professions concerned, structure, participants in the working group – still need to be determined. Ms. Song, the campaign planned by the Directorate-General for Civil Safety is an internal campaign for the firefighters themselves. It focuses on three different themes related to well-being. First, hygiene during interventions, cancer prevention; second, physical fitness, maintenance and improvement of physical condition; and finally, assault management, reporting verbal or physical assaults. Through this campaign, the Federal Knowledge Centre for Civil Security aims to raise awareness and empower the approximately 18,000 professional and volunteer firefighters in the country who face daily risks in the practice of their profession. Some of these risks are purely operational and others are more related to occupational health and well-being and safety. Hygiene – and in particular cancer prevention – is one of the themes that will be included in the awareness-raising campaign: to encourage firefighters to take training; to develop in firefighters the knowledge and proper use of existing procedures to limit the risks involved; to modify the individual and collective behaviour of firefighters in order to avoid as much as possible their exposure to the risks involved; and to explain and make known the consequences of the risks of their prevention. For the development of the campaign, the Knowledge Centre works closely with the networks representative of the rescue areas: Netwerk Brandweer, res zone WAL (?) as well as members of the SIAMU of Brussels capital. Trade unions are also involved. The launch of the campaign is planned in the first half of this year. The timing will be determined in consultation with the emergency areas but will also depend on when shooting and photo shoots for the campaign will be possible. This filming was postponed due to the covid-19 pandemic to reduce the risk of contamination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is important that you ensure the effectiveness of the new circular. About ten days ago, I was able to read in the press a statement from the prosecutor of the King of Charleroi. As long as this statement has been well relayed by the journalist, the King's prosecutor states that the situation has been rather positive since 2019 and that there are very few rankings without follow-up. However, he continues to make a distinction between beatings to the police and insults and rebellions by saying that for outrages and rebellions, it should not be ruled out that there are still a lot of rankings without follow-up. In this interview he gave, he made no mention at any time of the existence of the new circular. I hope, therefore, that things will be done the way they should be and that all the messages will be relayed, as we were told both by you and by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u60	Madam Secretary, you have a lot of work to do as Minister of the Interior. In addition, you are also responsible for Institutional Reforms. There too, the challenge is enormous. Your government's ambition is to establish a new state structure by 2024. In that respect, I would like to know exactly who will prepare this work. We have already talked about this in the past, there is no specific administration for institutional reform. The work must therefore be drawn by your cabinet. The composition of the cabinets can be found on the website. When I look at that list, I can see that your cabinet has about 31 employees. Of these, 21 employees are in support and communication. Then it's about the people who work at the secretariat and the reception. Six work in logistics or is a driver, five in budget and economy, there are 2 spokesmen-translators, 5 parliamentary relations and there are 2 diplomatic advisers. In addition, you also have 10 substantive staff: your head of your cabinet, of course, and 5 police advisors, 2 for civil files and 2 for legal affairs. Are those the people who will do the job? Are those the people in your cabinet responsible for institutional reform and political renewal? At the same time, I note that the list of Mr Clarinval's cabinet is also being published. It has a much larger cabinet than you, at least according to that list. Mr. Clarinval has 43 employees, you have 31. He also specifically assigned people to a cell of Institutional Reforms. That's about six or seven employees, compared to two with you. Hence my questions. What's the point? How many employees in your cabinet have been assigned to state reform and political renewal? Is there an extra budget, in your credits or in any other way, to purchase external expertise where it would be necessary? If there are insufficient staff, external assistance is of course also possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u61	Mr Loones, I would particularly like to thank you for your interest in the composition of the Institutional Reform Cell in my cabinet. Indeed, today there are two policy staff who are specifically and exclusively concerned with monitoring and preparing institutional reform. There are also lawyers working in the Cabinet who will provide support in certain areas of institutional reform. They can examine a number of questions carefully and can legally follow up certain points that require further analysis. In addition, there is also a policy officer who will focus specifically on democratic renewal. It will not surprise you that there is also a link with institutional reform there, because a number of issues can serve both challenges. It is certainly envisaged that other experts will also be given study or research assignments in the framework of institutional reform and democratic renewal. No explicit budget has yet been set for this, but we will, of course, do so when the need or opportunity arises. There are effective reflections on institutional reform in many fora. In other Cabinets there are also staff working on institutional reform. The aim is therefore to put the shoulders underneath all of them. In the cabinet of colleague Clarinval there are staff working on it. So you have to put those numbers together. I also refer to the knowledge centre on state reform in the Senate. There are also a lot of lawyers there. We will also be able to rely on their expertise to prepare those activities. As far as I have to understand your question as a subtle support for greater commitment to institutional reform and state reform, I naturally welcome that. We will be able to discuss this at an appropriate time in order to extend the cabinet and the available budget today in order to proceed with the preparation of institutional reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u62	Madam Minister, it is not an implicit question, it is an explicit question, to certainly provide sufficient funding on the institutional dossier, yet one of your government's trophies and certainly your party's. I have also read that you will shortly be presenting the list of constitutional articles that are declared subject to revision. It can be drafted quickly, just Article 195, so it can be done. You say that the numbers of Mr Clarinval and yourself can be combined. I understand why you say that, but let us be honest, there are different types of tractors in this dossier. There are leaders and there are opponents and I do not know whether they are necessary to find them in both cabinets. It is also interesting to learn that there are employees in the various cabinets, including from other parties. I am sure that I will also ask for these figures to see how they are going to proceed. Anyway, it was nice to see you here. I am a member of the Committee on Finance and Budget. If money is to be found to carry out institutional studies, I will be happy to be an advocate in the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u63	Now tell me again that the opposition cannot be constructive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u64	Minister, for several years now, the use of section radars seems to be a problem in our country. In 2018, the Vias Institute revealed that motorcyclists escaped a fine in 90% of the inspections carried out using radar sections in Flanders. The operation of this type of apparatus consists of photographing the plates of the vehicles and associating them with a precise hour of passage, via two devices located at two points of a journey, allowing the calculation of the average speed of the vehicles between these two points. For the Vias Institute, the figures mentioned could be explained by two elements. First, as employees, the radar sections photographed only the front plates of vehicles and then the motorcycles had only one rear plate. Recently this institute pointed out that this problem still remains today and deplored via its spokesperson that bikers pass between the meshes of the net. Can you have your feedback on this issue? You recently announced that "the establishment of the ANPR network will continue in 2021". You also said that the number of radar sections connected to it will gradually increase. And you added that the upcoming automation of cameras using the Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) system of the segment radars will allow to deal with many more infringements and work more efficiently. Finally, you stated that after the section radar test, other conditions will have to be met before the new infringement treatment can be fully operational. Will the upcoming installation of these segment radars and their connection to the ANPR network really make it possible to control the speed of the bikers effectively? There are solutions to the problem: the use of cameras capable of photographing at the front and rear of the vehicle, or the use of two additional cameras on a given route. What do you think about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u65	Mr Senesael, it is true that some speed control systems are based only on the reproduction of the registration plate fixed at the front of the vehicle. Motorcycles are not subject to speed control when these systems are used. The deployment of the speed control system is the responsibility of the road manager. The fact that a section radar connected to an ANPR camera records the data from the front of a vehicle is the result of a choice made in a previous legislature. The main objective of an ANPR camera is to create a camera shield. In judicial investigations, it is useful to know who was driving with a specific vehicle. The devices currently used by the integrated police meet the requirements set out in the Royal Decree of 12 October 2010 on these instruments. We need to ensure that the devices currently used by the integrated police can continue to be used in the future, even if they have some negative aspects, such as the problem with motorcycles. Time must be given before the requirements of the Royal Decree of 12 October 2010 can be adapted. It may be considered that, in order not to compromise the current control policy, consideration must be given to a transitional period for manufacturers to develop a new device. As far as the technical aspects are concerned, I would like to refer you to my colleague the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour, or to the relevant regional ministers on roads other than motorways.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u66	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is clear, and you stress, that some of the systems used do not meet the objectives pursued. I also note the need for time to adapt the system in order to meet legal requirements. I will not fail to address your colleagues on the other points of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u67	I would like to remind Members that there is a possibility of referring to the question submitted in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u68	Madam Secretary, patrols take place on horseback in Zeebrugge. The horses are ridden by federal agents, but they live in Brussels. So they have to drive to and from Zeebrugge every day. Those hours are also counted as working hours. These horses used to stay in Zeebrugge, but now, apparently, they have to go to Brussels again and again. In practice, questions arise as to whether these horses can stay in Zeebrugge, as was the case in the past. There is also the demand for additional support from the federal police at night, due to the problem of transmigration. Madam Minister, will you work to ensure that horses, as was the case in the past, can stay in Zeebrugge so that more manhours can be patrolled and people are less on their way? Do you consider additional support from the federal police possible at night?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u69	Mr Demon, the federal police have indeed stopped the system of so-called multi-day patrols on horseback. This decision was taken on the basis of the following elements: Only a limited group of police riders lives in the area and can be deployed on the coast for several days. The fact that only this small group of riders and horses can be called upon makes it impossible to distribute the workload across the whole of the police riders and horses. It is therefore not planned to return to the multi-day patrols, nor to stable the horses at night in Zeebrugge because of the current capacity. In the context of the problem of migrants, actions are organized at regular intervals in Zeebrugge. These actions are either integrated actions set up under the coordination of the federal police or multidisciplinary actions carried out by the Bruges police area. For these last targeted actions, the support of the federal police can always be sought through the regular channels, both for daytime and night actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u70	Madam Secretary, it is good to know that the presence of the federal police can also be requested at night. Those horses might look like a detail. I talked to those people. With horses in the trailer they can also drive slower. I think it is important to look at whether this can be done more efficiently, so that there can be more equestrian hours in Zeebrugge. I think this is a technical challenge that can ensure that there are more man-hours on horseback.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u71	Madam Secretary, I don't know if you have a nickname, but when I play online games, I dare call myself Duckyboy. A lot of people have a nickname and there's nothing wrong with that. But when it comes to online harassment and spreading hatred, anonymisation on the Internet and social media becomes a potential problem. Your colleague Minister Van Quickenborne has already indicated that he wants to be able to prosecute the online hate speech more efficiently. There are also a number of issues in the coalition agreement. I'm very interested. In the advisory committee on scientific issues in this Parliament, I asked several experts what they thought about the anonymisation on social media platforms. The opinions on this matter are divided. One likes it, the other likes it less. It's important to look at what happens when something goes wrong. That's what my questions are about. If an investigation is initiated into online hate messages, is it always possible for the police to identify the unsub? I know there is an IP address behind every presence, but does this apply to all online platforms, or are there platforms that make this impossible? What are your experiences with that? Online there are many intermediaries such as internet service providers, web hosting providers and the like. Under European law, they are obliged to always be able to offer the victim the identification of the speaker. I wonder if that always happens. Can you always do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u72	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt, first of all I can tell you that the identification of an offender is not always based on an IP address. Publications on social media are sometimes identifiable on the basis of the alias used, but possibly also on the basis of the elements found in the user's profile or in public sources on the Internet. For example, some messages contain elements that can already lead to an identification. Sometimes an e-mail address or telephone number can be found or, if necessary, a photograph of the perpetrator's or vehicle's residence, showing the license plate. If one cannot identify the author by means of open sources, an identification via the IP address can only be made on the basis of a claim due to a magistrate. Regularly, such claims are directed to Internet providers or platforms in order, as you rightly notice, to identify a profile or individual through these so-called intermediaries. Some of them work pretty well with this, others only respond moderately to legal claims. In general, the Internet providers and platforms analyse a legal claim both on legality and from the point of view of territorial jurisdiction of the magistrate. This latter aspect is often the most difficult to demonstrate legally. After all, it is possible that a profile was created with an e-mail address that cannot be identified as Belgian, such as a gmail address, or that the content of the profile does not contain any Belgian reference to or identification of the offender, even if the content of the message is clearly Belgian. In such cases, providers or platforms usually request a formal request for legal assistance under the Mutual Legal Assistance Convention or a so-called rogatory commission before communicating user information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u73	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I'll take a look at that information. There are many problems with social media, but it is not a one-dimensional problem. So you will not hear me say that solving the anonymisation solves everything. In the meantime, Europe is also in the process of issuing a number of directives, and our government has also included a number of issues in the coalition agreement. There is, of course, some social psychology involved. People who wear masks or who are in groups are afraid to do something they wouldn't otherwise do. The same may apply to an anonymous profile. It might be useful to protect some people from themselves, so that they don't do online business that they wouldn't do in normal life either. I'll read your answer. I'm just sorry I didn't find out about your nickname.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u74	Minister, since October 26, 2019, 'zadists' have planted their tents in Arlon on the site of an old sandstone. They are campaigning against the development of an SME zoning on an area identified by the Walloon Region as of great biological interest. They occupy private land in the intercommunal IDELUX. For these activists, this area has become a "Zad to defend" (ZAD). Dialogue is difficult between the city, the intercommunal and the Zadists, each defending its model of society. In the last few days, a few weeks, reports have been circulating that a police operation to evict people illegally on the site of the old sandstone is imminent. Persuaded to be relocated in the coming weeks, the Zadists organize and mobilize to defend the area they have settled in. Many activists have joined the area in recent days. Do you think it is reasonable for an expulsion to be decided in the midst of a pandemic? Is there still room for consultation? If an operation is planned, what is the risk analysis of this type of operation? Is an appeal to the federal police planned? What is the legal lever to activate this possible expulsion?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u75	Minister, as my colleague has just said, activists illegally occupy Schoppach's former sandstone in Arlon. They settled there on October 26, 2019. I am in favour of citizen demonstrations but remember that civil disobedience is not a right and that when these demonstrations lead to violence or chaos, they must stop. That's what we live here. The local authorities have made every effort to have proper consultations with these people. Unfortunately, this has been of no use. In the police college, where I sit, we follow on a day-to-day basis what is happening in this place. When I see how far those who occupy this area have prepared the evacuation, I keep asking the divisional and the men and women who manage this case, to be very careful not to have any injuries during the evacuation. To welcome the police, the occupants of the site have prepared pavements in ropes... We are in a rule of law and I would like to see every effort made to ensure that this area is evacuated peacefully, as the concertation is not possible. Above all, I wish there were no injuries or deaths during this evacuation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u76	Thank you, colleagues Thibaut and Arens. It should be recalled that the occupation of Schoppach's sandstone is illegal. A notice of expulsion was served by judicial officer on the basis of a judgment of December 2019. However, the enforcement of this expulsion has not been served. Since then, no consultation, no dialogue led by several members of the communal council, as well as by the mayor, has been successful. Throughout 2020, illegal occupants have been the subject of numerous reports, including for damage, environmental violations, attacks, robbery, drug use and non-compliance with pandemic health measures. Minors are at risk in this mill, in particular instigated to use narcotics. Public order disturbances are regularly reported around this perimeter. An additional step was taken during two blockages of the highway adjacent to the wood. The facts are described as a vicious hindrance to traffic and lives have been put at risk. Given the total absence of dialogue, public order disturbances, judicial offences, environmental violations, non-compliance with pandemic measures and the demonstrated willingness to ridicule the rule of law, it is indeed envisaged that an evacuation will have to be implemented. Contrary to what was circulating on social media, there was no expulsion on 26 January. The mayor of Arlon communicated on this subject by reiterating his request for de-escalation and peaceful departure of the occupants. In addition, a risk analysis was carried out. It also relies on a threat assessment by OCAM. This may require support from the federal police. The mechanism for its implementation is provided for in Ministerial Circular MFO-2 on Solidarity Mechanisms for Strengthening Administrative Police Missions. In concrete terms, requests are addressed to the coordinating director of the province, who coordinates federal support for supra-local administrative police missions. It shall assess the application in partnership with the area concerned on the basis of the established risk analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u77	Madam Minister, I thank you for this state of affairs. De-escalation is indeed necessary. We are all aware that there can be no injuries, if not worse, in law enforcement and ZAD. I therefore invite you to the most prudent risk analysis possible in order to avoid injuries in both camps.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u78	Minister, thank you for your answer. I stress the need for the support of the federal police in this operation, as it is better equipped than the local police. In any case, we can no longer allow this illegal situation to continue, as we have all repeated. Local motorway traffic is threatened by throws of objects. Do you need an accident to finally move on? Of course, I ask you to be very careful and ask you to send the necessary forces so that everything goes smoothly. I will go so far as to ask the occupants of this area to think carefully about what they are doing and to understand that this is not the way we are fighting for the environment. On the contrary! They degrade it, just as they alter the atmosphere of humanity that must reign between all parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u79	Mr President, Mr Metsu, a royal decision lays down conditions for the installation and use of alarm systems and emergency power stations. It concerns who is allowed to install such systems, the conditions of maintenance, how this should be done, specific rules of use, etc. The purpose of the regulation is to encourage users of alarm systems to handle as carefully as possible the use of their alarm systems to mitigate their possible negative effects. This is not so much about the enormous noise nuisance that can be caused by alarm sirens as about the impact of unnecessary negative alarm calls on the operational capacity of police forces. In other words, the regulation aims to limit to a maximum unnecessary police intervention. Therefore, the regulation provides for a number of conditions, both in terms of installation and maintenance and in terms of the use of those alarm systems. This regulation allows a number of rules to be imposed on the users of an alarm system. Two rules are essential to avoid unnecessary alarm notifications and police interventions. Firstly, the alarm signal sent by the alarm system must not be sent directly to the police or emergency numbers. This means that there must always be an intermediate step before an alarm is reported to the police or emergency services. The reason for this is logical and very practical. In Belgium there are hundreds of alarms every day sending out a signal. If all of these were to reach emergency power stations, this would be detrimental to the proper functioning of the services. In the situation you put forward in your question, the rule is respected. The alarm system has sent a signal to the user's cell phone and not directly to the police. However, it goes wrong with the next rule. Before an alarm can be reported to the police, it must be verified whether it can be a lawful alarm. We only speak of a lawful alarm when there is an intruder or an attempt to intrude. The user of the alarm system shall be responsible for the verification of the alarm system. However, if he has entered into a contract for an authorized alarm centre, the duty of verification shall be transferred to the alarm centre which, in the event of an alarm, may also send a surveillance agent on the spot in addition to a technical verification of the alarm. If there is no or inadequate verification of the alarm prior to reporting to the police, the alarm centre shall be responsible in this case. On the other hand, if the user is not connected to an alarm centre, which is his right, he himself is responsible for the prior verification of the alarm. He may carry out this verification from a distance himself by using modern technological means or by indicating an mandated person on the spot. If there is no or no faulty verification, the user is always responsible. The current rules do not prevent the use of current communication or technological means to direct, manage or even use alarm systems to carry out the verification obligation. The reason is logical: having a police patrol come in for a false alarm, for example for a cat that sets off the alarm, means that that police patrol cannot be deployed anywhere else. In view of the huge number of false alarms...................................................................................................................... The verification obligation is therefore necessary and important. Moreover, the case cited shows that the owner of the alarm system also infringed another rule contained in the Royal Decree. After all, he had the police marched to a location without ensuring that on arrival of the police there was someone present to give the police access to the secure property and, if necessary, to take out the alarm. In the context of the administrative penalty procedure, taking into account the specific facts, it is assessed what is the most likely sanction in the present case. That could be a warning, a friendly settlement or a fine. The penalty forks used are regulated and take into account the purpose of the infringement rule. The decision will, as always, be justified. Since the verification obligation is one of the cornerstones of the existence of that regulation, in order to avoid unnecessary police intervention, the infringements of that rule are severely punished. This is all the more true at a time when technology can help to optimise remote technical checks on the accuracy of an alarm.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u80	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u81	Madam Minister, everywhere in Belgium, local authorities see certain legitimate companies, non-profit organisations and cases being used as a cover to set up illegal practices such as drug trafficking and money laundering. It is important that the link between the legal upper world and the illegal underworld be cut as quickly as possible. Local authorities play a crucial role in this. They must be well supported. In the Netherlands the so-called RIEC's have been known for years. These are ten regional information and expertise networks that support local authorities. Since 2017, pilot projects in Belgium have been carried out in Namur, Antwerp and Limburg with the aim of supporting and promoting an integrated approach to these phenomena. In Limburg this is experienced very positively by the local authorities, but also by police and public prosecutors. We also see that these pilot projects are coming to an end. Madam Minister, have these pilot projects already been evaluated in Limburg, Antwerp and Namur? Are there any intentions to anchor the pilot projects in their regular operation? How's that gonna happen? Is there a timing for that? Are there any intentions to launch a similar project in other provinces as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u82	Mr Mattheï, because the pilot projects with ARIEC in Limburg, Antwerp and Namur are coming to an end, an audit on the operation of these centres of expertise was carried out last year on behalf of the Federal Police Management Committee. This audit has demonstrated the concrete added value of ARIECs in coordinating and supporting administrative enforcement. I will also be visiting these centres of expertise shortly to make sure of that. In fact, I was at the DirCo in Antwerp this morning, where the importance and necessity of the work and activities of ARIEC were demonstrated. On the basis of this audit, the Federal Police Management Committee has agreed to the dissection of the three existing pilot projects in the respective coordination and support directories of the federal police. This obviously entails additional costs for the federal police because the pilot projects were initially subsidised with European funds, which would end at the end of the year anyway. There is already a lot of interest from other arrondissements to work with such ARIECs. For this purpose, an impact analysis needs to be carried out to determine whether the necessary resources and financial resources can be found in particular, so that there are currently no concrete intentions for the realisation within another province. We must certainly continue to follow up on this dossier, also on the basis of the results of the impact analysis, given the positive experiences we have with the centres so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u83	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Organised crime must indeed be dealt with in an organised manner. Local authorities play a crucial role in this. The ARIECs participate in this and also ensure that flex actions and uniform regulations can be approved in the municipalities. In short, real progress is being made on the ground. That is why I am pleased to hear that the pilot projects are being considered as a final tinder in the federal police. It seems to us very useful to extend the same operation to the other provinces.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u84	Minister, a few days ago the press leaked a leak into the Kucham file. In particular, it appears that a political official has been given information about an imminent police operation in this case and has brought it to the attention of a person who is one of the individuals monitored in the context of the investigation concerned. The source of the leak was reportedly subject to disciplinary proceedings and has been dismissed since then. Minister, can you confirm to us the information that a political official has benefited from information about the development of a judicial file in which his or her entourage may have been concerned? How did this breach of professional secrecy reach the authorities? Can you tell us what service the person responsible for the leak was assigned to? Do you confirm that disciplinary action has been taken against him? Apart from this disciplinary procedure, have any judicial action been reserved for this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u85	Mr Rigot, in the course of the judicial investigation to which you refer, a police officer is suspected of a possible violation of professional secrecy. In this regard, the disciplinary authorities were informed in 2019 of a possible violation of professional secrecy at the time the police officer was arrested on the indictment of the investigating judge of the judicial investigation. At the time of the incident, this police officer belonged to the central services of the Federal Judicial Police. Finally, the statutory measures will be taken as soon as the disciplinary authority has access to the judicial file or has been informed of a judicial decision. In the meantime, all necessary precautionary measures have been taken: prohibition of working in a police service, withdrawal of the legitimation card, return of the service weapon, withdrawal of access to police databases, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u86	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hope you will keep us informed of the follow-up. I will not fail to return to you if necessary because these are indeed serious facts, which cast reproach on the police services and which are worrying about the separation of functions and powers necessary for the proper management of our State and for the trust of the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u87	Madam Minister, my question will be slightly different from the written version because last week there was an exchange of views in the Chamber with Mr De Mesmaeker. In your policy statement, you indicated that you would take an initiative around the excited delirium syndrome (EDS) to work together with the medical world. This is, I believe, an important dossier. The exchange of views last week showed that a lot of steps would have been taken, but this is still unclear for me. I am aware that a thorough elaboration takes time, but that does not mean that we must be able to offer a rapid perspective to the various services, because only in this way can the risk of new abuses, such as in the Chovanec dossier, with which the syndrome was highlighted, be reduced as much as possible. We note that there are poignant cases in the field of persons with very different problems being taken into custody. There is therefore an urgent need for a comprehensive framework. That is why I have the following questions for you. Why should we not expect results from the multidisciplinary working group until the end of this year? Will the other emergency services, such as ambulances and firefighters, be involved in the training? How is the involvement of the medical world organised in concrete terms? Please explain more about your plans and their timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u88	Madam Secretary, I would like to join Mrs Gabriel's questions. Furthermore, I would just like to say what the reason for my question is. Mr De Mesmaeker explained the various stages on 26 January, so that was quite clear, but when we asked about the timing, there was actually no answer. So what is the right timing of all this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u89	Mr President, honourable Members, as explained by the Commissioner-General, the training dossier is being developed in several steps. The first part of the training module consists of phenomenon recognition and the exchange of good practice. The recognition file and the syllabus were completed and the training is currently being rolled out. Training for the special units and special assistance teams has now been completed. Training according to the principle train the trainer for the first-line services is in full swing. At present 185 trainers have been formed in that module. There are already more than 200 training sessions planned within the integrated police for each 40 participants up to the Easter holiday. In addition, the module is integrated into the basic training Inspector starting in 2021. The second training module, the intervention in excited delirium syndrome (EDS), has been realized for the special assistance units and is now provided for the first-line services. The module provides practical exercises in common conditions. The recognition file and the syllabus are currently being finalised and still need to be validated by the HOC and the Integrated Police Coordination Committee. Following validation, police school violence control monitors will be trained with priority, so that these intervention techniques are included in basic training. The roll-out of this course module 2 is provided after Easter, if the sanitary condition so permits. The third training module will be wider than just EDS and include other similar psychological phenomena. It is clear that this issue requires a multidisciplinary approach. That is why a working party on police intervention was set up in the event of medical emergencies. A first orientation meeting was held on 5 February. The aim is to create a training module dealing with confused persons. The approval file of module 1 also allows participants of disciplines 1 and 2, as well as the calltakers of the 112 plants. In the preparation of the training module, the medical world was involved and the document of the Amsterdam police, the Excited Delirium Syndrome Directive, developed in collaboration with various medical services, was an important source of inspiration. With regard to the police component, the training files, including pedagogical procedures and approach, are systematically submitted to the HOC. The HOC acts as a committee for prevention and well-being at work and the syndicated partners are a decisive partner in this. The trade unions are also part of the working group to shape the third training module. I cannot therefore give you a specific date for this, but we are working hard on it today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u90	Mr President, Minister, you mentioned training in particular, and we discussed it in the Committee on Justice in September in connection with the Chovanec case. It is very good and also necessary for it to come into training. The current staff also has problems with this problem on a daily basis. As mayor of a small area, I can confirm that this does not only affect large areas. It's all over the place. Everyone needs a proper framework. I'm a little surprised it's all taking so long, but of course that's not just your responsibility. If I am well informed, we have been working on this since 2014 and today we are in 2021. I am a little surprised that no meeting has yet taken place with the multidisciplinary working group, which was announced, between the police and the medical world. After all, it is there, in addition to, of course, the training offer, that urgent agreements must be made. The Chovanec file shows that. I really hope we are not going to wait until there is a new file. I therefore ask you to make urgent work of this multidisciplinary team and of a good framework for our police services, as indeed exists in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u91	Mr President, Minister, I thought I understood that this multidisciplinary working group had just met on 5 February.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u92	I understand that this was another working group, not the multidisciplinary working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u93	We all know it's very important. It must be done urgently, but it must also be done properly. So I understand there'll be some time. I'd also like to ask you not to forget the parquets. In the Chovanec case, it was the telephone call that asked to lock the man up, while they may also be aware of certain symptoms in order to better assess whether a person should be locked up or not. This is not only in the interests of the person who has to undergo all this, but also in the interests of all the people on the ground, who ultimately only want to do good and do their job. It's very bad if they can't give you the care someone needs at some point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u94	Minister, thank you for the accuracy of your answer. Of course, I am pleased to hear that the training modules are being developed and that some will soon join the basic training of inspectors. As my colleagues have pointed out, the situation is urgent. Therefore, I would like no one to be forgotten in the consultation. It is also important that all our actors on the ground, potentially confronted with such situations, be given adequate training. I am thinking in particular of firefighters, paramedics, etc. In view of the urgency, I would ask you to ensure that all these people are well trained in this type of syndrome in the coming months. I thank you, of course, for moving this issue forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u95	Federal police have filed a permit for a slip school in Kampenhout. The slip school covers an area of 10 hectares in the middle of the Hellebos. The school itself has been operating illegally for almost five years, because without a permit. The Hellebos has been recognised as a valuable natural area for Flanders and Europe and is part of the European Habitats Directive and of the Ferry Region. At the beginning of 2018, operators on the site had already cut a hundred trees without a permit. There are also reports of zonal constructions, unauthorized hardening and illegal groundwater extraction. The presence of the school also has a negative impact on the valuable nature reserve. There is a double fence, which forms a barrier for all kinds of animals. The activities themselves cause light pollution, noise, air pollution and probably also soil pollution, as the site is not connected to the public sewage system. The Municipality of Kampenhout has for years opposed the further exploitation of the slip school at that location and has insisted on relocation. Federal police claim there are no suitable alternative locations available. However, it appears that no thorough investigation has been carried out. In the context of the conservation and expansion of forests in the fight against climate warming, do you think it is justified to grant an unlimited environmental permit for a slip school at that location? Is the permit application for slip school in the Hellebos compatible with the national biodiversity strategy and the European biodiversity strategy, to which the national strategy is aligned? Would the granting of a licence correspond to the increased ambitions of the federal government regarding the protection of the environment and biodiversity, since the Hellebos is a natural area where both the Flemish standstill principle and the European conservation objective apply? Is the claim that there is no alternative location for the slip school supported by a thorough investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u96	Mr Vanbesien, since 1992 the former State Guard and subsequently the Federal Police have been using a vehicle control training centre in Kampenhout on a military domain, which was used by the Defence Department from 1959 to 1992, after which it became the property of the Buildings Regie. Most of the infrastructure was created in 1960 and must be considered licensed. The site has grown historically and dates from long before there was any nature protection. The domain itself is not covered by the Habitats Directive, because it was explicitly excluded from protection because of its military purpose. The continuing training centre was licensed in 1996 and 1998 because it did not have a military function alone. As the environmental permit expired, a new application for an environmental permit was submitted. The application shall include, inter alia, the necessary sound studies, an appropriate preliminary assessment and an enhanced nature test as well as the request for exemption from the EIA requirement. The application, submitted to the province of Flemish Brabant, is pending today and was in the public investigation phase on 5 February 2021. On the one hand, the federal police are well aware of the importance of the natural value of the environment and also have knowledge of the objections of the municipal board of Kampenhout against the activities in the domain. On the other hand, continuing training is essential for the specialized services of the integrated police as well as for other security services, including military units. We are convinced that these activities can also take place with respect for the immediate environment. In order to ensure maximum and optimal protection of both interests, the federal police consults with the municipality of Kampenhout on the extinct scenario for the operation of the training centre at that location, so that the federal police can in the meantime find an alternative site for the establishment of a new slip school. Pending this, the federal police is ready to reduce the area used for its training activities to the extent technically possible and to redesign a part of the area of the Buildings Regie in consultation with the municipality for forest and nature management. The current situation is therefore temporary. In the meantime, the services concerned by the Federal Police and the Buildings Control are identifying alternative locations as soon as possible, so that, in the long term, the training opportunities and facilities necessary for the safety services for vehicle control can also be guaranteed without interruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u97	Madam Secretary, if I understand you correctly, it is the intention that an alternative location be sought effectively. After all, we do not dispute that it is activities that fit in with training and further training for the police. The licence currently being applied for is therefore temporary and intended to cover the intermediate period. I'm glad to hear that, and I'll ask you for a status report on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u98	Minister, a Royal Order of April 22, 2020 introduced a provision for travel expenses in federal public services. While this royal order is probably a good thing for the continuity of public service and for accompanying public servants in their daily financial burden during this difficult period, I cannot imagine that this order was not taken without a budget estimate being made for federal services. Before the new government was installed, I had been able to ask your predecessor about this issue. He had confirmed to me that this royal order was aimed at the federal police and the local police areas. We are here before an umpteenth federal decision that impacts the management of local police services. I was able to hear you in committee a short time ago replying to this question that the impact of taking over travel expenses for police areas would be reduced in view of the precise period covered by the Royal Decree, so I quote you "indemnification is provided only for travel during the first wave, which significantly limits the costs associated with this measure." Do you confirm that this provision applies only to the travel expenses of staff who went to work during the period from 18 March to 30 June 2020 within the Federal Police and the local police areas? On the basis of what criteria was it decided that this measure would not apply to the periods following the first wave of the covid-19 pandemic in which we find ourselves? What is the financial cost to the federal police of this provision? What department in your department has been carried out to estimate the cost of this provision for local areas? What is the financial cost of this provision for all the police areas of our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u99	Colleagues, I can confirm that the Royal Decree of 22 April 2020 is also applicable to the integrated police for the period from 18 March to 30 June. I am also referring here to my answer to Mrs Taquin's written question No 52, in which the philosophy of this mechanism is set out. Thus, given the unique status in force within the integrated police force, both federal and local police officers are entitled to and benefit from this allowance. However, it is important to remember that each employer is responsible for the compensation of these travel expenses. For the federal police, these will be covered by the personal credits of the federal police. As for the local police, each police area will have to impact its own budget. With respect to the criteria considered, they were defined by the then Minister of Public Service, Mr.Clarinval. In calculating the cost of these costs, the impact for the Federal Police amounts to a total amount of more than 2,678,000 euros. To date, the federal staff members concerned may already apply for reimbursement of these costs. However, it is impossible for me to quantify the total cost to the local police because of the lack of centralized data available. However, I can legitimately assume that taking into account the shorter distances between home and workplace of local police area staff, this amount will be proportionately lower at the local level. Finally, I sent a letter to the Chairman of the Standing Committee on Local Police, in which I would like to point out that there is no provision for any intervention from the federal budget for the benefit of the local police. The same is also true for federal departments that have to cover such operating costs from their available appropriations. Mr Vandenput, I must indeed confirm some delays in the reimbursement of regular and medical costs. The delay will be eliminated as soon as possible by a number of interventions in the operation of the unit concerned within the Federal Police Medical Service. The delay is partly due to problems linked to the recruitment of staff to the service concerned. In the meantime, the service was also strengthened. Once the new employees are fully trained, the service will work at full capacity again. I also note that the processes of this service can be optimized by digitizing them. These concerns are addressed as a matter of priority and this will positively affect the delay in reimbursement. The problem was discussed with the trade unions on 28 January, during a negotiation, after which the strike notice was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u100	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which is far from satisfying me. Your previous answer was already far from satisfying me. It's still important, Madam Minister. What I can't understand is that in the end, this decision was taken by the federal government without prior consultation with the employers, the police areas. So the federal decides, and the police zones have to pay. I cannot accept that, Madam Minister. Your predecessor, Pieter De Crem, had done what was necessary in the first wave. Today, I will table a motion of recommendation requesting you to intervene in the reimbursement of travel allowances between home and normal work place by private vehicle by police area personnel during the co-vid period. And also, I stress: the government must commit itself to no longer taking decisions that have an impact on local government budgets without prior consultation. This seems to me to be very important. I table this motion for a recommendation
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u101	Minister, I hear the explanations. Again, it is a decision taken by the federal government without consultation with the local. This is a new budgetary impact for local police areas on the basis of a federal decision. If this is legitimate for the staff, it is again costs that will be borne by the police areas and necessarily by the communes. I therefore insist that there should be consultation. When a measure is taken at the federal level, the impact on local areas must be assessed, taken into account and provided with substantial and legitimate assistance. I shall return to the question of the NAPAP subside. We are moving forward at the local level without the means available. Communes and police areas are not milk cows!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u102	Madam Minister, I obviously agree with the considerations put forward by my colleague Taquin, who knows them even better than I do by virtue of his local mandate. I can only share his various observations and will not repeat them. I will simply ask you to act as quickly as possible, to consult the local and the necessary authorities and to make the arrangements, as your predecessor has been able to do in the past, because today we can no longer exert such financial pressure on our local police areas. My colleague used the term "milk cows" which I particularly appreciate. She's pictured, but I think we'll all understand her. Today we must ask you to react to this. I'm counting on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u103	Madam Minister, I am pleased that the problem is being addressed and that digitalisation is being used. More people are now available at the service. I have heard from the trade unions that all new dossiers will be paid out within the month, but that the delay is still eight months. Maybe you can see if this can't be solved faster. In any case, I am pleased to hear that there has been talk and that a solution has been found.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u104	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Josy Arens and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Josy Arens and the response of the Minister of the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to Article 4 of the Royal Decree of 22 April 2020 laying down special measures for personnel of the federal public service in the context of the health crisis related to the covid-19 virus, applicable to federal public servants; - having regard to the Royal Decree of 26 June 2020 repealing in particular Article 4 thereof, Whereas the abovementioned Article 4 provided for the reimbursement of travel expenses by car between the home and the place of work for staff members of the federal administrations; - Whereas this measure automatically applies to members of the local and federal police services under an article bridge of police status; - considering that the measure was decided by the federal authorities without prior consultation with the employers, i.e. the police areas; Whereas this decision is liable to affect the budget of the local authorities; asks the government, - to intervene in the reimbursement of travel allowances between the home and the usual place of work carried out by police area personnel in private vehicles during the co-vid period; - undertake not to take any more decisions that impact the budget of local authorities without prior consultation." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Josy Arens and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Josy Arens and the response of the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to Article 4 of the Royal Decree of 22 April 2020 laying down special measures for staff of the federal public office in the context of the health crisis resulting from COVID-19, applicable to federal officials; - having regard to the Royal Decree of 26 June 2020 aimed in particular at repealing Article 4 thereof, - whereas the abovementioned Article 4 provided for the reimbursement of costs incurred by the staff of the Federal Administration for the transfer of cars between the place of residence and the workplace; - whereas, pursuant to an article of the police statute, this measure automatically applies to the members of the local and federal police; - whereas the decision on this measure was taken by the Federal Government without prior consultation with employers, namely the police zones; - whereas this decision is of such a nature that it has serious repercussions on the budget of local authorities; asks the government - to contribute to the reimbursement of allowances for movements between the place of residence and the usual workplace made during the covid period by the staff of the police zones by private vehicles, - undertake not to take any more decisions which have an impact on the budget of local authorities without prior consultation. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Franky Demon. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Franky Demon. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. Questions Nos 55013291C by Mr Demon and 55013871C by Mrs Chanson are transformed into written questions. Madam Secretary, it's 5:45 p.m. Can we continue to meet for a while, or should we end our work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u105	Mr President, I have just listened very carefully. As far as I'm concerned, we can go on for a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u106	Good.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u107	Mr President, Minister, I will not outline the circumstances. I am particularly concerned about something related to the reports we have received about the incident; if they are already true. In other painful cases, we could often read a follow-up in the press, because these people had family and friends who stood up for their cause. Now, since the last feat, namely a small manifestation in memory of Abbedou, I no longer read about the causes, about what happened, whether there have been investigations, whether there is medical expertise. That is why my question is what you are aware of. What's going on right now? What's being investigated? It's very poignant. No matter how bad it is to be forgotten in a police cell, it doesn't normally kill people. What happened in that cell? What happened to this person so he died? There is also the aspect of not helping a person in need. If he had been released, as he normally should have been, and he would have become unwell on the street, he might have gotten the help he needed at the time. I'm speculating here, of course. This is a serious problem, isn't it? I know you can't explain everything, but can you tell us what the current cases are? Who's doing this? Can we clarify this in the short term? I fear that not many people are standing up for Mr Abbedou at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u108	Like my colleague, I have a few questions about the events of January 19. Minister, I'm going to go straight to my questions. I would like you to clarify the chronology of this tragedy that occurred last January, but also to clarify the conditions under which Mr.Abbedou died. An investigation may be underway - you will probably tell us in the answers within a few minutes. I would ask you to stick to what we can know and what we can know at this stage. I would also like to know how it can be explained that the police would not have been notified of the order to leave the territory until 8 p.m., when the decision of the Aliens Office was issued at about 1:30 p.m. What follow-up will be given to this tragic event in relation to our police services? Like my colleague, I would like to know whether you can also confirm that an investigation is under way or not, and what exists at this stage. Indeed, following the various incidents that have taken place in recent weeks, it seems unfortunately to attract a little less attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u109	Mr President, Mrs Ingels and Mrs Chanson, I share the surprise at the reports that have come to us and about what has happened. I also have questions about how things went. In any event, I can inform you today that the death of Mr Ilyes Abbedou on 19 January this year led to the opening of a number of investigations by the office of the King's Attorney in Brussels. I am very cautious because all this judicial information is part of the secret of the investigation. Therefore, I cannot give much information today. You can count on me to follow up on this case. I share your question. It's important that we know exactly what happened in this cell.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u110	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I hope you'll keep us informed. If not, we will ask a question again regularly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u111	Madam Minister, I agree with my colleague's considerations and I hope that we can shed some light on the course of events. I count on you to send us this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u112	Mr President, in the hope that my other questions can also be addressed today, I refer to my written preparation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u113	Mrs Pas, your question is in line with the question you raised at the beginning of December when presenting my policy statement. As I indicated to you then, the government agreement expressly states that the government will prepare legislative texts in this legislature, including in the areas of the division of powers, financing rules and the institutions. I can therefore confirm once again that the special financing law will be examined during this legislature and that legislation on funding will also be prepared by the government. I can also confirm that funding will be included in the survey which I will organise together with my French-speaking colleague, Mr Clarinval, to prepare for the revision and reform of the state structure. This will also be the subject of discussions in the thematic working groups and political dialogue. You will understand that at the moment I cannot anticipate the outcome of that process and that there are no substantive details yet, but as I explained to you earlier, it is certainly on the radar to be included in the exercise and our preparations today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u114	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I have, of course, already raised the problem in the discussion of the policy statement, but there is a new, up-to-date calculation of transfers, which is going up again. Even with the minimum calculation, it turns out to be 1,000 euros a year per Fleming, including babies and pensioners. It seems to me, therefore, that it is only normal to say that I am glad that you can confirm that the matter will be taken up and will certainly be raised. You have indeed said that the special financing law will be dealt with. The total amount involved is EUR 900 million in transfers. However, the billions are, on the one hand, in the federal budget, and, on the other hand, through social security. As you clearly stated at the time that, as stated in your policy statement, interpersonal solidarity is not affected, I was concerned that transfers in social security could not be discussed. However, if I have understood you correctly, there are no taboos. I am therefore waiting to see what concrete results will be obtained from the dialogue platform and its implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u115	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55013359C, 55013362C and 55013364C by Mrs Jadin were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Cogolati's 55013375C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u116	Dear colleague, all reports from Committee P to the federal police are summarized by its internal audit department. The summary systematically incorporates all the recommendations published by Committee P concerning the Federal Police. The Directorates-General and Directorates-General of the departments concerned are then asked about their implementation. A regular follow-up is carried out and communicated by the commissariat-general to the President of Committee P at their bilateral meetings. As far as the local police are concerned, without being able to have a general view of what is happening in each police area, I note, in my contacts with the corps chiefs already met, that they are attentive to the recommendations of Committee P and, to the extent possible, ensure that they are implemented within their organization.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u117	Mr President, Madam Minister, as you will have understood, this question was in fact the link with some of our previous topical debates. Thank you for that clarification. I will probably come back to you with more specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u118	Mr President, Madam Minister, at the committee on 13 January, we had been able to discuss various problems that have arisen and you told me in your answer that there were problems of coverage, which could not be optimal. My question is this. Can you explain what are these ecological and economic constraints that prevent better coverage of the ASTRID network and ultimately a better communication guarantee for our police and rescue services?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u119	Ms. Song, the network currently has a geographic coverage of 99.96% of the territory on mobile and 95.92% on outdoor mobile. It is therefore a cover that is already very extensive. Achieving 100% coverage remains a goal for ASTRID, but there are several challenges. At the ecological level, ASTRID regularly encounters difficulties in obtaining town planning permits, especially in natural areas that are often less well covered. We must be aware that the increase in network coverage goes hand in hand with the construction of antennas. ASTRID tries to take advantage of existing masts wherever possible, which is not always possible. These antennas have an ecological impact. Citizens are also opposed to the arrival of these antennas for aesthetic or public health reasons. Furthermore, at the economic level, ASTRID is limited by the budget envelope set under the management contract. The construction of new masts has a significant cost. Choices should therefore be made on the basis of the priorities given by the user organisations themselves. With regard to the definition of priority sites, it is the User Advisory Committee which sets out the priorities of potential future sites for the construction of additional relay antennas for outdoor radio coverage. These sites are designated by the relief and security services on the basis of an operational analysis and on the basis of available means. It should also be added that the realization of such construction sites requires time, not only in terms of obtaining the planning permit but also subsequently in terms of construction work. It should also be remembered that for indoor cover, inside the buildings, it is the owners of large projects that bear the responsibility. To this end, section 22 of the ASTRID Act has been amended. I hope, Madame Chanson, that my answers will allow you to see the various challenges ASTRID is facing and how it is trying to find solutions both internally and with partners on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u120	Madam Minister, thank you for your clarification and your very detailed answer, which complements the previous answers you provided to me. You have in front of you a congresswoman almost satisfied.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u121	Mr Demon, there are five combined questions on this subject. However, you are the only one still here. It's your right to ask the question, but we can also postpone them. What do you want to do?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u122	Mr President, I will not postpone my question, but I am referring to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u123	Mr Demon, as indicated in the debate on racism, I will take an initiative to review the disciplinary status of the integrated police. I will not wait too long, but I will of course not rush to do so either. The attempts of my predecessors have shown that this cannot be separated from a broader debate on the attractiveness of the police, including and above all with the trade unions. Simplification, transparency and rationalisation of the procedure are important issues for me, as well as safeguarding the principles inherent in our rule of law, including respect for the rights of defence of those concerned. As regards the case of the police officer in Anderlecht, whose disciplinary action was set aside by the Council of State for breach of any of the time-limits laid down by law, it can be noted that those time-limits for the disciplinary judge are based on the obligation on the State to clarify as quickly as possible the legal status of a staff member who is subject to a possible disciplinary procedure. The Council of State is very strict in its assessment of the overrun of the time limit for proceedings. The most common reasons for exceeding the time limits include an incorrect assessment of the start of the period and the time required for an alleged disciplinary case to reach the competent disciplinary authority. These difficulties will also be examined in the context of the proposed adjustment of the disciplinary procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u124	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I thought I had also asked you how far the specific disciplinary procedure for those involved in the Chovanec case is right. Maybe there's no further information on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u125	Excuse me, that's what was lost in the generality of my answer. In the meantime, the general inspection has closed the preliminary investigations. In the meantime, some disciplinary proceedings have already been initiated, both by the disciplinary authorities in the police and at my level as well as higher discipline for the officers for whom I am the disciplinary officer. I myself have initiated a disciplinary procedure with a view to serious disciplinary action against three senior officers. One of these procedures was launched together with the Minister of Justice. Out of respect for the rights of defence and in order to safeguard the procedure, as long as the procedure is under way, I will not explain the alleged breach of discipline itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u126	Madam Secretary, severe disciplinary procedures have been initiated against a few people, but I understand that you are not yet in a position to report to whom.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u127	Question No 55013411C by Mrs Thibaut becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u128	Mr President, Madam Minister, during our discussions at the end of last year on the distribution of the Road Safety Fund (TSF) for local police areas, you indicated that you would take steps to ensure that the areas do not suffer from financial shortages. You told me that you would organize the necessary consultations in this regard. Meanwhile, the budgets of the police zones had to be closed. You are aware that many federal decisions can affect the management of local police services. We have just talked about the cost of travel. Minister, what are the services responsible for evaluating the distribution of the Road Safety Fund? On what basis was it decided to inform the police areas of the lack of precise revenues in 2021? What steps and consultations have you undertaken with CPPL and the areas under the Road Safety Fund since last November? Do you confirm that police areas will not be financially affected by road safety services and work? When will you be able to provide specific information to the zones on the amounts allocated to them for the year 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u129	Mr. Chairman, Ms. Taquin, the FPS Finance collects the road safety revenues and calculates the annual amount, as provided for in section 3 of the Act of 6 December 2005 on the allocation of a portion of federal road safety revenues. The Administrative and Technical Secretariat of my Office then provides the calculations for the distribution of revenue in the Road Safety Fund, in accordance with articles 4 and 6 of the same Law. In this case, this service was concerned with the Crossborder End service of the FPS Justice, the impact of the pandemic on revenues for 2020, which it had to assess on the basis of the fees recognized. According to this assessment, the amount of the funds might not be sufficient to cover the first tranche of the Road Safety Fund, which is why I decided not to provide them to the police at first. Following a second request, it appears that the amount of duties recognized was higher than the valuations. As a result, I authorized the police areas to enter the same amount as was recorded in 2019. CPPL and police areas were informed about the impact of the pandemic on the 2020 road safety revenues and the financial impact on the Road Safety Fund. The SRF is dependent on road safety revenues that themselves depend on police findings of offences that fall under federal jurisdiction. This funding cannot therefore be considered as sustainable funding for police areas. I can't confirm that the police areas will not be financially harmed. Finally, in the course of March, the FPS Finance must report the final amount of 2020 road safety revenues. Based on this information, the amount will be calculated and communicated to the police areas. In the light of the latest information in my possession, it is more than likely that the amount of the first instalment will be paid in full to the police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u130	Madam Minister, thank you for the clarification you have given us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u131	Minister, as part of the vaccination campaign, it is essential to ensure the optimal security of the vaccination centres as well as the storage and distribution facilities. In this context, provisions are needed at the level of law enforcement agencies. While it is essential that security arrangements be put in place, we also know how difficult it is for police areas to ensure that all basic police missions are currently carried out and that health measures taken in the context of the pandemic (coverage, distancing, regrouping, closures, wearing masks, etc.) are respected. You also know that many areas are structurally understaffed. Therefore, the addition of such security missions must be planned in a concerted manner and on a case-by-case basis, depending on the location and the number of such missions. In fact, you sent a letter to the mayors asking them to carry out risk analyses for the safety of vaccination centres. Minister, what number of federal police have been made available to these vaccination, storage and distribution sites? Has the DAB been able, while its capacity is not optimal, to provide part of the security of these places from now on? Do you consider these places critical? Has a list of locations been sent to the police zone directorates? How long should risk analyses be carried out? What federal services are involved in planning for the security of listed sites? How are applications made to the Federal Police by the areas for support for such security in order to ensure police operationality within the perimeter of the infrastructure? Finally, has financial support been decided for applications for private child care that should be sought locally?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u132	News shows that the crisis exit strategy we are currently experiencing is vitally dependent on the vaccine. The health and life of people, the whole sections of our economy and purchasing power, and even our fundamental freedoms, depend on the production and supply of vaccines without delay. Belgium has many pharmaceutical production units, including vaccines, on its national territory. Recent news has shown us a fire in a vaccine factory in India. It also shows us the possibilities or risks of exports without control of the stocks produced. Are pharmaceutical and vaccine production plants described as critical infrastructure? If not, shouldn't they be? Should they not be subject, in this limited period of time of vaccine production, to a permanent watch by the security forces – including police – against any risk of accident, sabotage, theft or extraction of stock, damage to essential personnel...? Such a presence would also allow rapid response in the event of a fire or to ensure that a cargo produced can be properly escorted or to prevent in time any export that would be contrary to the general European interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u133	Monitoring in the context of public order missions and the securing of public places – including vaccination centres – is part of the basic police function. With regard to the safety of vaccination centres and storage facilities, I wrote to all local authorities and governors asking them to take the necessary measures and carry out a risk analysis in collaboration with their police area. In an operational risk analysis, the specific local conditions of the location concerned are examined. On this basis, additional security measures may be taken, if necessary, by the mayor, including the necessary police forces. Where appropriate, the federal police may provide methodological support for the preparation of such risk analyses. In so far as the local police's own capacity is insufficient, external reinforcements may be required in accordance with the general principle of the solidarity mechanism. If necessary, federal police support can then be provided. However, it must be realized that this is already sufficiently affected by the additional tasks linked to the health measures in force, including, for example, the provision of support for the transport of vaccines and the monitoring of compliance with the non-essential travel ban. However, the use of security management to protect vaccination centres is not a legally feasible option. Mrs Marghem, the designation of critical infrastructure is carried out on the basis of the law of 1 July 2011 and in accordance with the procedures laid down therein. The NCCN has requested and obtained from the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products (AFMPS) a list of infrastructures present in Belgium which are involved in the production, storage or distribution of vaccines against covid-19. Based on this list and an assessment by the OCAM, security measures for these sites have been requested by the NCCN from the relevant local police areas. Safety measures have also been requested by the NCCN for the transport of vaccines, which may vary depending on the volume or destination in Belgium or abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u134	Minister, I have a great deal of respect for you and your position. I know in advance that your task will not be simple. However, the police is far from being simple on a daily basis in these pandemic times. The policeman's life was already heavily impacted even before the crisis. I want to tell you that by pressing a lemon, there will be no more juice! I hear the police have to do this. I would have liked her to have the support and better collaboration with the federal police, but it is also true that the police is also very much in demand. There is no alternative. I would like positive messages to reach the police and local areas, otherwise we may be exposed to a big problem, because our police officers and police areas are not inexhaustible sources. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u135	I thank the Minister for the clarifications she provided in the responses. I know that pharmaceutical plants are not in fact included in the legal framework of critical infrastructures. However, my question was whether, from the minister's perspective, they should not be? There, I don't have an answer. On the other hand, police surveillance around and around vaccine manufacturing is probably the measure I expected. I am happy to hear that it does exist. I also hear my colleague reporting on all the difficulties experienced by law enforcement officials at this particular time of health crisis. I would not like to load the boat in terms of surveillance around and around the production and transport of vaccines. Let us hope that the measures you have taken so far are sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u136	Debates of the European Parliament 55013430C by Mr Van Hecke has gone without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u137	Mr President, Minister, in the meantime we have heard the just news of the ruling of the Antwerp correctional court in the case against the Iranian diplomat Assadollah Assadi. Last Thursday, he was sentenced to 20 years in prison for his role in planning a foiled terrorist attack in 2018 at a conference in Paris. On the Iranian side, the wind remained still for a few days, until yesterday the press announced that Iran was calling on the Belgian ambassador to release the Iranian diplomat. Although this call is not entirely unexpected, Iran has already stated in the past in a threatening tone that it would not accept a negative verdict. The accused diplomat himself also indicated at the beginning of last year that armed groups would be ready to take action if the ruling of the Belgian court were to be unfavourable. Last week, your fellow Minister Van Quickenborne announced that nothing would be left to chance on the day of the trial. The necessary security measures have indeed been taken. Madam Minister, did you then have further discussions with your colleague of justice, with the OCAD, the Security of the State and, where appropriate, the ADIV in general, in our country after the court ruling? Is it also taking into account a possible increased long-term threat?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u138	Mr President, Mrs Samyn, your question is somewhat overtaken by the facts. I have very regular meetings with the OCAD. There we also discuss the general level of threat. The OCAD makes the analyses. Today there is no reason to change that level as a result of the process. Of course, the specific locations will be looked at. For operational and security reasons, I cannot go into all the police and other measures that result from this, but you can be sure that I will continue the discussions and follow-up with the OCAD intensively on these issues as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u139	Madam Secretary, I fully understand the delicateness of the dossier. I also hope that Iranian elements and the possible presence of Iranian cells on our territory will be focussed not only in the short term but also in the long term by the various security services. In this I think we need vigilance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u140	Mr President, Minister, I did not think we were going to get this far, and I thank you for that. I have submitted this question in response to the many incidents in police cells over the last few weeks and months. Often there are CCTV images, but not always. How's that taken care of? I know there's a royal decision, but it's the municipalities and the police councils themselves that decide whether to install cameras. Is that often done? What's the percentage? Where are there cameras and where aren't they? How long can these images be kept? Are there any restrictions on privacy? I found very little information about that. How is that even arranged? Those cameras in police cells can certainly clarify a number of things if something happens, but there are also privacy considerations. How is that arranged? Do you foresee entanglements or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u141	There is a KB of 14 September 2007. In light of the recent problems, I have asked for cameras to be standardized in all of the federal police stations to be renovated or new police cells. The same recommendation I made to the local police zones. The federal police are currently conducting a comprehensive analysis of all these police cells. An initial analysis reveals that about a third of these cells are equipped with cameras. Our goal is for all federal police cells to be equipped with cameras in the long term and no later than 2027. As regards the number of cameras in the local police zones, no precise figures are currently available. In the federal police system the images are kept for a period of up to 12 months. If the images are not retrieved, the recordings are automatically deleted by the system after this period. In order to gain access to the images in the first month, it is necessary to demonstrate the operational motivation and necessity for the performance of certain tasks. After the first month, access to the images may only be granted for purposes of judicial police and only by a written and reasoned decision of the King's Attorney. The law on police officers does not expressly provide for direct access to the images of the general inspection. However, there is a possibility to communicate personal data and information to the general inspection for the performance of its statutory tasks. As regards guarantees for citizens and police staff, I can tell you that access to this personal data and information is secure and is also registered. Citizens and staff shall also have the possibility to exercise their rights in relation to such images on the basis of indirect procedures through the control body. The finality of the cameras is important not only with a view to a purely controlling approach, but also with a view to realising the fundamental rights and freedoms of everyone. Camera images can contribute to truth finding. With regard to the events of 24 January, an internal investigation was carried out as every time facts were reported. The Internal Affairs Department of the Brussels Police Area Capitale Ixelles received six complaints for various reasons, not just for alleged violence. We do not know at this stage whether Committee P has been brought before it. All cells in the cell complex of the Brussels Capital Ixelles police area managing the arrests of the current life in the said area are equipped with cameras. The same applies to excavations and corridors. The Etterbeek cell complex, which is made available during the major order services, is not yet equipped. This is a federal police complex and an equipment project is underway. Meanwhile, the police services managed by the Brussels Capitale Ixelles police zone are set up by the Brussels Capitale Ixelles zone, with a mobile camera recording the operations in this complex.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u142	Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u143	Minister, thank you for your clarification and detailed answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u144	Questions Nos 55013571 and 55013572C by Mr Senesael and 55013542 and 55013546 by Ms Song are postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55023573C by Mr Senesael is without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u145	Mr President, dear colleague Chanson, several thousand people had announced that they had responded to the call to protest on 31 January at the Brussels-Central railway station. Many of them had expressed their intention to use violence if they were prevented from demonstrating referring to the riots taking place in the Netherlands. In order to comply with the covid measures prescribed by the Ministerial Order and in order to avoid the announced incidents, the administrative authority did not authorize the holding of this event. The police and the competent authorities have communicated widely on this subject, advising against coming to the rally. On 31 January, from 10.30 a.m., large groups headed for Brussels, some of them by train, while others were already gathering near the Brussels-Central railway station. The groups on the trains consisted mainly of hooligans. Almost 150 of them were stopped as soon as they descended from the train to the various stations in Brussels. The assembly at the Brussels-Central railway station had several hundred people, which did not correspond to the limitations imposed by the ministerial decree of 28 October 2020 and the covid measures were only very little respected. The police decided to dissuade the participants, inviting them to leave the premises with the help of plainclothes or classic uniforms. As this had no effect, it was decided to disperse the imposing group. On each occasion, large groups were re-established and the vast majority refused to leave. The police then decided to confine the group as a whole. Then, those present were again invited to leave the premises after being identified. Despite this, most of them refused to leave or regrouped. Taking into account the circumstances, a total of 434 persons were temporarily detained out of the 488 arrested. At the Brussels-Central railway station more specifically, 54 people left voluntarily and 284 were temporarily detained.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u146	Madam Minister, thank you for your clarification, your information and your more precise figures than those that have been circulating to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u147	Minister, as part of the civil protection reform aimed at reorganizing barracks, functions and staff, it is planned to integrate 24-hour shift work into the system. While this rhythm may eventually be conceived for civil protection, it is misconceived for other civil security services, such as firefighters. In my view, shifts of 12 hours or more would be particularly problematic for the health of firefighters. In addition, it is difficult to imagine that a firefighter can show the same degree of attention and efficiency for 24 hours of continuous work. The safety of the worker, the safety of his colleagues, and also the effectiveness and quality of his intervention with regard to the citizens he is supposed to help. Minister, therefore, my question is as follows. Do you confirm to me that a 24-hour shift work regime, as provided for in the Civil Protection Act, is or is not on the agenda for other civil security services?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u148	Mrs Song, as far as the other civil security services are concerned, I can inform you that the 24-hour shift exists in some emergency areas. In 2016, my predecessor had drawn the attention of the zones to the various problems related to this type of hourly regime in order to discourage the zones from extending this regime to posts where it did not exist before the passage into the zone. In addition, in 2018, the Civil Security Act was amended to allow federal supervision of compliance with the Firefighters' Working Time Act. Emergency areas enjoy a wide range of autonomy in order to determine the hourly regime of their operational personnel, but within the limits laid down by the regulations. A 24-hour structural shift regime is not in line with the regulation and decision of a rescue zone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u149	Thank you for your clarification, minister, I will not fail to pass on this information to the various people in the field who have questioned me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u150	Mr President, Madam Minister, before I begin my speech, I would like to thank the interpreters for their work, which is far from obvious, especially at late hours. Madam Minister, we learned in the press just a few days ago that a police area had quarantined all its personnel on January 30th. This incident clearly demonstrates the urgency of proposing a vaccine as soon as possible to our police officers, as I call for in another of my questions. But I'm coming back to the Brabant East Wallon Police Area. Minister, how could the basic police service be properly insured during this quarantine period? As we speak, the results of the tests carried out are probably known. Can you give us any information about this? How many positive cases have been identified in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u151	As far as basic police tasks are concerned, from the beginning of the quarantine period, the Brabant Wallon East police zone immediately benefited from the solidarity of the Walloon Brabant districts, and more particularly the neighbouring police areas. They took over all interventions 101 covering the territory of the Brabant Wallon East police zone. Additional teams have been set up by the nearby police areas mentioned, so as to resume all weekend breaks until Monday, 1 February. As of Monday, February 1st and throughout the week, the Brabant Wallon East Police Area was supported by a CICAM team (?). At the same time as the temporary quarantine of staff members, it was decided to carry out the complete disinfection of the building and vehicles in order to limit the spread of the virus. The reception remained closed, in particular in order to be able to carry out the disinfection of the building. With regard to the closure of the police station, every citizen always has the opportunity to lodge a complaint with the nearest open police station. With regard to the prospects of a return to normalcy, since Tuesday, 2 February, the police zone has resumed operations 101 in its own territory, but with a reduced number in consultation with the occupational doctor. The full results of tests carried out on all staff members on Friday, January 29th are not yet known. A technical problem appears to have arisen, which is why it was decided, on 1 February at the end of the day, to retest all staff members for whom there was not yet a result. The Governor's services intervened to give priority to the analysis of the results of these new tests. Currently, the results are missing for three staff members. There are currently 19 confirmed covid cases and 15 40 cases in the police area. The service will resume very gradually with, as a matter of priority, applications for intervention 101. The 12-hour break will be mandatory in order to limit the number of staff to be hired per day. As soon as possible, the full reception of the central police station will be reopened. Unfortunately, it is not possible to specify a normal recovery date with certainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u152	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u153	Madam, the advantage of using mobile cameras such as bodycams is obvious. This is confirmed by the feedback from field experiments. Moreover, their rules of use are part of the law on the police function and meet the opinions of the COC. In this regulatory framework, bodycams are certainly useful and have added value. As a reminder, an integrated police working group has been set up for this purpose. It will continue its work and identify whether general principles in this area can be edited for the integrated police, taking into account respect for local self-government. I have instructed the federal police to speed up the work of this working group. The latter will also take into account the scientific study currently being carried out by the Department of the Interior. Several police areas are involved in this investigation so that all concerns are included in this study. On the basis of the results of this study and the working group, the necessary legislative initiatives will be taken and possible additional guidelines will be disseminated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u154	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will come back to you when we know the results of the working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u155	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Arens's 55013657C was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 55013660C by Mr Piedboeuf is without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u156	Mr. Chair, Minister, at our last session, we were able to discuss the recruitment of police officers and the appropriate path that candidates will have to follow in the context of this pandemic. Despite your very comprehensive and detailed information on the subject, I regret, however, a lack of precision regarding the organisation of physical tests in the context of the recruitment procedure for police aspirants. Minister, can you tell us how physical tests are organized in this pandemic context? Can you explain how they will take place under the accelerated recruitment procedure? Have any candidates been admitted without being given a favourable physical test under the recruitment procedure? Can you answer these same questions about recruitment procedures for firefighters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u157	Madam Member, in times of pandemics, fire schools have the opportunity to maintain or cancel these physical tests. The fire schools which organise these tests obviously take into account the safety of their staff and candidates. During these tests, several measures were taken, such as the maintenance of safety distances between instructor and candidate, the use of hydro-alcoholic gel or the wearing of the mask by instructors. In addition, these tests are organised in large sports halls or outside, thereby limiting the risk of spread of the virus. There is no accelerated recruitment procedure for firefighters. It is not possible to be recruited at the emergency zone level without obtaining a CIF and therefore to pass the physical tests. We are therefore not aware of such cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u158	Minister, thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u159	Mr. President, Mrs. Song, the five police officers involved were deprived of their liberty on February 2, 2021. Three of them were made available to the investigating magistrate, who placed them under arrest the following day. The other two officers were released on 2 February 2021. The facts occurred on several dates and still outside of their service, during private outings. We do not have any information as to whether they have referred to their profession, but the charges brought by the investigating judge are not an abuse of office. The General Inspectorate AIG, in its deconcentrated position in Liège, is the judicial information department under the authority of the Prosecutor of the King of Liège. The internal affairs department of the Brussels police zone Capitale Ixelles is in charge of the parallel pre-investigation, an investigation covered by the disciplinary law. Both investigations are currently under way. The head of the corps has in fact urgently asked the prosecutor of the King of Liège to obtain confirmation of the facts. The magistrate in charge of the case confirmed the arrests and transmitted other useful information in order to initiate administrative proceedings as early as 2 February 2021. The following day, he officially communicated the details of the charges brought by the investigating judge. This information enabled the Chief of Staff to initiate the necessary procedures without delay and the Police College, in its capacity as employer, was approached to initiate a breach of contract procedure for the two police officers working under contract. This end of contract took effect on February 8, 2021. For the other three police officers working under a statutory regime, a provisional suspension of their duties was decided on an urgent basis by the Chief of Staff. It took effect on February 4, 2021. The facts taking place in the private sphere, of course, do not fall within the employer's remit to monitor the private activities of staff members. Nevertheless, duties of integrity and exemplaryness are the subject of special and permanent attention on the part of the head of the corps. Integrity, whether in service or not, is one of the central axes of each of its published annual mission letters. Upstream, acts committed in the context of privacy that violate the duties of integrity are regularly punished. The psychological assessment of candidates for employment in the police force is part of the selection process organized by the Federal Police, the Recruitment and Selection Service. Among the various stages is organized the personality test. An in-depth screening is also carried out during the application process, allowing candidates not meeting the strict integrity criteria to be excluded. In the case of these five police officers, they were all recruited at the same time in 2019 as part of a Fast Track procedure. In addition to the pre-selection stages, they were heard by a selection board. They then underwent training organized by the federal police before starting their training in the police force. A final evaluation focusing on the performance of their in-service missions then enables them to be registered. In this case, these different stages have not revealed any particular problems. There are several channels through which a citizen can file a complaint for actions by members of the integrated police force: Committee P, AIG, internal control services and traditional channels for all crimes and offences. We do not have precise information on the psychological follow-up that the victim was able to receive in this case, which was taken over by the AIG of Liège.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u160	Madam Minister, thank you for all the time you have devoted to my many questions today and thank you for taking our remarks into consideration at the beginning of the committee. It is a good thing to have a slightly longer committee to go further on the agenda. I will be happy to come back to you with many other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u161	Question No 55013745C by Mrs Song is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u162	Minister, until 2017, there was an agreement between the police and UNIA. You have already partially answered these questions at the last sitting. This convention still exists in particular cases, but I wanted to know whether it was intended to be taken up in a more structural way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u163	Sir, in the preamble, I invite you to consult the answer given by my predecessor to Mrs Soors' written question No. 705. One of the advantages of the agreement between the police and UNIA is undoubtedly the priority given to integrated police when planning projects by UNIA. On the other hand, this has created strong pressure for UNIA, which has helped to put an end to the convention. Since the strict provisions of the Convention were no longer compatible with the need for dynamic collaboration between the two parties, they considered that a less binding and more flexible form of collaboration was more appropriate. The modalities and forms of this collaboration in the future still need to be discussed between the Commissioner General of the Federal Police and the management of UNIA.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u164	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u165	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for wanting to answer as many questions as possible out of respect for Parliament. That's really appreciated. I am simply referring to my question as I submitted it in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u166	Mr President, Mr Moyaers, my administration is not aware of police areas where the essential tasks of the local police can no longer be properly performed because of the workload that the presence of a psychiatric centre with forensic care on the territory of the police area entails. When developing a new financing model for local police, a multidisciplinary expert working group will examine the objective parameters to be taken into account in determining a balanced distribution of the federal funding of local police. Although it does not make sense at this stage to anticipate the conclusions of the study of this working group, it seems obvious to me that this working group will also examine the extent to which the presence of a forensic unit in the territory of a local police area should be considered as an objective parameter in order to establish a sound financing model.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u167	Madam Minister, that answer was actually very clear. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u168	Mrs Pas, that suggestion has indeed been included in the coalition agreement. It further states that it should be done without budgetary impact. It must therefore be the replacement of an existing legal holiday that falls into a weekend. Thus, each year there is one holiday to be chosen freely by the federated entities. Mr Dermagne is the functionally competent Minister for Labour. He is currently investigating how that passage can be carried out. Together with the Ministers for Institutional Reforms, he will prepare a draft. I'll wait for that analysis. That is why I cannot give you any further details at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u169	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. Do I have to be with your colleague Dermagne for a state of affairs and a follow-up question, or do I come back to you for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u170	You are quite free to do so, but since the Minister responsible is Mr Dermagne, you can certainly involve him in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u171	Then I'll definitely do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u172	Madam Minister, I have read about the articles of the Constitution to be revised in a newspaper. In order for this sitting to move forward, I refer again to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u173	Mrs Pas, as indeed provided for in the coalition agreement, a draft list would be drawn up at the beginning of the reigning period, a provisional list which would also be communicated to the Chamber and the Senate. The coalition agreement provides that that list shall include at least Article 195 of the Constitution. It is the government's intention to communicate that list in the short term. The discussions are ongoing and are at a far-reaching stage, so I can assure you that this will also be effective in the course of the next week. Since the final declaration of revision is, of course, adopted at the end of the legislature, and since that is a government decision, the provisional list will also be submitted to the government. It is therefore more than merely an informal communication from the ministers responsible for institutional reform, but of course it is not yet an official declaration for revision of the Constitution published in the Belgian Official Journal, since such a declaration automatically results in the dissolution of the Chamber and Senate, which is obviously not the intention. You're asking what the Chamber and the Senate should do with that list. It's about getting acquainted and taking note of that intention. Next, the Chamber will be invited to continue that broad inquiry within its lap on the basis of that list. Therefore, with any additional ideas to supplement that list, Chamber and Senate will be able to work. As has already been said, it is intended to be a provisional list which, at the end of the democratic debate, at the end of the legislature, will be completed with the articles needed to effectively translate the guiding recommendations into legislation that can be implemented, both on state reform and on democratic renewal. It seems logical to me that the addition to that list at the end of the legislature will also be a decision of the government. The official statement follows only at the end of the legislature, but the provisional list will already be proposed by the government, so it is not just an informal explanation by the two competent ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u174	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. As I pointed out in my question, I was concerned that the provisional list could still be adjusted at the end of the legislative term. If I understand you correctly now, that is an addition by Chamber and Senate to the provisional list, which you will already be proposing, and this does not mean deletion. After all, what is the point of a provisional list if the government changes its mind within a few years and makes changes to it in order to arrive at a completely different list? Forgive my mistrust, but in the previous legislature we were also told that there were atoma writings and such with agreements on this subject. There was nothing about that in the coalition agreement at the time. Fortunately, it already contains Article 195. At the end of the legislature, the Atomics did not appear to exist at all and we arrived at a very short list of constitutional articles. If I understand you correctly now, this government is not supposed to change its mind completely. I hope that this will be the case and that, as far as I am concerned, it will be a major addition by the parliaments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u175	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Pillen's 55013876C was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 55013943C by Mr Rigot is without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u176	Madam Secretary, in Het Laatste Nieuws on Monday 8 February, a professor raises the alarm: the police are turning square. As professor at Ghent University and chief lecturer in criminal law and criminology, Professor Jelle Janssens has the right to speak. He is also a welcome guest in our Committee on Home Affairs. I can therefore assume that we dare to take his criticisms very seriously. In 1998 the police landscape was reformed into a single integrated police force consisting of the federal and local police. The latter then consisted of 196 police zones, which in the meantime merged into 185 zones, including my own. Especially in the small zones, everything turns square according to the professor. There one sometimes gets a combi on the terrain with difficulty. He therefore called for mergers of up to 40 to 50 local police areas. He also points a finger at the wound that I have been asking for extra attention to over the last few weeks, in particular cybercrime, which we were talking about just now. It's all too often passed on to the local police zones. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. In response to the Professor's statements, you speak of a state-general following 20 years of integrated police after COVID-19. What do you think are the spearheads that need to be featured here? Do you plan that in the autumn and who will be invited to participate? We are now planning hearings on the financing of police zones. This morning, the meeting was unable to continue, but if mergers prove necessary, do you not think it is appropriate that we should first develop a plan of action on this matter? The article in question states that from 2004 onwards, a gradual saving was made by the police, which was accelerated by the financial crisis in 2008. Can you tell us whether this is an annual linear saving and how much has been saved since 2004? The cost to the local police, however, has not been reduced. Does that mean that local authorities have had to cope with these deficits and that, where this did not happen, that has effectively compromised the minimum basic care for citizens? My second question is about the local police, the proximity of the neighborhood cop. The Safety Monitor showed that 75% of the population feels safe in their own neighbourhood. That has a big part to do with feeling the proximity of the police, in the first place the neighborhood cop. The police are the first link in the security chain. Except our agents are under a lot of pressure. At the moment, there is a need for more police on the streets. The same security monitor showed that 68 percent of citizens are satisfied with the work done by the police, but much less about the presence and visibility of the police in the street. Not even half of the citizens are sufficient for this. Betting on more district agents who know what lives among the population and who can easily be addressed is therefore very important. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. In small police areas in particular, the public is less likely to see the police in the street because the police force does not have sufficient resources. However, with the word merger very often the counter argument emerges that the police are no longer so close to the citizen. What's your vision on that? Do you believe that there are enough district agents in our police landscape today to deal exclusively with the tasks of a district police force? What do you think is the ideal ratio of district agents per population?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u177	Madam Minister, in your policy paper you are referring to a citizen's questioning about the satisfaction of the proximity of the police. You are also talking about setting up an expert committee on a new financing model. Madam Secretary, will this increase in scale be taken into account in the revision of funding? Wouldn't it make more sense to start with that, then to look at how to finance the larger areas? Now, if we're doing the exercise on existing zones, I'm afraid we've left in a bitten system for ten or fifteen years. I know that this is a long-term work and that everything is coming together with you now. We may not expect miracles, but I do have a question about the methodology. How are we gonna put all these things together? I also have a question about the proximity of the police. That sounds like a very common term, but what exactly do you mean by that? Which tasks are covered? How is this defined and measured? In what way are you going to question the people about this? The local areas complain very often, quite rightly, that they can call less and less on the federal police. The whole exercise is also linked to what the federal police will do and what financial resources will be devoted to it. It's gonna be a huge exercise. I was wondering how you look at that scaling yourself. I think it is very good that you state in your policy statement that a scaling-up should not affect the proximity of the police and ordinary services. I totally agree with that. That's a forgery that's often cited. How do you see it? Do you agree with what the professor says? Is it an ideal image to go to 40 or 50 zones? What do you think of that? I would also like to comment on something Minister De Crem once said. Minister Jambon once commissioned a study on the willingness to consider a merger in Flanders and Wallonia. Brussels was not included at the time. Minister De Crem said in this committee that he would consider whether there could also be an investigation into the willingness to merge into Brussels and its benefits. Is that investigation ongoing? Do you have any more information about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u178	Mr Moyaers, Mrs Ingels, I have indeed indicated earlier that scaling up can increase the effectiveness of an organisation. The voluntary merging of police zones is one way of achieving this, in addition to associations and other partnerships. The initiatives are encouraged pending the results of the multidisciplinary committee to be set up, which will also address the funding of local police. It will inevitably also address the issue of optimal scale. The Road Safety Fund and other federal prevention funds should also be charged. The hearings on the subject in Parliament will contribute to the analysis of both issues. With regard to the article that has been published, I have found that Professor Janssen has spoken to a great many people, but not to the Minister of the Interior himself. The fact that he is doing an analysis is, in my opinion, not very conducive to the debate and lacks the nuance given in the messages. However, it is never too late to start a debate. Mr Moyaers, of course we will also have to debate for the States-General. The intention is to start preparing this debate from April, and then to look at it later in 2021 when we can have that debate properly, in person rather than behind the scenes. The aim is to analyse the position of the police today and the direction we intend to take with the police. We want to involve all stakeholders so that we can have a nuanced and open debate on all the major issues in the policy statement that will be essential for the future of the police. Just a moment ago, we discussed all the elements about cyber. This will have an impact not only on the internal functioning but also on the tasks of the police. We see this as a very important exercise, especially on the occasion of the birthday. As far as federal donations to local police areas are concerned, there has been no annual linear savings so far. The federal basic funding, the additional federal funding and the social allowance 1, which together constitute the majority of federal funding, were indexed annually. In 2015, however, a one-off reduction of 2% was made on the two federal donations, in particular the federal basic donation and the additional federal donation. The savings were limited to those two amounts. They were also limited to 2015. As of 2016, the federal donations were re-indexed as before. My predecessors, too, have since 2004 introduced several additional donations and have taken measures to anticipate the needs and new realities of the police zones so that all police areas can achieve equivalent basic police care, taking into account their local specificity. For example, since 2010, the funding to promote recruitment policies has been allocated to police areas. Since 2012, Salduz has also been awarded the federal dotation Salduz. This has also been the case since 2019 for the funding under the Sectoral Agreement. In addition, since 2016, there has been the NAVAP grant to the local police, about which the latter has not yet been mentioned in this committee. Mrs Ingels, I have indeed said that the focus is on a highly decentralised police force that can be close to the citizen. I believe that this can help to improve safety, but also to increase security. The role of the district inspector is crucial. It is also the aim to upgrade that function and not to make a fin the career or a function for people who have lost potential other interests. To this end, it will also be important to assess citizens' current satisfaction with regard to this proximity. What do we expect from this district inspector? Among other things, the States-General will be able to help. These results can then be further translated into actions, in close consultation with local police. The concrete impact of this questioning on the citizen is ongoing. It is too early today to comment on definitions and measurements. That, of course, remains on the agenda. As regards the number of district agents, the Royal Decree of 17 September 2001 laying down the organisation and functioning standards of the local police determines one district agent per 4,000 inhabitants for the performance of the neighbourhood function. That's a minimum standard. The police college or the police council will eventually decide on the number that may be present within the police zone. The observation is that there are often more than foreseen. Due to the structure of the police at two levels, the information requested is not available at the central level of my department. However, I assume that we will be able to look at this further in the exercises we are going to do. Finally, I am in favour of the principle of voluntaryity. I note, of course, that economic conditions have an important impact on the financial capacity of the administrative authorities, which face the challenge of maintaining quality basic police care. In the search for the most efficient management and organizational structures one often finds that profit can be made by involving volunteers. I also spoke in the policy statement about focusing on this participation and increasing it, without delegation of police duties. The results of the multidisciplinary committee will provide an important added value in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u179	Madam Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive answer. That state-general is a very interesting fact. You say that all the essential partners can join us, and I hope you will also provide a small place for the members of the Committee on the Interior, because I am certainly very interested. I have heard you say that an increase in scale does not mean that the district agent cannot be close to the citizens. As mayor of a small rural municipality, I see how much my district agents are involved in their neighborhood. So it is certainly not a matter of fin the career, certainly not in my congregation. The love of the profession can be even greater with the district agent than with people on the intervention teams. Betting on the district cop is therefore a very good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u180	Madam Secretary, I agree with my colleague. I really mean this. This is such a huge exercise. I would like you to consider how we can play a role in this. We all know very well that this is a very large and important exercise. It would be good if we were involved in some way. There are, of course, local political interests, but our committee can also make its voice heard and help. I would therefore ask you to consider how we can be involved in this. Perhaps we should also look at all the other ongoing initiatives. I am thinking, for example, of regional development. Can it somehow play a part in the redrawing of the landscape? Should we also consider whether we can make them coincide with the areas of aid? Those are questions that need to be addressed. Madam Minister, you did not answer the question about the Brussels study. May I conclude that it is not yet there and that you simply take it with you in the larger exercise? [[Assent]] Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u181	Mr. President, we always say we keep the best for the end. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the services and interpreters – especially as, at this time, it is an ordeal to continue to translate – who are helping us and I also thank the minister for her long presence this afternoon. Very quickly, the French-speaking press took over from a survey carried out by the University of Liège which mentioned that in one in three couples there had been marital violence during confinement. Two particular characteristics have been highlighted: the younger the couple – that is, the more recent the relationship – the greater the risk of violence. The second factor is housing: the smaller the housing, the higher the risk of violence. This confirms what we knew: the periods of confinement we are living in are particularly conducive to violence. We've already had the opportunity to question you. With regard to this worrying new statistic, I have asked you, along with the Minister of Justice and Secretary of State Sarah Schlitz, about the measures announced. I would like to know what is the status of all this very important work of accompaniment, of follow-up of victims, of the possibility of re-telephoning the persons who have been the subject of a complaint via the police services. I would have liked to know where this work was at in the Interministerial Conference and the various aspects that you have announced. I think that after a year – as we were already sounding the alarm bell at the end of March with the ministers at the time – we must take strong steps. Your predecessors have procrastinated, I know that you have a will on the subject with your colleagues, but the will is not enough, we need action. Where are we?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u182	Mrs Matz, as I have already mentioned, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men is responsible for coordinating this new national action plan. Therefore, it is up to the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities and Diversity to answer this question. As you know, the Institute monitors and coordinates the measures and practices implemented by our country during this period of covid-19. In addition, a scoreboard is being updated to monitor the progress of the various initiatives in this regard. As far as the agenda of the Interministerial Conference is concerned, I also refer you to the Secretary of State. As far as the police services are concerned, they are obviously supposed to follow the guidelines formulated and approved at the highest level of the GPI, in accordance with the guidelines of the College of Attorneys General and Local Prosecutors. Apart from these guidelines, other initiatives have been taken as a matter of priority to continue to combat domestic violence during the Corona period. I am thinking of the general website of the online police, which offers victims the opportunity to lodge complaints against certain crimes, including domestic violence. The emergency centres pay particular attention to such high-risk situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u183	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, I knew you didn't have the most important portfolio in the fight against domestic violence. Nevertheless, you exercise jurisdiction over the police services. Complaints must also be brought to the attention of victims. As you know, this is one of the big problems, since they often give up filing complaints, thinking that their files will not be followed by effect and that it is of no use because they will not be raw. It is therefore on these aspects that we must work on. I still do not know if our police services are contacting again after three months, as was called for in a resolution voted here, the victims who filed a complaint to take their news, as well as the perpetrators in order to maintain some pressure on them. This measure can be easily implemented in the police, particularly in victim services. I hope that you will follow these crucial questions carefully, as will your colleagues whom I will probably have the opportunity to question after the carnival leave. In any case, I thank you for your answer and for your long and very patient presence this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic377x.u184	We have come to the end of our work. I would like to thank you very much for your long presence today, Madam Secretary. We have finished all the questions, so no one will complain about the working rhythm in this committee.
