ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u1	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns the resolution on colonial metres, which was unanimously adopted during the previous reign and which was highlighted in particular on the day of the adoption by Prime Minister Michel at the time. This resolution combats the many years of discrimination against metises in our society and formally apologizes. In addition, 11 remedial measures were proposed, including the government agreement, which provides for work to be carried out. During the current period, it was impossible to submit certain drafts or proposals in this area. At present, there is a measure which falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice, namely the delivery of birth certificates. Although most metises are of Belgian nationality, they require a birth certificate for certain formalities, for which a cumbersome procedure must be followed. In this sense, these people are still treated separately, although many of them have been kidnapped and do not even know their mother. It would be a good idea to put an end to the separate treatment of this hundred remaining metises. What is the state of affairs regarding the delivery of birth certificates? What problems are there at the moment? What measures have already been taken, together with the Minister of the Interior, to put into practice the delivery of birth certificates?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u2	Madam President, Minister, between 14,000 and 20,000 Métis children are said to have been born under the Belgian colonial regime in Congo and in Ruanda-Urundi. They were almost systematically taken away from their parents and entrusted to Belgian religious in orphanages and residential schools. As has just been recalled, on April 4, 2019, in plenary session, the Prime Minister presented Belgium's official apology to the Métis from colonization and their families for "the injustices and suffering they have suffered." It responded to one of the recommendations of the resolution, among others, by my predecessor, Stéphane Crusnière, and adopted by the House in March 2018. Recently, I asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the requests in this document. However, it appears that some points deserve clarification, especially since the government agreement provides for the implementation of the text. Therefore, Mr Minister, in view of your competence, I would like to ask you the following questions. What measures were being taken to address the problem of birth certificates, which, because of the wanderings of the colonial administration at the time, were sometimes absent or distorted, which still had consequences for the lives of the individuals concerned? Have any contacts with your colleague, the Minister of the Interior, already been made in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for these questions. It is, of course, up to the judiciary to implement the 2018 resolution. It's obvious. I have received a reply from the Administration which, as the legislation currently stands, is correct. I'll come back. Mrs Van Hoof claims that the issue of birth certificates to the colonial metises is practically feasible on the basis of the available data in the National Register database. Unfortunately, this is not legally possible under the current legislation. The law does not permit the creation of civil status records on the basis of information from the National Register. This would be contrary to the general principles of civil status and would allow any person staying in Belgium to have acts drawn up on the basis of data from the National Register, the accuracy of which is sometimes uncertain. This would therefore constitute an undesirable and dangerous precedent. In addition, the civil status official shall be liable under civil and criminal law if the rules of the Civil Code relating to the keeping of records and the preparation of civil status documents are not complied with. The registrar shall draw up a birth certificate within 15 days of the birth, on the basis of the notification of the birth by the hospital and the declaration of the parent. This information is then entered in the National Register. In addition, a Belgian document may be drawn up on the basis of a foreign birth certificate under certain conditions. The national register and the civil status documents do not therefore have the same finality. The finality of a birth certificate is the legal determination of birth and descent. The finality of the National Register is the identification of persons. This identification is not always made on the basis of civil status documents. The information contained in the National Register may also be based on a declaration or on documents which do not have the same legal force as instruments establishing birth and descent. The National Register also does not always contain information on the descent, which is essential to the birth certificate. Information from the National Register, if supported by documents, is used for the identification of documents. So, lasted lex sed lex. When I read my answer, I remembered my term of office as Secretary of State for Administrative Simplification, more than 15 years ago. Even then, I wondered what the distinction was between an act of civil status and the National Register. At that time, the civil status records existed only in a paper version and the National Register was already digitized. In the meantime, civil status records have also been digitised, in particular since 1 April 2020. Dura lex sed lex, therefore, unless Parliament came to the conclusion that this legal provision on the different legal value of the civil status record and the national register would be obsolete. The explanation given seems somewhat out of date, at first sight, in this digital age. That is why I intend to examine, together with the services of the Home Office responsible for the National Register, a legislative amendment to that effect. If we finally come to the conclusion that an amendment of the law is not feasible, we need, firstly, to have a look at which documents are already in existence and available. On that basis, documents of civil status could then be drawn up. For this reason, the National Archives were asked to carry out a study of the civil status documents drawn up by the colonial authorities. For the same reason, the FPS Justice has addressed the question of creating a unique point of contact where the persons concerned can file a file. On the basis of the information obtained, it is possible to assess the legislative initiatives and concrete measures to be taken. In the meantime, only 11 cases were introduced, the majority of which did not meet the definition of the target group and did not meet the requirements of the resolution. Almost none of the documents concerned civil status. The metises are, of course, entitled to a special arrangement and a solution by the Belgian authorities to the problem relating to their documents. The solution lies therefore in the drawing up of documents on the civil status of the colonial authorities. The study of the National Archives is of prime importance in this respect and will make it possible to identify and release documents. In order to be able to draw up acts within the current legislative framework, it is necessary to be able to submit civil status documents from the relevant period. A legislative initiative will in any case be necessary. I've already revealed to which slopes I prefer. If this proves impossible, a specific legal possibility should be provided for in order to draw up birth certificates which also determine which documents may serve as the basis for those documents. In addition, a special procedure will be established for the recognition of the actions of the colonial government for persons belonging to the target group defined in the resolution. The procedure could be completed by the recognition of the instrument and the preparation of the birth certificate by the civil status official. This procedure will be limited to a certain period. The urgency lies therefore in the identification of the necessary documents on the basis of the study of the National Archives. The objectification of these documents will be central to this. My cabinet met with the guidance committee, at the request of the Foreign Minister's cabinet, which is in charge of this dossier. I have asked the Foreign Minister's office to ask the Secretary of State for Science Policy to report the initial research results. The archives are numerous, and I therefore felt it desirable to work in wave movements, and not to wait until the end of the investigation. In this way, my services can start by analysing and defining the colonial documents that we can then consider valid for the delivery of birth certificates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u4	Minister, I am pleased that you and your cabinet are considering the matter. This was not the case in the past year, because of the period of current cases. I will take a technical look at your answer to see what possibilities exist, but the study does indeed examine the origin of the document, which can serve as a basis for the delivery of the birth certificate. You say that there are different options in the area of legislative changes. The resolution made it very clear that what is legally possible must be examined. If there is no possibility, the necessary measures should be taken to resolve the remaining problems related to the birth certificates and marriage certificates of those persons. I believe that you are working fully in the spirit of this resolution and hope that a solution will still be found during the current period of government. After all, the people who are talking about are already getting older for a day. Unfortunately, some birth certificates will prove necessary for future inheritances. It would be good if the family did not have to face problems in this respect. That is why I would ask that we proceed with some urgency as soon as the study is completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for these complete answers. There's obviously no solution to everything yet, and it's understandable, but at least things are moving and moving forward. I can only encourage you to continue these efforts, to intensify them as much as possible. Indeed, time is running out. We are facing the management of a material with a strong human impact on real people. We're not in abstractions. As Mr Van Hoof pointed out, it is important to be able to respond as quickly as possible to the questions that arise, so as to prevent drama from being added to other tragedies that have occurred in the past. In any case, we will be very attentive to the proper follow-up to this dossier and to the implementation of the resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u6	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Van Hecke's 55012010 and 5501201 are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u7	Mr Minister, I have to ask you about the statements made by the Flemish Minister of Justice, Zuhal Demir, who, this weekend, reaffirmed her willingness to set up a Flemish justice agency, "in order to prepare for Flanders having more powers after 2024", in which her statements are problematic. In October 2019, I already expressed my concern to Minister Geens about the beginning of an increased regionalisation of justice following the creation of the Flemish Minister of Justice since in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, the Minister is in charge not of the 'Justice' but of the 'Houses of Justice and Youth Protection'. While the objective is to improve the functioning of justice in the Region, the initiative is commendable and legitimate, it remains that the powers of a regional justice agency must be strictly limited in order not to encroach on federal jurisdiction in this area. Minister, have you been involved or, at the very least, consulted in setting up such a regional justice agency? What are the specific missions? Do you consider the creation of such an agency to be an increased regionalization of justice in our country? If not, what guarantees are there to ensure that the competences of the Flemish Justice Agency do not encroach on federal jurisdiction in this area? How often does the Interministerial Conference on Sentences and Measures meet, which is responsible for drawing up common positions in this area between the Ministers of the federated entities and yourself, under the auspices of the SPF Justice. I would like to ask you the question because I had already asked Minister Geens about this in October 2019 and he announced that "an interdepartmental conference with the new ministers of the federated entities could take place as soon as possible", without any further clarification. What about today, more than a year later?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u8	Mr President, like my colleague, Mrs Rohonyi, the Flemish Minister for Justice, Zuhal Demir, has announced her decision to set up a Flemish justice agency. The stated objective is clear: to prepare Flanders for the regionalisation of justice in 2024. To date, several jurisdictions related to justice have been regionalized, such as victim assistance, electronic bracelet, youth protection, employment sanctions. In order to achieve this objective, she announced the commitment of 128 new officials to the Flemish Justice Agency, which she said should have a thousand employees. Minister, as Minister of Justice, have you been informed of the approach taken by the Flemish Government and Minister Demir in particular? If so, has there been any consultation between the federal government and the Flemish government? In this context, what is your position with regard to this approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u9	Madam President, my colleague, there is regular consultation between the Flemish justice services and the federal government, as well as between Minister Demir's office and mine. This should, of course, be the case in matters that fall under both federal and federal jurisdiction. Just think about the execution of sentences (legal houses, electronic bracelets), the prevention of radicalization, the LIVC, the CSIL (local comprehensive security cells), or the integrated approach to domestic violence via the Family Justice Centers and sexual violence via the care centres. This federalism of cooperation is, or should be, at the heart of our state system, and therefore in the field of justice, especially after the sixth reform of the state; just as I do and want to do with my colleagues from the other regions. Therefore, I can only confirm that there is consultation and cooperation in these important areas. It's not about getting in the way; it doesn't help anyone. It's about getting together. This can be done through the official and appropriate channels of the ICD, but this can and should be done through formal and informal contacts. As Minister of Justice, I do not have to judge Ms. Demir's statement. Moreover, in this same capacity, I have neither the desire nor the time to engage in discussions on the question of regionalisation or not of justice. The discussion on possible further regionalisation or not is explicitly reserved by this government for ministers of institutional reform, namely colleagues Clarinval and Verlinden. With regard to the ICD issue, which deals with sentences and measures, I think you have mentioned here the ICD Justice Houses. The latter has already met twice since October 2019. A meeting was held on 14 July 2020. It took place in the presence of the competent ministers within the various departments concerned. Another was held on 30 October 2020 as part of a working meeting with members of the strategic cells and representatives of the administrations concerned. More generally, this ICD has met 14 times since March 2016. But, as I have already pointed out in a previous question, I intend to bring it together more regularly during this Parliament in order to improve consultation and cooperation in the wide range of areas within its competence. With regard to this ICD, you are referring to the execution of sentences and measures, but this ICD also deals with many other matters such as, for example, the reception of victims or assistance to detainees, all of which I intend to make real improvements in the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear you don't have a judgment to make with respect to Minister Demir's statements. You finally send the ball back to the minister in charge of institutional reforms. The problem is that your party is a member of the federal government but is also a member of the Flemish regional government, which is supposed to support the statements made. So you are a little in a position that I think deserves to be clarified, especially since some of the parties with which you are a member of the regional government are advocating for greater regionalisation of justice with justice organised only at regional level as in other federal states. For the rest, yes, already today, the Regions are competent for certain matters relating to justice (assistance to victims, assistance to prisoners, electronic bracelets, prevention of radicalisation, Family Justice Centers). Indeed, the sixth reform of the State is to be carried out. If this is done, as you say, within the framework of a federalism of cooperation with permanent consultation, in particular through interdepartmental conferences, it is very good, but I am still concerned because Minister Demir has said, - in any case, it has been understood through her remarks - that it is not only a matter of making her policy on these matters more effective but of preparing herself for new competences in the field of justice. As you said, it is still the federal government that is preparing institutional reforms, not the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u11	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. I note that you made it very clear that you had neither the desire nor the time to talk about this subject at the moment. As we have had the opportunity to discuss it together as part of the presentation of your policy in this Parliament, I am well aware that you have a lot of work to do and a lot more to do. I therefore fully understand the expression that you used "no envy, no time". It is quite logical to postpone this kind of debate. There will of course be others since, as the parties of La Vivaldi have said, there will be no taboo. So we can talk about a whole series of issues in order to make the state more effective, but that will happen in due course. If this debate comes to the table of the Committee on Institutional Reforms, I will of course make it very clear that the players in the justice sector are involved in the process, in the reflection, so as not to find themselves, once again, after the fact, in the face of inconsistencies and decisions that would not be understood by the sector, on the one hand, and, above all, by the citizens, on the other hand. Indeed, as you have rightly said, the concern that must be ours is that of efficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u12	We now come to Mrs Dillen's interplay on the attack on a guard in Ghent's prison. Mrs Dillen, your interplay has been merged with a question from Mrs De Wit, who is still in a meeting of the Commission on Suspicions. That's gonna take at least half an hour. Would you like to wait for Mrs De Wit or would you prefer to start with your interplay?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u13	Madam President, that would not be very collegial with regard to Mr De Wit. I'll wait.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u14	Minister, I would like to question you about the problem of activation of route checks, which I questioned your colleague from the Interior last week in plenary. I did that because four years ago the agreement was made with the Regions that they would invest in cameras, while the federal government would take care of the back office in all its aspects. In the Flemish Region we will soon have 300 route checks, of which 200 cannot function because the back office is not in order. I noticed that your Home Affairs colleague referred to a meeting of the College of Attorneys General on 7 January in order to "make guidelines and agreements that will be included in the framework of agreements needed to phase out all route checks'. She also referred to arrangements to be made with the public prosecutors. I would like to ask you the following questions. What is the concrete outcome of the meeting of the College of Attorneys General on 7 January to which your colleague referred? Can you indicate in concrete terms exactly what steps your services have yet to take in order to operationalise all route checks? Can you put concrete timing on that? Do you have a view of the phased entry into service of all existing path checks? Can you give me more details on that? How can we prevent the operationalisation of still planned or under construction from taking so much time again?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. The ANPR story is indeed not a simple story. This was mentioned by my colleague Lydia Peeters, and this was confirmed in plenary last week by Mr Verlinden of the Interior. What are the challenges? There must be proper coordination between all actors. That's about the road managers, the installers, the police and the Justice Department. The story starts with the local, regional and federal government, which wants to put cameras. Then it concerns the technical installation of the equipment, by the manufacturer or the supplier. Then there is the type approval to determine the conformity of the equipment. Then the connection to the police's local or possibly federal back office system, the processing of the violations by the police processing centres, the handling of the criminal penalties platform, called Crossborder, will follow, if necessary, even the court. As you can see, all the actors come together: local, regional and federal, the police, mayors, the private sector, the public prosecutors and, ultimately, the Justice Department. That's why we have to make good agreements. Since my appointment as Minister of Justice, and building on my experience as mayor of the city of Kortrijk, I have paid particular attention to this. The long time needed to link some systems to the ANPR-Management System (AMS) national technical database has played a role, but there have been and are still challenges at both technical and legal level. What are the exact problems and challenges? I'm trying to be very clear, good colleagues. Firstly, there is a need for four directives implementing Article 44 of the Police Office Act. Those directives should further operationalise or refine the legal framework for police services. They are complementary to the legal framework of Article 44, which is the basis. The most important directive for the further rollout of route checks is the ANPR Directive. The College of Attorneys-General did indeed deliver an opinion on this last Friday. The directive will be signed by the Minister of the Interior and myself in the coming days, but the signature is not a condition for the use of route control systems. The legal basis is and will remain Article 44. There is also a 'linking' directive, a 'IT security' directive and a 'access databases' directive. They will further clarify the commitment of ANPR to the tasks of administrative and judicial police. Finally, the amendment of Article 62 (6) of the Road Police Act is also necessary. The College of Attorney General has drawn attention to this. It is a technical adjustment to allow traffic cameras to be used for judicial purposes. The law on police officers already allows this, but the law on police on road traffic needs to be amended accordingly. Secondly, there are also challenges in terms of resources. As police processing is still either manual or partly manual at the moment, additional staff are needed to be able to process traffic offences effectively on the basis of these new route checks. The same goes for Crossborder at Justice. Both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the seat will need additional resources to cope with the new influx of files in the short term. More enforcement means a greater chance of catching up and thus more influx. To this end, resources must be made available and good protocols concluded between the road manager, the police and the judiciary so that everyone can keep pace and strengthen each other. Thirdly, there is also a legislative need to amend the law on police office in order to be able to send the pseudonymized data from the national technical database to the Regions and the municipalities for mobility purposes, for example for mapping traffic flows. There is an explicit demand from the VVSG, but also from the Regions to be able to do so. The approximation of the law on the police officer should be done through the Internal Affairs Commission. Its technical implementation should also be further investigated. Finally, there is also the question of payment of connection to the national technical database for the local ANPR. The Police Office Act provides for mandatory transmission of ANPR data to the national database. In addition, it is necessary to clarify who will pay for the connection to the national database. The costs vary according to whether existing systems are to be connected to the AMS or to build new systems. I know that the Home Secretary is also working on this. How do I intend to resolve these problems in the foreseeable future? In what way? At my level, my cabinet and I have been in very extensive contact with the Interior and also with Minister Peeters. A consultation with Walloon Minister De Bue is also scheduled to take place shortly. The aim is to make clear agreements to ensure that the ongoing and existing route checks are not gradually activated at once and that agreements are also made on future new route checks. At Justice, I've identified a person for the subject matter. In consultation with the Minister of the Interior, the federal police were also asked to have a point of contact for that file. These people need to identify the different steps of activation and to coordinate with all actors in their own organisations and also with the other administrations. I do not want to pin myself on a date, but I can assure you that is my belief that priority should be given to this. You have noticed this during the negotiations, Mr Vandenbroucke. For each location we need to find out what steps we need to take. It is tailor-made and especially teamwork in the interests of road safety. It is clear to me, ladies and gentlemen, that if we want to increase road safety by increasing the chances of catching up, then we need to scale it up. In order to do so, we need to further digitize and limit human interventions to a maximum. That's crucial. If we depend on people, then we must continue to work with quotas, and that is the tragedy of our country. We cannot guarantee road safety because there are quotas. Those quotas have been in place for a long time, because police and prosecutors say they can't handle the flux. Then what's the answer? Some people want to get more people involved. I think that we should focus on the work processes and focus on digitalisation. In France, for example, there is no human intervention in the route checks. In our country there are the processing centres, where there are many people to process these things. Can't we completely digitize that? Not from A to X, but from A to Z, so that everything goes digital and no more quotas have to be applied. Today, the police have to restrain themselves, otherwise they will not be able to deal with the findings. Efficiency gains can therefore be made. I will discuss this with my colleagues in the Interior and Mobility. For the collection platform Traffic Fines I will also continue to focus on digitisation of the work processes. Of course, we can't digitize everything. If there's a serious traffic violation, that case will end up in court, and obviously I'm not going to replace the judge with artificial intelligence. We're not gonna do that. That's a step too far. We can digitize the steps that preceded it. The technology exists and we still need to integrate it into our collection processes. Finally, in order to deal with the influx of the parquets, I would also like to organise scales. Once again, I will look at what proposals we can make.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u16	Minister, I hear that you rightly have the greatest plans, together with your colleague, to make things smooth. It's okay. It's okay. It's about stories people fall back on. It is not a good thing for politics when people read such news in the newspaper. I wish you every success and perseverance, because it is not an obvious matter. Otherwise, you would not have to give such a detailed explanation of directives to be drawn up here and there. I understand there's still a lot of work to be done. If you have a good match with the different actors, you are going to activate things step by step. I also understand that: you cannot solve things tomorrow by pressing a button, after which everything will be picco bello. We need to give you time to sort things out. You are so wise not to put forward a date, and I understand that the roll-out must be done in a proper way, but it can go forward. If all these directives are to come into being, we must be able to roll things out gradually by teamwork, after good agreements. I should not blame you, but Mrs Verlinden's spokeswoman said last week that these directives are actually a problem for the judiciary. It is about the judicial processing of personal data. I will tell her later, because I also put a question to her. If teamwork's important, she'd show it for the best. I also wish you every success in your great ambition to digitize everything. I sincerely hope that it will succeed, but that is a heavy commitment. Look at the roll-out of Mercury in the previous legislature. There are still a number of issues to be dealt with in order to digitize everything. At least it is the future, and I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Knowing that this project has been going on for four years, I do think that there are still impressive steps to be taken. Thank you for your openness. You have explained this in detail. You won't be pinned down on a date. I understand. I wouldn't do that in your place if this were to end up on my plate. However, you also immediately look ahead so we know you and advocate a complete digitization of those processes. I fully agree with that, Minister, but please ensure that the system as it exists today operates as quickly as possible, if necessary with quotas. After all, it is almost literally a shame that 95 route checks in the Flemish Region are technically ready-to-use, but cannot be used for what they were purchased: to ensure that people do not drive too fast. This will allow us to kill and avoid wounded. I feel that this is a priority for you. I am counting on you to take these steps forward and that we will not be able to conclude in the foreseeable future that all these trajectories will work in years to come. You have my full support and then take the steps towards total digitisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u18	Mr. Secretary, in Ghent's prison, a prison guard suffered serious injuries following a violent incident on Tuesday morning. In the meantime, the facts were also confirmed by the spokesman for the prison system. In the meantime, how's the attacked guard? Could you give me some more information about the incident? Since the incident, have additional measures been in force in prison or are additional security measures planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u19	Minister, as Mrs De Wit said, last week a prisoner beat up a prison guard, causing the guard to be seriously injured. In the initial coverage of this incident it was said that this detained psychological assistance would be needed. A day later we got more clarity about the perpetrator: it concerns the Antwerp terrorist Hassan Hamdaoui, better known in Antwerp as 'the terror of Saint-Jans Square'. Mr Hamdaoui was already convicted of planning attacks against NATO, against the Jewish community, at train stations and at football stadiums. Fortunately, this leader of a terrorist gang was apprehended in time. As we could read, he stabbed the female guard out of anger because he feared to lose his Belgian nationality." Moreover, a number of testimonies from other guards show that this is an unmanageable, unpleasant and highly unbalanced person who has received one disciplinary sentence after another in recent years. As far as I am concerned, it is completely incomprehensible that this man was given the opportunity to work in prison. First, because he found at the place of employment the object with which he seriously injured the guard. Working in prison is also a favor, and given the limited number of places, this has to be handled more selectively. I refer to the figures we received last week from the Central Supervisory Board of the Prisoners. This shows that only 35% of prisoners are given that opportunity. The guard has since been allowed to leave the hospital. I hope she's okay. Can you explain her state of health a little bit? How is this lady supported? Could you also explain to me this violent incident a little further? Have measures been taken to prevent such events? According to the media, the inmate would need psychological help to deal with past traumas. We now know what this so-called need for psychological aid is. Can a little more explanation be given about this? Had any steps been taken to deprive this man of his Belgian nationality? This dangerous terrorist was allowed to work in prison. I am asking questions about this and I do not understand that such terrorists are given priority. Can you give me more clarification on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u20	Madam President, Mrs De Wit, Mrs Dillen, thank you for the question and also for the concern about what happened to an important member of our service. Fortunately, I can inform you that on the day of the facts, the victim, a nurse within the care facility of Ghent's prison, was allowed to leave the hospital and get home from her injuries. Support is provided by local management, including through contact with the reception team. It consists of people trained in peer care. There are also contacts with colleagues. We, too, have, of course, contacted the people on the ground from the cabinet. The statements made by the staff present showed that there was no reason for the violence incident. The unsub suddenly attacked the victim in the back and was neutralized by a courageous intervention of staff. The unsub was immediately arrested and interrogated by the police. The Executive Board addressed the entire staff as an emotional debriefing after the incident. The reception team was also called in to take care of the staff who were closely involved in the incident. The prisoner was transferred to Bruges prison on Wednesday 6 January 2021 and is under a new arrest order, delivered by the investigating judge. The arrest order also mentions the previous aggressive acts of 14 December 2020. Indeed, on 14 December 2020, the prisoner concerned already had aggressive behaviour towards the staff. He was sanctioned by the disciplinary procedure, which is laid down in the basic law, with nine days in prison. A complaint was also filed with the police. The incident has been recorded by DG EPI's Integral Security Executive Board, just like any incident. An initial analysis shows that no structural measures are needed, as this is an isolated incident. Because I consider the well-being and safety of my staff to be important, I asked my administration to work out a procedure so that a traumatic experience in each prison would be treated in a uniform manner. In this way, I want to provide my employees who are the victims of an incident during the performance of their work with the best possible care. I can confirm that the unsub is indeed a returned Syrian warrior, who is suffering from psychiatric problems. I've asked the OCAD to make an analysis. I can also confirm that the facts committed can be placed entirely in a psychiatric context. Of course, I can't tell you any more about the medical and psychiatric details, given the medical secret. However, I can tell you that the psychiatric problem is one of the elements that prevented the criminal court from granting electronic supervision at the time. The person concerned appeared before the Court of Appeal in Antwerp on 8 December in the context of the withdrawal of Belgian nationality on application by the Public Prosecutor's Office. However, this matter was postponed. Finally, the award of work in prison takes place under Articles 81 to 86 of the basic law on the legal status of detainees. Work shall be assigned by the Director or his delegate. The person concerned has followed the procedure provided for, like all other detainees, and has in no way been given priority. He was employed in the care workhouse, an adapted workplace for inmates with a certain profile.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, but this raises a great deal of concern. We all know that the returned Syrian fighters are ticking time bombs. Here it was proven that such a person could explode due to a banal fact. It's not the first time, and that shows that we have a problem. Perhaps it is not bad that people are busy and able to get to work, but this shows the challenges facing our prisons and institutions with those involved in our cells. In the end, I see a new plea for the legislative proposal that we tabled on the posting of the criminal execution court after the end of the sentence. After all, we cannot keep these people in prison forever today, and even in prison it is not safe for the staff. These facts do show that. An instrument is needed to allow proper follow-up. I know that you included this point in the policy paper. According to the coalition agreement, that would be investigated, and in the policy paper you have already adapted it, for which I thank you. The first hundred days are now almost over and perhaps this is a good time to see how far this is going. You do not have much work to do, because our proposal has already been tabled, it can be adopted tomorrow, so to speak. This event shows that there is indeed a need to address or guide such profiles. You can call it what you like, but there is a need to act decisively and efficiently so that such facts do not repeat themselves, not in prison or outside.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u22	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your detailed reply. I would like to join in Mr De Wit's reply. This incident indeed shows for the umpteenth time that returned Syrian fighters and convicted terrorists are causing a serious problem in our prisons. As far as the work is concerned, you referred to the implementation of the basic law on the legal status of the detainees, but we must not forget that this was a man who did not behave like a good prisoner in prison. On the contrary, it was about someone who was unmanageable and very unbalanced and has been sanctioned several times. I don't understand why someone like that gets the favor or the privilege to work. Don't get me wrong. I am in favour of giving work to prisoners in prison. This has a number of advantages. They can earn a penny and it is also very important for the reintegration into society. However, when we hear that only 35% of prisoners receive this favor, I think that priorities should be set there and prisoners who behave properly in prison should be given priority. I would like to urge that consideration be given, in consultation with all the actors, to the drawing up of a roadmap to provide for a number of clear guidelines and criteria, taking into account the limited number of places, in order to determine which prisoners are to be given priority. Two criteria are very important: the behaviour in prison and the nature of the conviction. I have therefore tabled a motion to wind up this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u23	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Marijke Dillen and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice with responsibility for the North Sea, - whereas on 5 January 2021 in the prison of Ghent a prisoner, known in popular terms as 'the fear of Saint John's Square in Antwerp', beaten a guard heavily with a pair of scissors; - considering that it was a leader of a terrorist gang convicted for planning attacks against NATO, the Jewish community and at train stations and in football stadiums; - whereas the annual report of the Central Prison Supervisory Board shows that only 35% of prisoners have access to work in prison; - having regard to the fact that the prisoner, who is moreover an unmanageable and highly unbalanced person and who has already received various disciplinary penalties, has been given the privilege to work; - whereas the nature of the conviction and behaviour of the prisoner should be taken into account when granting the privilege to work in prison; asks the government - in consultation with all relevant actors such as the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions, the Prison Labour Directorate and the Prison Central Supervisory Board, draw up a roadmap setting out clear criteria for awarding prison work to prisoners; - taking into account at least the nature of the conviction and behaviour of the prisoner in prison." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu l'interpellation de Mme Marijke Dillen and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice, responsible for the North Sea, - Considering that a prisoner generally known as the terror of Sint-Jansplein in Antwerp violently mistreated a guard with scissors on 5 January 2021 in Ghent prison; - Considering that he was the leader of a terrorist group convicted of planning attacks against NATO and the Jewish community and at stations and football stadiums; - Considering that the annual report of the Central Prison Supervision Board reveals that only 35 per cent of prisoners have access to work in prisons; - Considering that the detainee who, moreover, appears to be a recalcitrant and very unbalanced person who has already suffered several disciplinary sanctions, has been granted the privilege of being able to work; Whereas when granting the privilege of being able to work in prison, account must be taken of the nature of the convict's conviction and of the prisoner's behaviour; asks the government - to draw up, in consultation with all relevant actors, such as the Directorate-General of Penitentiary Institutions, the Prison Labour Board and the Central Prison Supervisory Board, a road map establishing clear criteria for the granting of prison work to prisoners; - in this context, at least to take into account the nature of the conviction and the behaviour of the prisoner in the prison." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u24	Madam President, Minister, we are here. After twelve years of proceedings, the criminal transaction requested by Stéphane Moreau in the Tecteo/Ogeo file was approved by the Chamber of the Liège Council. It is a beautiful Christmas present for the interested person in this case where, together with seven other people, the strong man of the Liege PS was prosecuted for abuse of social property. Of the eight accused, whose prosecution initially requested their return to prison, none will be brought before the court. Two were dismissed, the other six involved a criminal transaction. The amount of this transaction is not known. Prosecutor Christian de Valkeneer, asked by the press, will not comment. As the file has never passed the stage of investigation, the details will remain secret. I would like to express my indignation to you, Mr. Minister. Indignation not only because once again these financial crimes committed at the expense of the public good will remain unpunished, but also because they will remain forever in the shadow, because the citizen will never know the end of it. Today, in Belgium, white-collar criminals can divert money from the taxpayer without ever having to be held accountable. In the case of Stéphane Moreau, this is already the second time that he has benefited from such a transaction. The second time he gets away with it without pain and without public trial. That's not acceptable. Minister, every time I ask you about the expanded criminal transaction, you tell me that it will be evaluated and reformed if necessary. I regret not to see you make a clearer commitment in this regard. Meanwhile, criminal transactions follow suit for white-collar criminals. Each time, they cause the same indignation among the population. For us, things are clear: this system must be abolished. Minister, can you give us a clear position on the expanded criminal transaction? Do you not think that there is an urgent need to look at this system, given the current situation? What do you think of the fact that recidivists recognized as Stéphane Moreau can still and still benefit from new transactions? Can you inform us about the amount of the transaction in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time you have asked this question. I therefore think that you have already received the answer to the latter. But I'm still going to answer you. With regard to this type of case, I would like to remind you that the government agreement provides that the judicial order and the judicial police will be strengthened with a view to the detection and prosecution of financial offences. The Criminal Transaction Act will be evaluated and adjusted, if necessary. With respect to the individual case to which you refer, you know that the Minister of Justice cannot rule on a particular case. We live in a democracy. We must therefore respect the judgments and judgments of the judges.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answer, if you can call it an answer. I will continue to ask questions about the criminal transaction because your answer is, in fact, a non-response. You say the law will be evaluated and adjusted, if necessary. But you're not saying anything about this evaluation. Is she in progress? What are the modalities? You also say that you do not want to rule on a judgment. But as far as I'm concerned, I would have liked a judgment to be handed down by a court, which I would not have contested. In the present case, Mr. Moreau is the subject of a criminal transaction that prevents a fair trial, in which he could have defended himself and held himself accountable. For my part, I would have liked justice to take place normally, without financial loopholes for white-collar criminals. Stéphane Moreau's case is quite symptomatic of the criminal transaction because he is a repeat offender. It's the second time he's ever done this kind of thing. This is not an arrangement where he can learn lessons. This criminal transaction is not dissuasive. Normally, a sentence is intended to deter the criminal from resuming, while the criminal transaction encourages white-collar criminals because it is enough for them to settle by paying a small sum to be acquitted. Besides, there isn't even a trial. A justice problem arises because it does not work in the event of a criminal transaction. And I would like to get answers a little clearer than the one you're giving when you're talking about evaluation. As long as I don't get those answers, minister, I will continue to question you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u27	Minister, this question dates back to early January. In the newspapers we read several things about partner violence. The question is, what are we going to do with that? There is an urgent need to respond. We heard the lockdown's gonna take longer. How are you going to do that, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u28	Minister, "Living your life as you please. In the end, you're going to die one day", that's what Ahlam Younan, a 28-year-old Liégeoise, posted on Twitter in August 2019. This sentence resonates bitterly today. On Sunday, January 3, the lifeless body of Ahlam was discovered in his apartment. She had been abandoned there, with her hands tied in the back, executed with a bullet in her head. According to the prosecutor's preferred track, Ahlam was murdered because she refused the way of life that her family wanted to impose on her. Ahlam was a free and independent woman. She wanted to lead her own way. Men have always dared to claim to dictate their rules to women, prohibiting certain behaviours, activities, ways of dressing – until they were forbidden to dispose of their own bodies. And if these women rebel, emancipate, they obstruct, call, punish. Ahlam, she paid him with her life. If we consult the press, what does the prosecutor's office say? "The trail of honour crime is privileged", "a settlement of accounts in the family sphere". A crime of honour? A settlement of accounts? We think we're seeing a sad joke. The women's movement has been campaigning for years to stop this banality. No, killing a family member is not a crime of honour. And what accounts were to be settled? What did Ahlam do that deserved such a reward? These euphemisms are unbearable. When do we finally call a cat a cat? It's an execution! Ahlam was shot by cowards who shame all men. They didn't bear that she was out of their control, so they executed her, murdered her. She was killed because she was free. Minister, are you going to give direction to the prosecution and the courts to stop the banality of femicides? It seems that Ahlam had already been threatened by one of his brothers. Can you tell us if a complaint was filed? What was the follow-up? Finally, what policy do you intend to put in place with regard to violence against women?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the government is making the fight against partner violence and feminicide a priority, as announced in the coalition agreement, in my policy statement and policy paper. It is also a priority of the parquets. In order to prevent them, many measures have been planned by all the authorities involved in the problem, in particular in various action plans, whether at federal level or at the level of the federated entities. Justice is only a link in the chain. Many circulars are also applicable. A recent law now requires judges to follow up on specific training in this field. The Istanbul Convention is the guiding principle for this. For several years there have been guidelines specifically for the police and the judiciary on how to deal with cases of partner violence, such as the interesting COL 6/2017 on honor-related violence and COL 4/2006, which was revised in 2015. In both circulars, clear guidelines are given to police and prosecutors for dealing with these matters. A zero tolerance is also proposed. Every case must have a criminal response. Rejections for opportunity reasons should be avoided. A report must always be made and sent to the King's Attorney General. Even if the conduct declared or established does not appear to be a crime, a report containing code 42, family dispute will be made with a view to enabling magistrates, in the event of new facts, to assess the seriousness of the situation and to determine the most appropriate measures. In addition, police and judicial actors have additional tools, such as the temporary house ban and a risk assessment tool. Mrs Bury, you asked why there was no timely intervention when the police knew of previous incidents. In addition to this clear directive on the preparation of a report, other new directives were issued on the generalisation of police re-visits in situations of partner violence during the corona crisis. This means that the police department, which made the initial report, re-contacts the victim, also with regard to the safety of the victim. It takes the form of an additional interview and provides the victim with the necessary information on the availability of any assistance. This was the anchoring of a good practice that was already applied by the police outside the corona crisis and currently has a generalised use. There is also a new risk assessment tool, for which the guidelines for its use entered into force on 1 January 2021. A temporary house ban is indeed imposed mainly in the parquets of Limburg and Antwerp. As asked in recent written questions. 31 and 42, this could be due to the fact that some public prosecutors simply preferred a different approach or that it was not clear to some police forces that a temporary house ban is also possible in situations of family dispute where a report is made, even if no crime appears to have been committed. A temporary home ban is a crisis measure that should be imposed immediately, but if the facts are taken into account earlier, it is too late to consider the possibility of a temporary home ban. On the other hand, even if criminal offences are detected, the referral to the investigating judge is often taken back for a pre-trial detention. We will continue to raise the awareness of the police and the public prosecutor about the various directives contained in the letter on the temporary ban, which was revised in 2020. For example, more attention should be paid to the possibility of a temporary ban, even if there is no crime. The great success of a temporary ban on housekeeping in Limburg and Antwerp can then be linked to the existence of a Family Justice Center there on the spot and the fact that it has been possible to rely on a chain-oriented approach to intra-family violence for years. The instrument of a temporary home ban is well known by the various actors in the chain and is therefore applied with great success. I come to your fourth question. The COL 4/2006, as revised in 2015, proposes cooperation protocols at a district level on addressing situations of partner violence. In the various arrondissements there are also arrondissemental councils for victim policy and arrondissemental councils for child abuse. In addition, the practice of the chain-oriented approach has been established in Flanders for years, following projects in the arrondissement of Antwerp, namely the Protocol of Courage and the CO3 consultation, and the arrondissement of Limburg, with the LINK project. In other words, there are several agreements, protocols and platforms in which police and judicial actors and aid services regularly interact and exchange the necessary information in this area. I think I answered Mrs Bury's question. Let me turn to Mr Boukili's questions. Mr Boukili, as far as your questions about the death of young Ahlam are concerned, you will understand that it is not up to me to give my opinion or to give information in particular cases, in addition when they are under investigation. Indeed, the instruction is secret. On your third question, the government makes the fight against gender violence a priority. The Istanbul Convention serves as a guideline in this regard. In addition, the Council of Europe Expert Group on Action against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence published its evaluation report on Belgium in September 2020 and made a series of recommendations that Belgium will ensure are integrated into the implementation of future initiatives and the development of future instruments to combat gender-based violence. It will integrate them into the Federal Plan of Action to Combat Gender-Based Violence, the Federal Plan to Combat Domestic Violence, the second wave of the Covid-19, the work on centres for the care of victims of sexual violence, and the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Women's Rights. The issues are therefore addressed from different angles but always in collaboration with all relevant actors. More particularly for Justice, several axes are developed outside of those already mentioned above. First, discussions will resume on the reform of the Criminal Code. Indeed, during the previous legislature, a commission of experts had drawn up a proposal for a new Criminal Code, but had not been able to succeed. As I pointed out in my political orientation paper, the text drawn up by the Committee of Experts will form the basis for future discussions. Sexual violence was the subject of great attention in order to develop an effective approach and the chapter on sexual crimes would be treated as a matter of priority, so that it could still be incorporated into the existing Penal Code and enter into force as soon as possible. The Temporary Ban on Residence Act was amended in 2019. As a result, at the beginning of 2020 the College of Attorneys General approved a circular adapting the previous circular and issuing a number of instructions to prosecutors on the implementation of this measure and the new provisions associated with it. The message of these changes is clear: to make greater use of the temporary residence ban to support an effective and proactive policy to combat domestic violence. Centres for the care of victims of sexual violence will be increased. They will increase from three, as at present, to six. The aim is to reach ten centres before the end of this legislature. The development of the Family Justice Centers, whose effectiveness in combating domestic violence has been demonstrated, will also be a priority. These are some of the areas of work that I intend to develop in the fight against sexual violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. First of all, I would like to believe that justice is only one link in the chain, but I find it hallucinating to say so at the beginning of your answer. It is the Justice Department that needs to develop a framework here and to the others to follow that framework. If you say that justice is one link in a larger whole, you are giving a completely wrong picture of what you are sitting on that chair for. I've heard a lot of projects, protocols, platforms and all kinds of letters, but in practice we see that sometimes the police don't know that a house ban can be imposed on people even if no crime has been identified. This also requires a whole procedure before the courts, but when someone reports that there is a danger at home, that is a preventive measure that can be implemented. Then we've seen the numbers. It is not a question of regular house bans in two provinces, but of the fact that there are none in the other provinces: zero, yet the last five years. Other measures and a different approach are then put forward. I still wonder what approach that is. I didn't get an answer to that either. You say that if a different approach is adopted, a restraining order is no longer possible. I don't think that's a good thing. I would like to know what this other approach is. You are talking about assistance, the police who set up an additional pv and see how the person concerned is doing. But if it turns out that the situation is still dangerous, even if it has not been initially chosen for the ban, then it would be awesome if this measure could not be taken immediately to protect the family or the woman. For the rest, I am again talking about the right to speed. Last week we were discussing riots in plenary, now we are talking about partner violence. The high-speed courts are on their way. There's gonna be budgets. But when are they coming? When are things really urgent? These matters are urgent and there must be budgets for them. We also see this with the corona crisis. That also required budgets, and so those budgets were given. What are we waiting for? We must not wait for the same thing at all times: the adaptation of the Criminal Code to implement everything. We see that certain things are turning square and need to be looked at urgently in order to avoid more deaths. The coordination of aid workers is also important. Look at the example of my colleague, who said that there were a lot of threats against that woman and that people knew it would come to this. The police forces in Eeklo were also very well aware that there were often problems in that house. The coordination between the various actors is therefore very important. Take good measures and re-evaluate those measures, take measures, even if they have not been taken from day one...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u31	Mrs Bury, can you conclude, because your reply is longer than your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u32	Yeah, that's true. I will conclude, but I find it more interesting to refer to my question by default.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u33	You can do that and then you will have a little more time in your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u34	Then I can look in the reply a little bit at what the Minister has said, because he has read my question. I find that more interesting, but I had written down some things and sometimes I have to puzzle a bit to get to my answer, because I don't have a standard answer ready.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will wait until the investigation is completed to rest the second question. Mr Minister, since I have been in this Parliament, unfortunately I have had to intervene on several occasions on issues of femicide and sexual violence. It feels like things don't work out. Yet your predecessor had initiated several initiatives and taken positions on these issues to move the issue forward. Unfortunately, in fact, many problems remain. However, I agree with you that justice is only one link in the chain. It's not just a matter of justice that we're dealing with the whole thing. However, the judiciary is essential for this problem to be taken into account. With the most feminine government in our history, I expect an awareness and acceleration of things so that this kind of crime doesn't happen again. However, there is still a lot of work to be done at the institutional level. When I see the prosecutor's office calling it a crime of honour, I think there's a problem. There is no honor in this crime. Named it in this way just explains this murder. This is about femicide. It would be time for this word and the concept it carries to be incorporated into our judicial vocabulary, and for us not to hide femicide behind words such as "honour crimes" or "account settlement". The person was murdered because she was a woman and wanted to live free and independent. That's why she was murdered. It is a femicide and it has nothing to do with a matter of honour.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u36	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 55012201C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u37	Minister, I would like to raise the issue of the issue of the issuance of copies of files filed without further action, which was born within the jurisdiction of the Mons Court of Appeal. Repressive files filed without further action must be issued free of charge by the Public Prosecutor's Office. Traditionally, the transplant was responsible for this work. The Presidents of the Courts considered that they could no longer make available the staff and equipment of the Registry to make such copies. As a result, some registries have refused to issue these copies. The Public Prosecutor's Office, for its part, considers that it is not equipped to respond to these requests traditionally dealt with by the registries. The controversy between the seat and the prosecutor's office has gone back to the College of Courts and the Public Prosecutor's Office, each of which has its own position. They wrote to you asking you to decide. Controversy has also affected oil and now extends to almost all jurisdictions in the country. Despite the arrests of the bar associations, the situation has not improved and poses serious problems such as the risk of prescribing civil actions, the impossibility of proving a civil fact and/or fault, or the impossibility of producing evidence of a classification without further action with a copy of the file sometimes required by the courts. Minister, what is your position on this problem and what steps do you intend to take to address it? Within what time frame do you intend to settle it, following the inquiry that has been addressed to you in this regard? Indeed, this conflict does not serve the cause of justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u38	Colleagues, I am aware of the problem. As you indicate, the discussion has been going on for some time between the transplant and the prosecutor's office. In the past, the transplants have always issued these copies. Today, they invoke the lack of a legal basis explicitly assigning this task to them, so as not to insure it. Their high workload probably prompted them to make this decision. On 22 October, I received a letter from the President of the College of Courts and Courts stating that as of 1 October, the Court of First Instance's registries would no longer issue copies. The registries of the police courts joined them. The College of Public Prosecutions then asked my office to intervene in so far as it considered the issuance of copies to be a task of the clerk. The Public Prosecutor's Office cannot collect a registry fee; it cannot do so! It does not have sufficient resources to provide this service. My office has informed all the parties concerned that, according to our information, the issue of copies is indeed a task for the clerks, but the clerks camp on their position. My office then tried to find a solution through a consultation with a broad representation of clerks. On that occasion, it was proposed to look for a solution to the high workload that I readily recognize. As a result of this dialogue, I received a letter from the President of the Conference of Presidents of the Justices of the Peace and Justices to the Police Court that they maintained their views. Meanwhile, litigants, lawyers, insurance companies cannot obtain copies to which they are entitled, under article 21 bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation. I have asked that an amendment of the law be prepared and that it be submitted promptly to Parliament in committee. The purpose of this amendment is to make it clear that the issuance of copies of criminal records is a task of the clerk. With regard to the workload associated with this obligation, I would add that, following the opportunity given to the parties to take copies of the file themselves at the time of its consultation, requests for copies have already decreased. In addition, as soon as electronic records are operational, it will be possible to obtain a digital copy, which will significantly reduce the delivery of hard copies in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u39	Mr Minister, I thank you for this answer, which leaves me somewhat puzzled, particularly with regard to the fact that you are acting as a minister and that, somewhere, your recommendations are largely sat down because you and your cabinet have failed to put an end to this problem. I hear you need to make a legislative provision. Good! Of course, this one has to arrive very quickly. But, as you yourself say, making a legislative provision that obliges, which I think is necessary, is a much more revealing fact of the lack of resources of registries that cannot carry out this task for the time being. In the envelope which has been signed and which you have announced for the budgetary debate in March, in addition to justice, it is essential that we can also grant this request because to impose something through a law without making the necessary resources available, you know as I do that it is a wish a little pious. I have heard that the burden is beginning to decrease, in particular because the parties take copies directly, but there is obviously a need for additional means. In any case, we hope that this legislative provision will come into play very quickly, because, as we have pointed out, this poses enormous operational problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u40	Madam President, Minister, the government agreement states that you want to focus on attracting specialist investigators who will map criminal money flows. That is a very good thing, and we support that intention. It is essential, also in the fight against drug trafficking in the port of Antwerp. The investigation there today is too often limited to confiscating the drugs themselves, or possibly some cash lying around, but we both know that this is just the tip of the iceberg. This will never bring the problem under control. In this way, the criminal organisations are never really fundamentally affected or rolled up. The huge flows of money that are behind it, hidden, must be restricted. The recently published book "Financial Detectives" by, among other things, investigating judge Theo Byl, indicates that there the shoe clearly wrings. Too many opportunities are missed, and that's too bad. Attracting experts for financial and cyber detectives is an investment that will eventually pay itself back, you know that too. At least as important is the fact that this extra manpower does not only allow money flows to be mapped out and confiscated, but also that these flows lead to possible other criminal organisations or cases, which may not even be known yet. Minister, how many extra full-time equivalents do you intend to recruit in order to map out criminal money flows? Will both the federal judicial police and the public prosecutor be strengthened in this area? Is this a fill-in of the existing framework, which has not yet been fully completed? Or will you extend the current framework further? Will the reinforcement of these services be based on a workload measurement so that reinforcement can be provided in the right places? That seems rather essential to me. COIV also has an important role to play here, Minister. Would you also like to strengthen the COIV? How do you wish to make the COIV more performant?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u41	Madam President, Mrs De Wit, the magistrate and police have already taken initiatives in the past in the field of looted detectives. I refer to the so-called picking teams that were set up, the financial detectives that were attracted, the expert network magistrates that were replaced, the College for the fight against social and tax fraud. The Director-General of the Federal Judicial Police, Eric Snoeck, who took the oath on Monday, after having had to wait two years under the government of ongoing cases, has drawn up an action plan entitled DGJ 3.0. This plan must respond to the need to tackle organised crime more vigorously, including in the field of financial investigations. This means that expertise in data management and financial analysis should be sought, among other things. That plan was drawn up in consultation with the magistrate and with the validation of the Federal Police Commissioner General. With the federal judicial police, budgetary space was created to recruit 450 extra people. There are specialized profiles between which criminal financial flows will be mapped. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that not only the specialist financial investigators will pay attention to the detection of criminal assets, as other investigators are already doing so, and I want to see this strengthened. In other words, all relevant investigations, e.g. drug investigations and investigations into trafficking in human beings, should cover the detectives who took the booty. So I do not want to pin myself on a certain number of investigators, because financial detectives must be part of every investigation when necessary and must therefore be part of each detective's competences. In the context of the profit-oriented investigation, the same exercise is, of course, also taking place in the public prosecutors, the tax and ecofin magistrates and the magistrates of the criminal investigation, the SUO magistrates. The Public Prosecutor is currently drawing up proposals to strengthen the public prosecutors' offices under the EUR 125 million, with budgetary control, and we must, of course, note that these investments will pay themselves back, as a pilot project at the public prosecutor's office in Ghent has shown. I come to your next question. A number of functions are part of the current framework and, given the specific requirements for financial analysis, a number of functions are completely new. In the field of police, attention is paid to the central level and, above all, to those units which were already assigned special powers by the previous government, in particular Brussels, Antwerp, Liège, Ghent and Bergen. The legal basis for this can be found in Article 105, § 11, of the Integrated Police Act. In the very short term, a special effort will be made for the FGP of Antwerp. I'll come to COIV. It is now being considered whether we can increase the number of liaison officers of the federal judicial police within COIV. This has to do with the growing challenges of looted detectives, the creation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and the impact of criminal investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u42	Minister, I will have to look at your answer again, but I have already noted reinforcement, extra manpower and the release of budgetary space. I wonder to what extent that will be very specific to the investigation of criminal money flows, or more generally. If I have understood you correctly, it is not intended to be very specific, but you would like to make it all a little broader. I have not heard you talk about the criterion of workload measurement, which makes you assess where more people or certain profiles can be used. However, I think it is important that the additional staff and the additional resources should all be put in the right place where they are really needed. Well, that's a point of interest, isn't it? You did not answer the question about COIV. So I think there is some work to be done, but that will be one of your recruits, Minister. I will certainly come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u43	Minister, both our group and Mrs Gabriels asked a question about this last week, and I put the answers side by side. I didn't think they were unambiguous. I hope you don't blame me for coming back to it. More specifically, it concerns the interruption of sentences and early release in the context of the corona crisis. In reply to Mrs Gabriel's question, last week you said that 221 prisoners were released early during the first wave. You added that no serious incidents have been reported. When I asked you the same question, you replied that a dozen of those 221 prisoners had committed new crimes after they were released. The police area of my municipality, Mr Metsu, which is mayor in a neighbouring municipality, is also faced with something very specific. Someone who is supposed to be in prison until 2026 has been suspended and has applied for a passport to travel to Dubai. I may not have to tell you what concerns this raises. By the way, there is no extradition treaty with Dubai, so this is a specific problem. I therefore believe that there is a risk of a flight, and yet this person has been suspended. My concern has not really disappeared since last week, since I became aware of it. Since the figures are wrong and I would like to be able to assess them, I would like to ask you for some additional figures in order to get a good overview of all the measures taken to implement the sentence since the start of the corona crisis. As regards the prisoners who were released six months before their sentence, I would like to know how many cases of early release were revoked and for what reason? You stated that during the second wave of the 135 inmates who were released early, no one was imprisoned again because of new facts. Does this mean that none of them committed new facts or that they did not give rise to any new facts? How many of the inmates who were allowed to leave prison because of the interruption of sentence due to COVID-19 committed new offences? With regard to how many of them were found not to comply with the other conditions? What action has been taken on this? I would have liked to have been given an overview of the type and number of penalties for which execution has so far been blocked in connection with the circular from the College of Attorneys-General, which imposes new non-urgent sentences for the time being. Is it allowed, for the categories I have just described, to travel abroad? If so, don't you consider that a risk of flight? If not, how can this be prevented? How, for example, can the administration refuse to deliver the documents if they are requested? Finally, you told Mrs Gabriels that there were no new incidents. You replied to me that a dozen people have committed new facts. Do I have to understand, Minister, that you do not consider new facts or new crimes to be serious incidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u44	Thank you for your questions, Mr De Wit. As far as your first question is concerned, during the first wave, 19 prisoners who were able to benefit from early release were re-incarcerated. The reason for the withdrawal of the authorisation in those 19 files shall not be kept digitally. Therefore, I cannot provide you with this information. During the second wave, no one was locked up again of the 135 inmates. We have no knowledge of new facts. As regards those prisoners who were able to benefit from the COVID-19 penalty interruption during the first wave, it is not possible to give the figures relating to new offences because they were not registered digitally. On the 323 prisoners who have been able to benefit from this measure since the beginning of the second wave, four prisoners have been imprisoned again. Two of them seriously endangered the physical and psychological integrity of third parties, one person did not comply with the terms and one person committed new offences. I come to your questions about the letter from the College of Attorney General. You asked for an overview of the type and number of penalties. I'll send you that by e-mail, because it's a pretty bulky document. It concerns the COL 7bis, which is, by the way, an extension of the COL 6/020 of 26 March and is similar. You have also asked questions about the admission to travel abroad. As explained in the justification for Amendments 9 to 15, which introduced that measure in the Law of 20 December, a measure which is not subject to any conditions has been explicitly chosen. Why did we do that? It was the only possible choice to maintain the penalty-interrupting nature of the measure. If not, we should have chosen leave and then the punishment continued while the people were out of prison. Moreover, there was also the case-law of the Court of Cassation, which declared the similar measures taken in the order of power of attorney of 9 April 2020 unconstitutional, since the penalty-interrupting nature could not be reconciled with the fact that there were forwards attached to the measure. The result of that choice is that, by analogy with the interruption of the sentence for serious and exceptional reasons, the law provides for a basis for a provisional arrest by the King's Attorney in cases of serious endangering the physical and psychological integrity of third parties and thus not the basis for a withdrawal for breach of the conditions, since the latter are not there. It is not so much that it is allowed to travel abroad within the framework of the measures, but the chosen legal framework prevents the imposition of the condition which implies such a ban. However, it can be recalled that criteria which must be met in order to qualify for the measure and which were strengthened in relation to the measure taken in spring, in particular three positive penitentiary leave, combined with the assessment of the legally determined counter-indication, including the risk of punishment and the various exclusion provisions. For the modalities to which a ban on travelling abroad is linked, the necessary agreements were made with the Foreign Affairs Office to operationalise the ban. A joint circular was sent by the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence, with instructions on the provision of information to the Foreign Affairs Office for the application of the rules on refusal to issue and withdrawal of travel documents. The circular letter was also translated for the prisons into instructions for the penitentiary institutions. That's the collective letter No. 139. The use of the wording of serious incidents is indeed open to different interpretations. All new facts are undisputed. The persons concerned were imprisoned again and rightly risk a further conviction. What we mean is that if new facts were committed, they were no more serious than those for which they were condemned in the past. It is also important to take account of the scope and exclusion criteria for temporary measures. Not everyone is eligible. There were no major incidents in the first wave. The number of acts committed and their nature did not give rise to any adjustment of the temporary and necessary measures. The COVID-19 measures aim at temporarily reducing the pressure on prisons in order to keep the crisis manageable for the prisoners and, in particular, for the staff. They are, once again, in no way structural.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I'll take a quiet look at the numbers. So there may be another follow-up question. You understand the concern, don't you? You say they are not structural measures, but we are already in the process of March 2020. That's almost a year. If you ask me, a measure is already beginning to seem rather structural. I am very concerned about that. I don't think it's a good idea for the prison doors to open. The doors of other things close to protect people, but here we create a security risk. The assessment is obviously not clear, because you say that it is only a serious incident if it is more serious than the incident for which one was convicted. A new crime is a serious incident for me, Minister. That's not up for discussion. It shows that one should not have been eligible to be released. A new crime means a new victim, new damage. That supports the argument that it is not a correct measure. I understand that health within the prison walls is not evident and that measures must be taken from a human point of view, but you are taking a security risk. I believe that these are serious incidents. You also pose some local authorities with considerable challenges. Since there are no conditions attached to the provisional release, one must already be very creative in order to avoid someone leaving abroad. I think it is difficult to explain this to society if we find that these are people who would actually have to spend several years in prison. After all, that same society also expects its safety to be guaranteed. We did not agree on this measure, and there is still scope for remedial action in the case of repeated cases, but I think that you should consider carefully the need to tackle these cases more strictly, and that there should also be a risk of recidivism or flight.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u46	Madam President, Mr Boukili, Justice is responsible for the perception of the transactions it issues. It is indeed an impressive amount, which proves to us that Justice has made significant progress in collecting fines. Justice is responsible for file analysis, the issuance of transactions and the collection of such transactions. The allocation of revenues is absolutely not within the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice. Once Justice receives the money, we inform the FPS Finance so that it can track the state's accounting. In addition, there is an essential budgetary principle called the non-allocation of revenue, as set out in section 60 of the Federal Government Budget and Accounting Organization Act of 2003: "All revenue shall apply to all expenditure". Moreover, in accordance with the principle of universality provided for in article 174, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, which states: "All revenue and expenditure of the State shall be entered in the budget and accounts", the proceeds of the criminal fines imposed to sanction non-compliance with the rules of the Corona directly contribute to the general budget of the State. It is the federal government's responsibility to determine the objectives to be pursued with the overall revenues available to it based on the policies it intends to pursue. The government has chosen to support those affected by the coronavirus crisis, which is not only a health crisis but also a serious socio-economic crisis. In these support measures, the federal government focuses on four main objectives: first, to support those who had a job but who, because of the difficult situation caused by coronavirus, lost it or had to close their business. We want to support them both in their income and in the maintenance of their social rights; secondly, to save healthy businesses by supporting them both in terms of their liquidity and solvency. Self-employed people who are forced to close their businesses are again entitled to federal bridging loans, which are doubled compared to the spring closure period. For those who do not have to close their business but who see their turnover decrease, the double bridge fee is extended until February 28, 2021. There is also the exemption from social security contributions for the third quarter of 2020, as well as the deferral of the payment of taxes and contributions at least until the end of the year. The federal government will also fund the year-end premium for staff in the hotel and catering industry; thirdly, support people in poverty or at increased risk of poverty. They are often disproportionately affected by the coronavirus crisis; fourthly, to strengthen the crucial sectors that have been particularly affected by the crisis, in particular health care, education, agriculture and horticulture. You will see with me that, given the four main objectives, the amount we have allocated is not seven million euros but a few billion euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u47	Minister, thank you for the answers that I have received so far. I'll come back to ask you more specifically later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u48	Madam President, Minister, I have recently asked you about the shortage of judges. First of all, you said that you regularly checked the judiciary. Then you informed me that 202 vacant places had been published in 2020. In addition, a final holiday plan was discussed on 8 December for an amount of EUR 5 million, from all categories of staff. In addition, part of the budget of $125 million would be spent on the hiring of magistrates, but you could not yet specify the amount. Finally, legal frameworks for judges and judicial personnel would be replaced, possibly through a transitional regime. However, you did not answer the following specific questions. Pending the reform, will you respect the framework that is still in place? Once the reform has been implemented, will the new allocation system bring staff at least to the level of the current framework? This is not a theoretical question, minister. The judgment handed down by the Brussels Court of First Instance on 13 March 2020 requires you, under penalty, to publish all the vacant places of magistrates and clerks as of 17 January 2020, as well as all places whose vacancy was foreseeable within ten months. To the best of my knowledge, this judgment has not been appealed. It is applied independently of the reform or the government agreement. Therefore, Minister, have you published all the vacant places on 17 January 2020, as well as all the places whose vacancies were expected within 10 months, in accordance with the above-mentioned judgment? If not, would you please explain to me the reason, as well as the number of places still to be published in order to comply with the judgment? How long do you intend to execute this one? What is the current amount of the penalty payment? Are enforcement measures against the Belgian State in progress? Under the speciality principle of the budget, could you explain to me the share of the $125 million for the hiring of new staff for justice, category by category?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I can inform you that the Belgian State has indeed brought an appeal against the judgment of the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels of 13 March 2020. The hearing was held on September 3. The time limits for conclusion have been set. By this judgment, the Belgian State was ordered to publish, within three months of notification, all the vacant places for magistrates and Registry staff on 17 January 2020, and those whose vacancies were foreseeable within ten months of that date, under penalty of a penalty of EUR 1 000 per day of delay and per unfilled place whose vacancy was not published within that period, with a maximum of EUR 250 000. The Belgian State perceives sufficient legal elements in this case to enable the Court of Appeal to reconsider the facts. Since this issue is therefore the subject of an ongoing appeal, I cannot go further on the various increases or the substantive elements. Irrespective of the outcome of this appeal procedure, my administration continues to monitor the filling of legal frameworks and the vacancies are periodically published for those places that have become vacant. These vacancies are determined on the basis of concrete management priorities on the basis of a proposal from the College of Courts and Courts and the College of the Public Prosecutor's Office, on the basis of available staff credits and on the basis of existing recruitment reserves. In 2020, 201 judicial posts had been declared vacant, 52 of which had not yet been filled and some procedures were still under way. So there's a shortage of candidates. Sometimes, from a credit of persons available, no judge's office is declared vacant, but rather lawyers or referenda because there are candidates for these positions. There is no need to declare vacancies each time if there are no candidates. Here, too, we did not remain inactive. We are trying to make the profession more attractive by improving the social status and working environment. Examinations for judicial internships and professional competence have recently been announced. I have already made a warm appeal - I think - to the lawyers to participate. I have even found that in the Netherlands they have appreciated this appeal made by the minister himself. I hope that many candidates will run. My management objective is to maintain the number of members of the Judicial Order, both as magistrates and as judicial personnel, and to increase this number where necessary, in line with actual needs on the ground and the objective measurement of workload. In addition, the Government continues to have the objective of using part of the additional budget of EUR 125 million for justice in 2021 to strengthen the staff of the Judicial Order. This additional investment will be used as proposed in my action plan to make justice faster, more firm and more humane, for example for accelerated procedure and assistance (...) of the Drug Treatment Chambers (CTT). The precise amount of the part which will be devoted to staff strengthening, in addition to all other needs within the departments of justice, must still be determined on the basis of the legal proposals, and after the ongoing consultation with the representatives of the Judicial Order. The deadline for this first budgetary control is March. Here are my answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand that the Belgian State has brought an action and that the case is still pending. On the other hand, if you had previously informed me that there were 201 or 202 vacant places, I still did not always get an answer to my question about the totality of the vacant places. Nor have I received a precise answer as to the amount which will be allocated, in the EUR 125 million envelope, to the commitment of staff for justice. So I expect you to give me more precise answers in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u51	Madam President, Minister, I wish you all the best. Minister, you certainly heard a few weeks ago about Mr. Andrea Rea's rock dossier, which was revealed by the newspaper Le Soir. Mr Rea is this renowned sociology professor at the Université libre de Bruxelles (ULB), whose naturalisation dossier was arrested following a negative – and extremely surprising – opinion of the prosecution. As you know, the first paragraph of Article 12a of the Belgian Nationality Code sets out several criteria that an alien must meet in order to be naturalized. An alien may acquire Belgian nationality if he or she has been legally resident in Belgium for at least five years and provides proof of his or her knowledge of one of the three national languages and of his or her economic and social integration. Since these criteria are what they are, I am surprised, Minister, that such a procedure does not allow a person like Mr Rea to obtain naturalization. It is very unlikely that the person concerned would meet these criteria. Therefore, this type of case causes trouble on all files giving rise to a negative opinion. An administrative error related to the documents that Mr. Rea should have rendered was highlighted. Does this mean, therefore, that the prosecutor who has to rule on the file is constantly refusing the application for naturalization if a bad document is returned instead of another? It seems appropriate to ask us the question of such discretion in the Chief Prosecutor's Office on the application of the law. It is not desirable for some people to discourage themselves from acquiring Belgian nationality on the basis of a manifestly ill-founded negative answer, in particular because of the cumbersome procedures for appeal. Moreover, this is not the first time that this discretionary power raises questions since the Prosecutor's interpretation of the criterion of serious personal facts in the field of naturalization is also the subject of numerous criticisms, notably from Myria, the Federal Centre for Migration. Mr Minister, do you intend to ensure better communication between the public prosecutor's office, the municipalities and the applicants in the naturalisation procedure in order to prevent such incidents from happening again in the future? If so, how? Do you have any statistics on the number of appeals against the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office resulting in the granting of nationality? Are there precedents for these administrative errors which give rise to a negative opinion on the part of the prosecutor? Finally, do you consider that the discretion of the Public Prosecutor's Office is too wide with regard to applications for naturalization? How do you view the very broad interpretation that the Prosecutor's Office gives, in many cases, to the test of serious personal facts? Do you consider it necessary to address this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I also wish you well. Beyond the individual case you are referring to, which seems to fall within the scope of the declaration of nationality and not of naturalisation, and on which I am not responsible, I would like to answer your questions. First, as Minister of Justice, a member of the executive branch, I have no legal competence to intervene in the procedures for the acquisition of nationality introduced by adults. Article 15 of the Belgian Nationality Code explicitly assigned this jurisdiction to the municipality and to the Public Prosecutor's Office of the King. The application for nationality shall be submitted to the municipality, which shall examine whether it is complete and therefore admissible in the light of the Royal Decree of 14 January 2013 laying down in detail the documents and evidence to be produced in connection with an application for nationality. If so, it shall forward the request to the Public Prosecutor's Office. The latter may issue a negative opinion on the acquisition of Belgian nationality where there is an obstacle resulting from serious personal facts which he must specify in the reasons for his opinion or where the basic conditions, which he must indicate, are not fulfilled. This decision may be challenged before the family court by the persons concerned as provided for in article 15, paragraphs 5 et seq. of the Belgian Nationality Code. In the light of the above, you will understand that I cannot take a position in individual cases currently under way in order to give instructions to the Public Prosecutor's Office since the law expressly assigns to the latter that decision-making competence in the granting of Belgian nationality. Otherwise, the principle of the independence of the Public Prosecutor's Office as defined in article 151 of the Constitution would be undermined. The independence of the Public Prosecutor's Office stems from the principle of the separation of powers on which our legal system is based. For its part, the College of Public Prosecutors is not aware of any communication problems between civil registrars and prosecutors regarding the procedures for granting Belgian nationality in which prosecutors intervene. Secondly, my administration does not keep statistics on the granting of nationality. In each case, they must apply to the competent authorities, namely the National Register and the Chamber of Naturalization. To the best of my knowledge, however, it is not possible to obtain statistics from the National Register on the number of appeals against the negative opinions of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The College of Attorneys General was also unable to provide the required statistics. Third, nationality laws are mandatory and of public policy. As a result, nationality is acquired, preserved or lost exclusively in accordance with the conditions and manner laid down therein. It cannot be the subject of specific transactions. There is therefore no question of negotiating with the political authority or with the administration or with the judge or anyone else the acquisition or loss of Belgian nationality. Everything must be done within the strict limits of the laws, the conditions and procedures they provide for. The scope of interpretation by prosecutors is rather limited because of the clear and precise statement of the conditions set out in the provisions in force. This interpretation is also subject to review through appeals to the Family Court. The problem raised does not therefore require the adoption of specific measures to remedy it. These are my answers, Mr. De Smet!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answer. We are actually talking about an acquisition of nationality. You reminded me of the legislation. I do not, of course, ask for you to intervene with the prosecutor's office, but the prosecutor's office does, according to the law, deliver its opinions in this procedure. You may have an opinion on the criteria set out in the law. We need to understand the concern here. If, in Mr. Rea's case, the prosecutor's error is obvious, because the knowledge of the language and the integration of the person concerned are of public knowledge, it may be thought that there are similar errors of assessment in many less well-known cases. In my view, the law should be reviewed in order to challenge the prosecutor's discretion with respect to evidence documents. We will consider a parliamentary initiative in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u54	Madam President, Minister, as part of the implementation of ministerial orders for measures to combat the spread of coronavirus, the police have repeatedly entered private homes. The possibility for the police to enter a private home is an exception, strictly interpreted, to the constitutional principle of the inviolability of the home. It is based on two legal bases. On the one hand, article 27 of the Law on the Police Function authorizes officers to carry out administrative searches in private places. This possibility, which is a serious violation of the right to private and family life, must meet strict conditions of proportionality. In its first versions, COL 6/2020 allowed for the implementation of article 27 of the Law on the Police Function in the context of the enforcement of covid orders. This had not been without controversy. And, if I am not mistaken, from the version of 15 December 2020, the COL explicitly excludes interventions on this basis. On the other hand, the Code of Criminal Investigation allows the king's prosecutor and judicial police officers to enter a private place without a search warrant in case of flagrante delicto or crime. In the context of compliance with the measures of the covid orders, the College of Procurators General has conditioned this possibility on the authorization of a prosecutor, as it seemed clear that there were risks of non-proportionality. Minister, all searches carried out by the police to verify the application of the covid orders therefore now require flagrance, unless of course the inhabitants give their consent which must be written and prior. The flagrance must be established prior to the search. The mere presumption or mere clues are not enough. According to the Court of Cassation, the finding of the state of flagrance must precede the search and the latter cannot, in any case, be justified by the a posteriori finding of the flagrante delicto. As the researchers Nathalie Colette-Basquez and Élise Delhaise pointed out last December, "a report from neighbours, the number of cars parked in the parking lot, the number of orders from the caterer seems therefore very light to justify a search without a warrant at the Belgians' home". Minister, do we have the numbers of searches conducted to combat covid in 2020? How many of them were motivated by denunciations? What assessment do you make of strict compliance with the condition of flagrante delicto?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u55	Madam President, Mrs Hugon, thank you for your questions. As you know, in recent months I have already answered various questions on this subject in this committee. You know, therefore, that I attach great importance to Article 15 of the Constitution. Our Constitution explicitly states that the home is inviolable: "No home visit may take place only in the cases provided for by law and in the form prescribed by law." It is on the basis of this commitment that the points on i have been put in the latest adaptation of the directive of the College of Prosecutors General COL°6/2020. An administrative search, as made possible in exceptional cases by section 27 of the Police Function Act, is now completely excluded. Without a warrant from the investigating judge, a search is only possible, as provided for by law, in the event of the resident's consent or in case of flagrante delicto. However, in the latter case, we have introduced an additional guarantee, i.e. that there must be prior contact with the prosecutor, because we just want to avoid the notion of flagrante delicto being too broad. They must be findings rather than suspicions. Unfortunately, I can't give you any figures on the number of covid-19 searches. They don't exist. I can assure you, however, that searches are not decided lightly. At the police level, everyone, including the integrated police and police unions, responded positively to this strengthening and clarification of the COL. So the police were not asking to do things differently. In practice, therefore, the police state is not as bad as some claim in the press. For those who do not take seriously the principles of our rule of law and article 15 of the Constitution, there is the strengthened COL which is of course binding on all prosecutors and the police. Furthermore, the prosecutor's office monitors compliance with this COL in real time if it is contacted for a test of flagrante delicto and post factum if it monitors the minutes. Finally, the judge's level is the last touchstone. It is of course the criminal judge if the persons are summoned by the public prosecutor before the police judge, either directly or after failing to pay the settlement amicably.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answers. You did indeed recall the legal framework that I also pointed out in my question as well as the additional tags that are provided by the COL, particularly in its latest version. Of course, I find it unfortunate that we do not have figures that would allow, for example, to know the rate of acceptance of searches by prosecutors. I do not know if this lack of figures is temporary, because I asked you the question recently, or if there are just no figures available. Maybe in the next question I can get a little more information. It would seem enlightening to me to know a little more precisely whether, on the ground, it is something that has been done in large numbers and under what conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u57	Madam President, Minister, we were a little waiting for the courts to react to those lockdown parties. This week, the Antwerp police court condemned 23 young people for their presence at so-called lockdown parties. The judge issued sentences ranging from 1,200 euros to even two months in prison. A prison sentence for a young person who attended a lockdown party sounds like a heavy sentence at first sight. You also know, however, that in practice this does not in itself represent much in Belgium. Prison sentences under three years are not carried out. Don't get me wrong, Minister, this is not a plea to put young people in prison. I don't want that said. You want to carry out short sentences. You announced in the media that you would maintain the corona measures. Someone who doesn't pay the fine should go to court, so it was better to pay the fine. Well, they're coming to court and they're getting a prison sentence that we actually know in advance that it's not going to be carried out de facto. A punishment imposed, whatever punishment it may be, and however short it may be, will only be effective if something happens to it. Minister, what is the impact and consequences of a pronounced prison sentence of about two months, as in this case? If she's not executed, the only punishment is that this is listed in the criminal record. Or is the sentence converted into an anklet, as part of the sentence? After all, you also know that there are letters of conversion. For these short sentences, that is not always done. Do you believe that a short sentence in prison provides a useful punishment in the context of maintaining the corona measures? I am interested in your position on this matter. A pandemic law has been announced for a long time. We're looking forward to that. You refer to your colleague, Mr Verlinden, but we are not here yet, and in the meantime the court and the police must continue. The measures were also extended, so enforcement will have to continue. If sanctions are to be provided for in that pandemic law, because that is your shop, shouldn't alternatives be considered? Today, a judge has the choice between a fine and a prison sentence. However, this is a prison sentence that is not being carried out. Some of those crooks at parties, they don't care if it's in their criminal records, because they probably already have more. I don't want to generalize, it's not about everyone. Will other punishments be provided for? Maybe getting a job is useful. For a young person who is not a crook but was at a party we can still understand that, because we all feel like celebrating a report in the criminal record could be an obstacle to his further development. Isn't community service a more useful punishment? They can then carry around meals somewhere, make themselves useful to society. I'm giving you this tip to take with you to your pandemic law, which I hope you will work urgently. Finally, will the law on external legal status for prison sentences of less than three years after repeated delay finally come into force? We had said that we would carry out all these sentences. That law should enter into force on 1 April this year. Will that happen, Minister? Or are you planning another delay? If that were the case, what date would it take?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u58	Madam President, Minister, the Act of 20 December 2020, which contains various and temporary provisions on covid-19, reintroduced a second version of a measure that had been decided, namely the interruption of the execution of the sentence, with the aim, for health reasons, of combating prison overcrowding. Minister, since the coming into force of this new law and the new version, do you already have any statistics that can tell us how many inmates have benefited from a penalty break? How is the effective implementation of these sentencing measures taking place? In relation to the number of applications, what was the number of refusals indicated by the prison management? Do these measures achieve the objective set out in the law, namely to establish a better health situation and to combat overcrowding in prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u59	Madam President, I would like to begin by asking Mr De Wit about the consequences of the prison sentences. Mrs De Wit, you know the policy in this area. This is explained in exactly the same letter as under the previous government, i.e. by letter 1817 concerning the provisional release. As a result, convicted persons with main prison sentences of a maximum of four months are immediately released. If these persons are not sentenced to other liberty-making prison sentences, the sentences of up to two months, as you have said in your question, will indeed not be carried out. You ask me if I believe that short prison sentences can be a useful punishment. The legislator provided for a wide range of legal penalties, but still retained the possibility to impose short prison sentences. The imposition of a short prison sentence mainly has a signal function. I think that's useful. Contrary to what you say, corona offenders are generally not frequent or hard-class lawbreakers, but when they are sentenced to a prison sentence, however minimal, it does create a deterrent effect. The sentence for a short sentence always has an impact, even if the sentence is not carried out in practice. The conviction is also mentioned on the criminal record. The impact on people who have not been in contact with the courts before should not be underestimated. For the pandemic law, I refer to the work done by the Minister of the Interior at the moment. Its content will be discussed in detail within the government and in Parliament. It also addresses the penalties to which you referred. You asked us whether we should wait until after the crisis. It is certainly not the intention to use the pandemic law in the current pandemic. As the Minister of the Interior said earlier, the law is intended for the future. As regards the law on external legal status, it is true that the law of 31 July 2020 postponed the entry into force of the law until 1 April 2021. That delay was specifically motivated by the consequences of the pandemic. Preparations, such as recruitment, were interrupted. In addition, exceptional measures had to be taken in the execution of the sentence, thus avoiding the entry into force of the law on the external legal status of detainees for the part of the sentence under three years of age at all times. For example, the pandemic put sentenced people in an interruption and the ordinary regime in prison still had to be resumed. It was not appropriate to allow the entry into force of the law to coincide with the pandemic, which had a significant impact on normal entry and exit into prisons. Soon we will evaluate whether we can keep the date of 1 April 2021. Here too, the evolution of the sanitary crisis will be closely monitored. Mr. Aouasti, 323 prisoners have benefited from an interruption in the execution of the covid-19 sentence since the law came into force. Ministerial Circular 1823 details the procedure for granting an interruption of the execution of the covid-19 sentence. Convicted persons who have already received three prison leave that has been well conducted and who are not covered by one of the exclusion criteria set out in Circular 1823 are informed of the possibility of applying. The convicted persons concerned then submit a written request for an interruption of the execution of the sentence to the Director. Upon receipt of the application, the Director shall examine the other conditions, the existence of contraindications, the receipt of a reception address and the availability of sufficient means of subsistence. On that basis, the Director shall give a reasoned decision on whether to grant or refuse. In its award decision, it shall determine the date on which that decision becomes enforceable. It should be noted that if a convicted person who is not eligible for the measure and who has not received a standard form makes an application in any form whatsoever, a decision of refusal shall be made. The decision of the director shall be handed over to the convicted person. If it is positive, the prosecutor of the king of the district in which the suspension of the execution of the sentence takes place shall be informed, as soon as possible, of the granting of the suspension of the execution of the sentence of the prosecutors who have a sentence in execution. If the Sentence Enforcement Court has already been brought before it, the Public Prosecutor's Office at the Sentence Enforcement Court and the Sentence Enforcement Court itself will also be informed of the award decision. The competent house of justice shall be informed in the event that the suspension of the execution of the sentence is granted to a convicted person who is in limited detention. The victim shall be informed as soon as possible and, in any case, within 24 hours by the fastest written means of communication, of the granting of the interruption of the execution of the sentence. This information must be made in the manner requested by the victim, i.e. through his/her lawyer, the victim reception service or other means. With regard to the number of requests for interruptions and the refusal rate, out of 351 cases eligible for an interruption of sentence, 346 applications were submitted, or 98.5%. Only 23 requests for interruptions were refused, at a rate of 6.6 per cent. Finally, on the impact, as at 1 December 2020, there were 10,730 inmates; today the number is 10,368, a decrease of 3.5%. These measures therefore have the effect of reducing prison overcrowding and thereby reducing the pressure on prisons where possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u60	Minister, if you do something and you knock yourself on the chest and say 'no words, but deeds', then you are the minister responsible for rock 'n' roll. But if the question is more difficult, then you refer to the previous government. Up to Chrysostomos you may continue to do so, but you are now the Minister of Justice, and that will not be easy anymore, because you are the one who promises that justice will be faster and more punished. This is perhaps also the time to revisit that letter. After all, you have already done so with another letter, you have communicated about it and you have put the plumes on your hat. There are still letters which can be reviewed, and this is one of them, the transposition of penalties and the execution of short sentences, so that there is no longer the impunity that exists now. But this whole thing aside. I just saw Mr Aouasti shake no when I was talking about the criminal record. I am aware that a lot of those present at these parties are not all crooks. I know, and I don't mean to send them all to jail. That's not what I wanted to say. However, the experience in my police area tells me that there are a lot of them in Antwerp, as in this file, who already have a record. To my great regret, unlike many others, they are no longer impressed by those two months that are not being carried out because it is yet another two months that are not being carried out. Don't get me wrong. For many people who have attended a party, it will be a signal, but there are always people for whom that is not the case. We need to look at this more generally in the context of our punishment. I understand Mr Aouasti's no-brain and your comment, but there are other cases where that signal function does not work. I'm sure we'll see them again soon at a lockdown party. Minister, I am trying to help and be constructive. Today there is only the choice between a fine or a prison sentence. In such cases, prison sentences are not always adequate. Maybe an alternative, like community service, would be better for them. I have heard you say that the pandemic bill that is coming will no longer be for this pandemic, but for the next one. Are you kidding me? I can't reach that. I'm actually shocked. I know that you have said that it must be spacious and be able to apply to several things. I understand that there is no regulation for one case. One should be able to take it out of the closet again afterwards. A state of emergency would also have been an alternative, as in other countries. We're one of the few countries that doesn't have that. I don't understand why you can say it's not for this pandemic anymore, but for the next one. I hope that we will not have another pandemic and that we will never need such a law again. What I do know is that we need them now, Minister. I understand the measures and the restrictions on our freedoms, but the fact that they are taking place today without a legal basis, without a pandemic law, without a thorough basis, is gradually getting a bit harsher, especially now that we were able to hear yesterday evening that they are being toughly extended and that the relevant minister in the media states: 'We did not think that they would be stumbled upon'. How long has a pandemic bill been requested, Minister? What you are announcing today, I find pitiful, certainly of a Minister of Justice who at other times claims that he must also guard the rule of law. If there are violations of measures, action must be taken. I think that this is only consistent, because if there is no sanction against a rule, it makes no sense. You must make sure that there is a clear basis. Very important, Parliament is here. We want to work. I believe that it has taken us long enough to stand aside and be eliminated. Come to Parliament with a law, let us debate it, and let us see if we can set up the necessary checks-and-balances, but do not take any more tough measures, as is happening now, because then we will stumble very often.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u61	Minister, thank you. As I wished, I received the statistics. It is interesting to compare them with previous statistics, which show that with the strengthening of the measures, 60 per cent of the number of prisoners were able to benefit from the measure of interruption of the execution of the sentence; when the first sentence was applied, some 500 prisoners were concerned. This reduces prison overcrowding by 3.5 per cent. Thank you for the statistics, Minister. I will probably come back after 31 March to see how all this worked more comprehensively and to make an evaluation of both systems; I do believe that these statistics are of interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u62	Madam President, Minister, freedom of expression is dear to both of us. This means that we must respect other people's opinions and, of course, we must give everyone the opportunity to express them. In this respect, we are not in the best period of history. The European Commission is currently preparing a proposal for a European Digital Services Act. This proposal should replace the outdated e-commerce directive and adapt it to the current context. The Commission's new proposal aims to clarify how social media platforms, such as Twitter, Facebook and so on, should deal with and remove illegal content. For example, the proposal stipulates that the platforms are responsible for the illegal content they would give free space on their platform. The facts are what they are: de facto the platforms actually provide a public service today. They are also virtually monopoly holders in a very important form of exchange of ideas and debate, sometimes at level, but also very often at not such a top level, but who are we to be too judgmental about that? The danger of the European proposal is obvious: it calls on the platforms to take the place of courts, to decide for themselves whether a content can or cannot. Moreover, for example, the user does not even have the possibility to appeal to the platforms in all national languages. That's not a small detail. You are, of course, aware of the logic of Article 25 of the Constitution, the so-called cascade system, which is intended to ensure that the publisher or the printer is only responsible from the moment when the perpetrator himself is not known. This is a system that the European Digital Services Act is turning a bit upside-down. Hence my questions, Minister. What do you think of this mechanism that the European Union is apparently working on? How do you assess this mechanism in the light of freedom of expression, which we should not allow to be curtailed, but rather give the full scope? How do you assess that directive in relation to Article 19 of the Constitution, but also Article 25, which prohibits censorship? Finally, how should we see it in relation to Article 25, which introduces the cascade system and which places responsibility on the right person, namely the person who may distribute illegal content rather than the person to whom illegal content is distributed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u63	Madam President, Mr De Roover, thank you for your current question. It is true that, across the board, I will use the articles of our Constitution as a touchstone in my assessment of the European Commission's proposal. In particular, these are Articles 19 and 25, which I believe can provide an interesting perspective in this debate. In addition, there is, of course, Article 10 of the ECHR, which states that freedom of expression is the rule. In my view, large private companies cannot restrict that freedom of expression. Digital services are still largely framed within the EU by the 2000 e-commerce directive. Then the digital landscape looked completely different. I don't even know if social media existed back then. In any case, online shopping was exceptional, apps did not exist or hardly existed and social media were at most in its infancy. In just 20 years, there has been a true digital revolution. An adapted legal framework is therefore absolutely necessary. In December, the Commission formulated its proposals for the Digital Services Act. These are three objectives: firstly, to stimulate competition between digital service providers, in particular to break the dominant position; secondly, to create a secure cyberspace that respects the fundamental rights of users; and thirdly, to provide greater legal certainty for users and service providers. I believe that these three objectives or principles are promising. In concrete terms, the Commission's proposals provide for a number of obligations. I'll give you some non-limitative examples. Firstly, there will be clear rules on the removal of illegal goods, services or content online. Secondly, there will be safeguards for users who believe that their content was wrongly deleted by digital platforms. In certain cases, sanctions and fines may also be imposed up to 10% of the annual turnover. It is very important that the Digital Services Act does not define what is illegal. This is provided for in the national legislation of the Member States and/or other EU instruments, such as the regulation on terrorist online content. A ruling is therefore still defined by national legislation. Given the differences between the Member States, it seems difficult to achieve otherwise. The Commission's proposals must therefore now go through the normal EU legislative procedure. This means a discussion with the Council and therefore with the Member States. The European Parliament is also involved in this. As I have said, Articles 19 and 25 of the Constitution will be a test for me in assessing these proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for the historic presentation. I do not know when these social networks have just started, but now they are everywhere. They put us in a great challenge and we all have to take responsibility for using those platforms. I am concerned about the direction the debate is taking. The last few weeks, by the way, there has been a rapid acceleration. It is not so much an unwavering effort to guarantee freedom of expression but rather a search to limit it, to see what is to be banned. I have a very liberal vision in this regard, and that is why I am keeping a very close eye on this government. The same goes, of course, for the European Union, as they just require the platforms with such initiatives to adopt a more repressive approach. You say that the user has access to redress where content is wrongly deleted. In practice, however, they are not available in English, to say anything. Well, that's a threshold, isn't it? In the meantime, a ban of Facebook or Twitter has taken place. I learned yesterday from an old fellow student that his Facebook profile was inaccessible for seven days because he wrote: "Rare boys, those Americans." It is possible that Asterix and Obelix are not known by Facebook because each country has its own culture but it should be very important for us to be banned from Facebook for seven days today. The government must make an effort to ensure that these platforms do not act repressively. Now one prefers to ban someone too quickly from the platform in order not to allow any illegal content. No, it is those who put this content on the social media that need to be addressed. The good user should not be the victim of this. By the way, it's the court that has to stand for the final test, not some giant from Silicon Valley who decides what is and isn't allowed. I therefore hope that you will be very strict in defending these constitutional articles at European level. After all, they are of the utmost importance in order to enable freedom of expression. Let us be honest. You are in favour of free speech and I am in favour of it. I hope that we can remain allies in this matter. However, I am concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u65	I also had two questions, Mr President, namely Nos. 55011998C and 55011999C. I understand, however, that you must leave. I am prepared to turn them into written questions if you can email me the answers without having to pass on a month.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u66	Madam President, we will now email them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic334x.u67	That's perfect. We are also perfect within the timing round with all questions and can finish our afternoon meeting.
