ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u1	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I am pleased to have another chance to exchange views with you. It is a regional issue. I could also submit the questions in writing, but the subject is very close to my heart. It is about the Hageland, the beautiful piece in the southeast of Flemish Brabant, against the language border, where I live and where I am mayor. You can see a piece of the Hageland in the background. It's a work of art from our congregation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u2	Mr President, there seems to be a problem for the interpreters...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u3	Mr Francken, could you use a headset for the interpreters?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u4	Mr President, no, unfortunately not. I think it's unlikely that a French-speaking person would be interested in the post offices in the Hageland. In any case, there is concern in our region about the post office network. What post offices will close in the Leuven arrondissement in the coming years and more specifically in the Hageland? What investments will bpost in buildings, equipment and staff in the coming years?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u5	Mr President, Mr Francken, with regard to your question concerning the supposed closure in the Leuven district, I can tell you that there are no closures of post offices in the Hageland and surrounding areas. However, in 2021 the post office Geetbets plans work. The post office in Geetbets is currently owned by bpost. Bpost intends to sell that post office and then stay at the current location through a sale-and-lease-back operation. In addition to traditional replacement investments, there will also be investment in digital tools in the coming years: IT equipment, programs, tablets, functionalities, etc. The aim is to support employees in the offices in providing quality services for customers. In addition, bpost continues to invest in its employees, including in the field of well-being and through additional training. Finally, following on from your question about the post offices, I would like to inform you that a number of places have recently been installed in that area. These include Herent, Winksele, Veltem, Beisem, Huldenberg, Neerijse, Ottenburg, Haasrode, Haacht, Aarschot, Drieslinter, Linter, Glabbeek and Landen. These installations are constantly monitored and, depending on the needs, additional such installations may follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u6	Mr President, Madam Vice-President, few decisions are as sensitive as closing down a post office or removing a mailbox in a village. I hope you know that, too. You're from East Flanders, but I don't know if you live in a city or a rural municipality. In any case, I come from a rural region and I can tell you that this is particularly sensitive. The post office is a presence of the government and a hold for many people. I think it's always wise to think very carefully about that. I'm not in favour of a maximal state, but I'm not in favour of a minimal state either. I'm in the middle, always downtown, aren't I? In that sense, I am pleased to hear that there are no closures planned and that Geetbets' post office remains open, albeit through a technical operation, and that parcel machines are being placed. Lubbeek wasn't there yet, but that would certainly be welcome with us. After all, there is a lot of work for the postmen, now that so much is being ordered online. In itself, that is good news. I hope you'll keep an eye on that for the next few months. In Lubbeek there was talk of the closure of the post office. That's caused a lot of tumult. If there are plans in that direction, I hope there will certainly be consultation with the mayors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u7	Madam Secretary, bpost is the first company to launch rapid tests on a large scale. A pilot project on the use of these tests is currently under way in three sorting centres. In the sorting centres of bpost it is not possible to work telework. How was the staff informed? Is the staff obliged to be tested? How long will this pilot project take? How many of the rapid tests used were positive? What will happen after this pilot project?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u8	Mr President, Minister, in the meantime the corona figures are favourable, which we are very pleased about. The vaccination is also going well. So these are all positive things. However, the question was tabled a while ago, at the start of the rapid tests. We had some questions about that. I think it's good to evaluate anyway. After all, we do not know what we are going to experience, so we will be able to learn a lot from it. How do you evaluate the procedure for the corona rapid test at the workplace? Are there any effective infections avoided by this? Are you going to continue with this? How do you see this evolving in the future? How many tests were finally carried out? What profile of employees has made the most use of this? What percentage of temporary workers made use of this? How's it going from now on? Will the procedure be used elsewhere, or will it stop here? The questions were submitted a long time ago, but I think it is good to see what you learned from that period.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u9	Mr President, Mrs Dewulf, Mrs Vindevoghel, at the request of the government, on 22 March 2021 bpost started the rapid testing in the sorting centres Brussels, Charleroi and Ghent. Those locations were chosen because there are a lot of people working together in corona time. During that period, the corona figures in those specific areas were highest. The pilot project referred to the necessary preventive measures already taken by Bpost to ensure the safety of workers and customers. This was a four-week pilot project which has long been completed. A total of 2,700 rapid tests were carried out on the three sites for four weeks. Participation in the rapid tests was voluntary. However, Bpost encouraged her staff to do so. The employees were informed by the line managers via a briefing and then received a time for the test. The results were examined by the occupational physician of the external prevention service. Bpost, who immediately started this project, let us know that they thought it was an interesting and valuable experience. The project allowed us to build up experience with the structural organisation of covid tests. There were also many data and insights about the necessary capacity of medically trained staff, the organisation, the cost, the motivation of people to participate and the lead times. However, for the specific business context of bpost, it was found that the positivity ratio, i.e. the number of positive tests, was very low per week, i.e. between 0.16 % and 0.46 % of the staff tested. So that's a lot lower than what we saw in the population at that time. On four weeks of testing, there were a total of nine positive tests. Many employees were satisfied that they could be tested, hence the large number of tests. However, Bpost noted that, given the low chances of infection and operational discomfort, the willingness of the staff to be tested decreased over the course of those four weeks, because it was heard that there were hardly any positive tests. Therefore, Bpost came to the conclusion that their prevention policy on corona is paying off, given the low number of positive cases. This prevention policy consists of a wide range of well-known measures: social distancing, disinfection, ventilation, mouth masks. Bpost has also established a specific coronacontact centre to answer questions from employees. There was also a biweekly consultation with the social partners. Quick tests have also been used since the summer of last year in cases of cluster outbreaks. So there was already the possibility to test many people very quickly. With all these insights, Bpost has already entered a further phase in the approach to the crisis. The campaign is now: back to normal, let you vaccinate. They're betting on that right now. The end of the crisis is thus also in sight for the employees of Bpost. So the fast-test campaign is complete. All data is delivered to Sciensano, the research institute that takes charge of the scientific processing and interpretation of that data. Since cluster contamination on the workplace is an important source of transmission of the virus, this project was an important part of Sciensano's broader analysis on this subject. I can add that the project is closed. We've learned a lot from it. At the moment there is no need to continue this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u10	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u11	Madam Secretary, thank you. It's good that this was tried out. After all, Bpost is a company where a lot of people work together. I am pleased that the evaluation is there, where we can learn things for the future. Let's hope people are all vaccinated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u12	Mr President, this is a question that I addressed to the Minister of Finance in March. The agreement to sell by bpost to BNP Paribas Fortis its 50% stake in bpost bank, the first case of privatisation under the Vivaldi government, raises questions. In addition to the fundamental criticisms that can be expressed about such privatization, the financial conditions of what appears to be a sale at a loss need to be questioned. The sale price – EUR 100 million for 50% of a network with EUR 10 billion in assets and more than 1.1 million customers – seems to be a very small amount. In addition, bpost and BNP Paribas Fortis agreed that this selling price corresponded to the net value of the transferred assets. This means that bpost accepts the principle of ceding its participation without realizing any surplus value. It is difficult to imagine that a purely private company makes such a free offer in a negotiation between two private companies. The disorder increases all the more when, as a result of the publication of the 2020 bpost accounts, it is found that in 2020 it takes a negative asset revaluation of EUR 141.6 million. Bpost's 2020 Annual Report states: "Assets held for sale are valued at the lowest amount between their net book value and the fair value minus selling costs. The best estimate per bpost of fair value minus selling costs is the amount bpost will receive from BNP Paribas Fortis for 50% of bpost bank shares that will amount to 100 million euros. As a result, a value reduction of EUR 141.6 million has been recorded." Thus, not only does bpost do no surplus value, but in addition, prior to the sale, it has already achieved a value reduction of 141 million euros. In the end, this is a privatisation resulting in a loss of EUR 141 million for a public or semi-public company. My questions are simple: how do you justify this sale at a loss? What will be its impact on the outcome of the SFPI? The latter question was specifically addressed to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u13	Madam Minister, we have been visited here by the ad interim CEO of Bpost, Mr Dirk Tirez. He gave us an explanation about bpost bank and its sale. He claimed that the knot had not yet been definitively cut, that it was not certain whether that sale would take place. We don't think it's a good thing that bpost bank comes in private hands. It is a bank that is very accessible to ordinary workers. For us, it's important that it stays in the hands of the government. Is your cabinet involved in that sale? Can your cabinet intervene, for example when formulating the conditions for sale? What are these conditions right? The following is what I have brought here before. BNP Paribas Fortis scores very badly in the honest banking hand. They score very badly on issues such as climate change, human rights and tax evasion. Is that the right partner to sell our bpost bank, knowing that 40% of the clientele of bpost bank is made up of the most vulnerable groups in our society? Is it a good idea to sell a profitable branch of bpost, namely the banking division, at too low a price, as my colleague has already explained? In my question I also referred to Connect 2026, but if I understood correctly, that would not be possible. My question was about the fact that the proceeds would be used for Connect 2026.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u14	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, Mrs Vindevoghel, thank you for your questions. I have already replied in this committee about the involvement of myself or my cabinet in the sale of bpost bank. That involvement wasn't there. At that time, I suggested that you engage in the debate, the added value of which I fully supported, with the management of bpost. In the meantime, you have indeed done so. With regard to the modalities of sales and the impact, I can only support the CEO's ad interim position at his hearing. Mr Tirez himself pointed out that 40% of bpost bank customers are indeed vulnerable customers for whom a guaranteed service is of great importance, including for bpost and society, I would add. In doing so, he undertook to ensure that bpost would guarantee several key elements in the sale of bpost bank and in the conclusion of the agreement with BNP Paribas Fortis. Among other things, financial services would be guaranteed to be affordable for the existing customers of bpost bank. For the customers themselves, nothing can change. Social continuity, i.e. employment for workers, is also guaranteed. Mr Tirez has assured us that bpost would not stop its shareholding in bpost bank at any price. Bpost would not sell its shares if those conditions were not met. So I trust that by reaching a final deal those conditions were met. I certainly endorse the view expressed by Mr Tirez here, that it is not only the holding of shares in bpost bank, or the conclusion of an agreement with GNP, which determines the financial services of bpost, but also the combination with the management agreement with the Belgian State for the financing of the public post office network. Where banking firms largely close their office network, bpost can remain a beacon of local, physical presence and can be provided via that office network banking services. I will return to this committee shortly to discuss with you the seventh management contract. Mr Van Hees, as regards your question on the justification of a sale at a loss, this is a particular accounting loss due to the accounting treatment of bpost's participation in bpost bank. Previously, this participation was included in the consolidated bpost figures in accordance with the equivalence method. In other words, this is bpost's share of bpost's own accounting funds under IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards), i.e. 50% of EUR 483 million, or EUR 241.6 million as at 31 December 2020. In view of the signing of the non-binding agreement with BNP Paribas Fortis in December last year, however, this participation was reclassified as assets held for sale (assets held for sale). These assets are recorded at the lowest amount between their book value and the fair value minus selling costs. The difference between valuation based on the equivalency method (EUR 241.6 million) and fair value (EUR 100 million) resulted in a special accounting loss of EUR 141.6 million. The above fair value is consistent with the market value of other European local banks as currently observed on the market. It is often expressed as a ratio between fair value and accounting capital under IFRS, and is therefore independent of the number of clients or assets under management. It should also be noted that this is a particular accounting loss without real impact. In terms of liquidity, this sale represents a cash flow of EUR 100 million for bpost. The sale of bpost bank has no direct impact on the results of the SFPI, since this is not a direct participation. The SFPI naturally has a direct interest in bpost, which means that the price of the bpost share and the bpost dividend have an impact on the result of the SFPI. The sale of bpost bank and the above particular accounting loss have no impact on bpost's ability to pay future dividends. The sale removes potential future bpost bank to bpost dividends, but these dividends were already zero in 2020 and would remain low, given the difficult banking environment. In addition, this sale results in a capital injection of EUR 100 million that bpost can use to accelerate the implementation of its strategy and further develop its core business. An exit of bpost bank capital protects bpost against future regulated capital increases, which also indirectly benefits bpost shareholders. For example, the bpost bank capital base has increased by 134 million euros since 2015, and bpost bank would need additional capital in the coming years to support its development. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that these rather financial elements will satisfy you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u15	Madam Minister, I thank you for your detailed answer, hoping that it satisfied the members who interviewed you. Mr. Van Hees, are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u16	Not really, Mr. President. Minister, saying that the government is not involved in the deal is in itself problematic. Privatization is taking place and the government says it is not concerned, it is a bpost decision and it is not its responsibility. I find this way of doing things a little easy! To return to the financial elements that were at the centre of my question, it is indeed an accounting loss. It's not money that came out of the crates. But it was money that could have come in more, if the accounting exercise had been different. What do you say? You say that, in the accounts, 50% of bpost bank shares were worth 241 million and that, at the time of the deal with BNP Paribas Fortis, they were worth only 100 million. As a result, $141 million was withdrawn at the original value. This is a questionable way of doing things. There were two values. Which one was the one? Obviously, it was decided that it was the least important value that was the right one, 100 million. The calculation was based on market value, ratios and formulae. But we know that if there were not a public actor, but two private actors, they would not have chosen the first formula. They would have looked at what the other party was capable of putting on, what she would like to put on. Of course, BNP Paribas Fortis is interested in having this 50% network. I am sure that the final amount would have been much higher than the present amount. Finally, it is, as always, the privatization of profits and the nationalization of losses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u17	Mr President, I cannot improve my colleague's reply. Madam Secretary, we are very sorry that bpost bank comes in private hands. I did indeed hear Mr Tirez at the hearing, but we still have to see what comes of all these promises. For example, you did not say anything about the aspect of BNP Paribas Fortis. You are an ecologist and yet the government goes into business with BNP Paribas Fortis, a bank that does not score well in that area. That is not a good signal to the citizens. We will continue to say that bpost bank must remain in government hands so that ordinary people can get there. It's gotta stay that way. In any case, we will keep a close eye on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u18	Madam Minister, a number of complaints were made to Bpost on the basis of facts that already date from last November. Letters were posted in Jurbise, but they never reached their destination. It's about birth cards and important letters for the health insurance fund and work. A hiker even found letters in the woods. Bpost started an investigation on that. What's the progress on this investigation? Apparently there would not be a distribution problem, but it would have to do with red boxes of bpost. What's with the red boxes? Does it often happen that correspondence does not reach its final destination?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u19	Thank you for these questions, Mrs Dewulf. Bpost has a strong suspicion that the incidents are the result of malpractice. These are incidents involving red mailboxes along the public road, the classic mailboxes used to deposit the post of bpost customers. Bpost has lodged a complaint with the competent authorities. Additional security measures were taken with regard to those particular red mailboxes. I can't go into what they are, you'll understand. Since those measures, no incidents have been reported. With regard to the distribution of mail in general, the Belex system "" is the system which independently measures the delivery of mail "" that problems of this kind rarely arise. I didn't get any exact numbers. The alleged incident is a misdemeanor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u20	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u21	Madam Minister, in view of the recent problems of Mrs Sihame El Kaouakibi's companies and their intertwining with politics, I would have liked to have received an answer to the following questions. Has there been cooperation with this company between today and the creation of WannaWork in the past by bpost and/or Proximus? How often and for what amounts did this happen? What was the experience of this collaboration? Why were contracts entered into or not terminated?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u22	Bpost has confirmed that there has indeed been a collaboration between bpost and WannaWork. The aim of this collaboration was to activate young candidates to a possible job at bpost. However, according to Bpost, this activation proved difficult to achieve, and cooperation was not continued. The funding for this cooperation in 2018 was 36,000 euros. I don't have any more information on this collaboration. Proximus gave me the answer that there was no collaboration with WannaWork.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u23	Madam Secretary, thank you for the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u24	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the annual report of the ombudsmen and mourning letters. The problem with the mourning letters has been dragging on for years. What solution will be offered so that letters of mourning are humiliated in time? My second question concerns the accessibility of customer service. I also raised the problem of the web site last year with Mr De Backer and the previous CEO, Mr Van Avermaet. When will the web site be made more accessible? When will there be more accessibility for customer service?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u25	Mr President, Madam Minister, for my question on customer service, I refer to what the ombudsmen have written about it. The ombudsdienst gets the necessary complaints about this. There were 3,586 applications. That's not nothing. Many customers feel that bpost is difficult to reach to formulate complaints, comments or comments about bpost services. Good complaint handling and accessibility for customers to formulate complaints is an essential task of a well-functioning, customer-friendly public body.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u26	Mr President, Mrs Dewulf, Mr Van den Bergh, in view of the references to the Ombudsman's latest report on the postal sector, I would like to refer to a passage from that report. On page 23 it says that according to the Ombudsman, 4,863 complaints were lodged in 2020 on the transport of packages, an increase of 10% compared to the previous year. There is, of course, a substantial growth in the transport of packages in the corona period. In fact, this has led to only a moderate increase in the number of requests for mediation from the ombuds service. That increase is there, but it is smaller than the huge increase in packages. The postal and courier companies have, and I quote the ombudsdienst: "exceptional work done in difficult circumstances." I think we can say that. It is true that the ombudsdienst admits that they could count on the understanding of senders and recipients, especially at the beginning of the lockdown. Everyone understood then that things were a little more difficult. I can only agree with the Ombudsman's analysis of the efforts that have been and are still being made and the positive results. We should also congratulate the people of Bpost on this. However, citizens are entitled to an effective customer service. As a public undertaking, bpost has an exemplary role in this. I therefore fully share your concern in this regard. Bpost informed me of recent efforts to improve the accessibility and quality of customer services. In order to increase telephone accessibility, Bpost has strengthened the teams in the contact centers since 2020. This resulted, for example, in a significantly increased rate of treatment of telephone questions. The first four months of this year the number of calls handled within the minute increased from 68 % last year to 83 % now. They are therefore treated more quickly compared to 2020. Treatment within two minutes has even increased from 79 % to 93 %. So that is really an improvement that we can see. A second gateway to customer service, as you also mentioned, Mrs Dewulf, is of course the website. The purpose of the redesign of the website is to facilitate the accessibility of the information and the way of the customer within the services. This redesign is based on an analysis of the main tasks required by customers. Customer feedback on the functioning of the website is monitored daily. This is done both quantitatively and qualitatively. For example, the users of the website are questioned and there is a team within bpost that is charged with responding to this feedback from users. In addition, bpost also regularly organises user testing, as it is called, to gain new insights about the website. According to Bpost, these measures are paying off. Customer satisfaction score was 12% higher in February of this year than in February of last year. During the same period, however remarkable, the number of visitors who found their way to the customer service environment quadrupled. Those are pretty good grades, aren't they? The number of visitors who called or sent out a form doubled. The time to provide a solution for each request per form was shortened from 1.2 to 0.7 days. The number of questions increases enormously, but also the satisfaction increases and actually the performance of the system. For customers who choose to contact bpost in writing, bpost recommends using online forms, because they can automatically be delivered to the right teams within bpost, as opposed to emails that are sent centrally and then must be read and forwarded. That's gonna take longer. The online form is most suitable for customers anyway. Bpost has informed me that it will continue to invest in customer accessibility, so that better answers can be given to users' questions. For example, they are going to use chatbots, soon also live chat, improve the search engine, make it easier to send forms, improve the customer environment, which is the environment in which we take care of the customer, so that they feel comfortable there, up to and including new functionalities. Whatsapp is not a used communication channel for the time being, but bpost does use Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and Instagram, which essentially have an informative purpose, rather than a support offer for customer questions. However, there is quite often communication with customers via e.g. Twitter. If they have comments, they are simply referred to the right channel. We can report that the percentage of customers' questions about the packages between 2018 and 2020 is almost halved, which nevertheless indicates a better service. Finally, based on customer feedback, bpost continues to develop and a live chat channel specifically for packages will be launched in the second quarter of this year. This offers customers an additional alternative to ask their questions. Mrs Dewulf, I come to your questions about the quality of the letter of mourning. Bpost assures me that these letters receive special attention throughout the processing process, precisely because of the special seal you have mentioned yourself. In addition, bpost also has regular contact with the funeral home sector and sensitizes her own employees to pay extra attention to letter post bearing a mourning stamp. Finally, BIPT controls, in accordance with postal legislation, internal and external measuring instruments used to measure the delivery times of shipments. If an audit carried out by the BIPT would conclude that the process of bpost is not satisfactory, it will ask bpost for an action plan which it will follow up on its implementation. The Belex figures show a measurement of the quality of the Prior Letter delivery. The delivery of letters of mourning belongs to this category. We monitor this and also during the covid pandemic, bpost has made every effort to deliver the mail without too many interruptions, including, of course, the letters of mourning. However, at certain times, particularly at the beginning of the crisis, the measures inevitably caused disruption of delivery. Over time, however, delivery has returned to normal. This will be monitored permanently. In response to your previous oral question on the letters of mourning, bpost assured me that the customer service also offers a doorway by telephone to people who wish to post letters of mourning, in addition to the electronic procedure provided for. The efforts undertaken and planned by Bpost, as in any other company, should contribute to the central objective of providing good service to any customer who has questions. Of course, the quality requirements for customer services set out in the management contract also play a role in this. However, the seventh management contract primarily involves the provision of services of general economic interest, such as the maintenance of an accessible post office network. The customer service of bpost applies to a wider range of products and services than services of general economic interest from the management contract. I will investigate which instrument is best suited to further improve customer service. Ideally, we should keep the whole postal sector in mind. In addition, there is also the universal service management agreement which will expire and be renewed in 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u27	Madam Secretary, it is good that bpost improves his customer service, because that was really necessary. The letters of mourning used to go along with the registered shipments. I don't understand why you can't do that anymore. Maybe that's what the management contract says. I've already asked several people. When the letters of mourning went with the registered shipments, they were always delivered on time, for they had priority. So I still don't understand why that's not allowed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u28	Madam Minister, it may indeed be said that in exceptional circumstances very exceptional work has been done. The service provided in the difficult pandemic conditions was good, and this should certainly be emphasised. However, some people find it very difficult to find their way to customer service to express their grievances. We must be aware of this, because not everyone can handle web forms, telephone referrals and so on. Bpost invests very heavily in her office network. That is why it is a pity that a telephone number is being referred to in the offices themselves. That office network could just be a good asset for good service and customer loyalty. I also believe that Twitter should not be a cross-reference channel. It could really be a dialogue channel, as even SNCB does. So I think there are still opportunities, but that does not mean that we should also be aware of the good results that have already been achieved. Anything can be better, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u29	The minister has to leave us at 4:15 p.m. I would remind you that colleagues can refer to the written text of their questions. It can save us time. Debates of the European Parliament 55016340C by Mrs Nathalie Dewulf has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u30	Mr President, Minister, glass fibre is the technology of the future. The fiber cables send data with the speed of light over long distances and therefore offer many advantages. It is an advanced technology that uses light to transport signals, allowing you to surf at a very high speed with a limited latency more stable. Fiber is extremely fast and has no loss of quality, regardless of the number of devices or persons that are online. That will sound like music to many homeworkers and studying children. At present, fiber is only accessible to the happy few in our country, while the situation in other countries is much better. In Belgium, less than 2% of families today have a high-speed fibre connection. In the Netherlands that is 40%. That's because the three major providers, Proximus, Telenet and Voo, have so much power that they can stay on the brake. Meanwhile, our Internet subscriptions have been among the most expensive in Europe for years. How many families are already connected to the Proximus fibre network today? How many would that be by 2025? How many companies and hospitals are connected to it? What criteria does Proximus apply for the roll-out of the glass fibre network? Does the income of families play a role in this? How much does Proximus invest annually in the roll-out of these fibre networks? What influence has the corona crisis had on this further rollout?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u31	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, glass fibre is available today for more than 500,000 households and companies in our country. That amounts to just over 8% coverage. Proximus doubles the pace almost every year. By 2020, 150,000 additional households and businesses will be involved, 300,000 in 2021 and 600,000 in the following years. By 2025, Proximus aims to reach 3.3 million fiber-optic households, which is 55% coverage. By 2028, this should be 4.2 million households and businesses, which amounts to 70%. Proximus has already expressed that ambition a few times. At the end of 2020, Proximus counted 65,000 consumers who had subscribed to fiber. All customers of other operators can be connected at any time. Twenty-eight alternative operators have already done so, because it is an open network, a network that can be used by others. Proximus had originally started to develop fiber in companies at the request of a specific company. That was the so-called Fibre-to-the-Business programme (FTTB). Thanks to this programme, companies in industrial zones already have a fibre-optic connectivity of 70%. In addition to these specific business-to-business programmes, Proximus will cover companies and public sites in the city centres when rolling out glass fibres for households. Hospitals are almost all connected to fiber today via various networks: Proximus, Telenet, Belnet, Eurofiber. The challenge lies today in the equipment of other healthcare institutions such as rest homes, radiology centers, home doctoring practices. The criteria used to determine the roll-out priority are the population density, roll-out costs, the total market potential and the quality of the copper network already in place, including the speed currently available to copper customers. These are typical criteria that all operators use to decide where to roll out fiber priority. The average household income has no influence at all on the roll-out of fiber. Proximus' strategy is to leave no one behind. That sounds nice, but it would also not be economically feasible for them to use this as a criterion. The total investment is estimated at 5 billion euros, via Proximus' standalone roll-out, but also the joint venture roll-out. On average, this means an investment of between 400 and 500 million euros each year for fiber. This only covers the costs of bringing the fibre to the door of the customers. Of course, there are additional costs, such as termination, activation, IT development and so on, because the fiber itself is just a carrier of a signal. The corona crisis has not had a negative impact at this time, even now, not on the rate of Proximus rollout. There are some minor problems, such as teams that have to quarantine or problems getting access to certain buildings, but Proximus tells us that we can absolutely believe that it is entirely on track.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u32	Madam Secretary, Corona has, of course, shown how important it is for everyone to have access to the Internet. For us, that must be a basic right for everyone. We continue to work for this. We would not like Proximus to work at two speeds, one without access and the other without access. I welcome the progress and it is good if it goes on like this, but if population density is a criterion, people in rural areas, where few people live, risk waiting longer. We believe that this is a basic right for everyone. We are on the right track, but I hope that everyone will have access as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u33	Mr President, since you have asked to refer as far as possible to the questions submitted in writing and the Minister can only stay for an hour and a half, I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u34	Mr President, I will now put this question to you, but I turn the last three questions into written questions. Madam Minister, in the context of the infamous political appointments, it was recently decided to appoint Mr Ibrahim Ouassari, co-founder of the IT company Urban Tech and of MolenGeek, to the board of directors of Proximus. The man was apparently nominated by Mr. Bouchez of the MR. If members of the blue factory appoint experts with the word "urban" in the name of the company, this may give rise to suspicion. That is no different in this case. The company in Molenbeek offers technology training and is an important local, socio-economic player. I'll talk about that later. Mr Ouassari's CV is somewhat special, but apart from that, there are a number of issues that raise questions in the choice of Mr Ouassari for this top position. The ties between MolenGeek and politics have never been far away, but also the business links with Proximus were and/or are not. For example, the partnership between Proximus and MolenGeek that was signed in November 2019 was quite far-reaching. In addition, various statements by Mr Ouassari in the press or the media in general raise questions. Madam Secretary, what business links is Proximus currently maintaining with MolenGeek? Are you aware of the fact that the partnership between MolenGeek and Proximus raises mistrust in various circles, including among the population? If so, will you try to refute that as a minister? Are you also aware that certain statements by Mr Ouassari in the press and the media raise mistrust of that same public opinion and of a large number of inhabitants of this country, not least the Flemish part of it? If so, will you, as the competent minister, try to refute this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u35	Mr President, Mr Freilich, Mr De Spiegeleer, MolenGeek and the Proximus Foundation entered into a partnership in 2019 aimed at improving employment, stimulating entrepreneurship and creating new opportunities for digital talents. This cooperation is divided into several aspects: supply of second-hand computers and telecom equipment, knowledge exchange, training, internships, consultancy and hackathons. For example, MolenGeek students will have the opportunity to develop IOT solutions, i.e. solutions for the internet or things, thanks to sensors that were delivered to them and the access they get to interfaces and platforms of Proximus, around IOT and data analytics. Proximus and MolenGeek also work together in the field of human resources. Special training courses, such as cybersecurity or wireless technologies, are offered to students. Internships are also made available. This cooperation will continue and, because of its social and educational character, does not in itself create a conflict of interest. Mr Ouassari's position does not constitute a general incompatibility within the meaning of Article 17 of the Proximus Statute. It is also interesting to take a look at what the Code of Companies and Associations determines in relation to conflicts of interest in relation to directors. Article 7/96, which states that where a director has a direct or indirect interest in property which is contrary to the interests of the company, following a decision or operation falling within the competence of the Management Board, provision shall be made for a procedure in the event of such a situation, whereby the driver in question must inform the other directors and abstain from the debate and vote on this item on the agenda. This shall also be recorded in the minutes of the Management Board and in the annual report of that year. I am told that this situation does not apply here. The partnership between Proximus and MolenGeek already exists today and does not require any further intervention from the board of directors of Proximus. Secondly, if decisions are still needed at Proximus level in connection with the cooperation with MolenGeek, they will not be eligible to be submitted to the board of directors, given their limited value. There is therefore, by definition, no question of a decision or an operation falling within the competence of the Management Board, as it is mentioned in the article, so that there can actually be no potential conflict of interest under Mr Ouassari. However, if this proves to be the case, the Proximus board must, as always, respect and follow the legal procedures for this. As for your last question about MolenGeek and Mr Ouassari, Mr De Spiegeleer, it is difficult to answer the question about certain statements that raise mistrust. After all, that is rather vague. I can only say that, as far as I am concerned, it goes without saying that every driver of Proximus must comply with the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u36	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u37	Madam Secretary, you are not fully successful in removing the mistrust. You will no doubt know that my party is a rabid opponent of political appointments. The fact that the last appointment carousel has been rather hallucinating is a bit in line with the formation of the government itself, but that will not be a coincidence. In connection with the appointment of Mr Ouassari, you refer to certain articles and I trust you to do so, but in the perception, the appointment is a low point in terms of trust. Mr Ouassari has set up a small company which is richly supported by Proximus, a federal public body, which is already somewhat remarkable. Apparently, he did so well with those resources, and I would like that man to be brought in to that same company, for sure, and then through the big gate. I don't have to explain to you that that raises questions for a lot of people. There are some statements in the press that you say are vague and not criminal. I didn't say he made any criminal statements either. However, I would like to pick out a number of things. The first thought doesn't come from the press. His company MolenGeek has a website that is monolingual in French. That is in Molenbeek, where language legislation is in force. The fact that someone with a small company in Molenbeek, which is subsidised by Proximus, succeeds in a top position and fails to organise the website in the two country languages is already remarkable. Then I come to one of the remarkable quotes of the man. In Le Soir he says he loves this country, because it is a country with two cultures where everyone pays the same taxes. I would suggest that future political appointments should also be based on the country's basic knowledge, for example at the level of the third secondary level. It is therefore possible to ask the person concerned to at least respect the language of the majority of this country. This is not only a matter of elementary courtesy, but is also just the logic itself. So that man, who holds an important position in a federal state, does not know at all the country he will serve in that federal state. Again, the way he got there and was funded is also vengeful. I find the sum of all these things questionable, at least, but it may still be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u38	Question No 55016754C by Mr Arens has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u39	Madam Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u40	Mr President, it seems that a number of people are experiencing problems with the new function of Sign For Me. Even if they did not register or use it, the mailman appears to have signed documents for them. I have received several e-mails from concerned citizens who tell me that the system is not working properly. Despite the fact that they complained about this, the problems persist. Is the Minister aware of the problem? What is being done about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u41	Because of a more positive customer experience both the transmitter and the receiver, bpost improves the paper registered shipments by supplementing them with hybrid applications, such as Sign For Me or QuickStamp. Sign For Me is a new free service to activate in a post office or postpoint of bpost, whereby the private customer gives a mandate to place registered shipments directly in the mailbox to bpost at his request and after identification through the identity card, without asking for a signature. A registered shipment delivered under the Sign For Me procedure has the same legal value as a registered shipment following the normal process. The sender will be given the same legal protection. Sign For Me aims to improve the customer experience of the recipient of a registered shipment by facilitating its receipt. Its development started before the COOVID-19 crisis and was not motivated by the distance rules to prevent contamination. Sign For Me covers most registered shipments, except registered shipments with a receipt, registered shipments from abroad for which import costs are to be paid, registered shipments with a customised insurance, because they are a valuable shipment, registered shipments in the framework of elections or registered shipments that cannot be deposited in the mailbox because they are too large or because the mailbox is not compliant, open or full. In those cases, the mailman should ask for an autograph. Bpost intends to promote this service to the general public as soon as it is available in the entire country. This is normally the case by the end of July 2021. The recipient of a registered shipment using Sign for Me will receive an e-mail notification when the mailman has deposited the registered shipment on the bus. The sender can follow through track and trace. When a Sign for Me mandate applies, the postman is explicitly informed that the registered shipment must be deposited on the mandate provider's bus. For the further roll-out of Sign for Me, training and refreshments are provided with procedures. Bpost has still not received any complaints about the Sign for Me service. The company has no knowledge of registered shipments for which a Sign for Me mandate existed that were deposited in a mailbox other than that of the recipient. With the QuickStamp service, small businesses can send registered shipments by placing them directly in a red mailbox without having to go to an office or a postpoint. For electronic registered shipments, bpost closely follows market developments and the evolution of customer expectations. After all, that is a domain in full development.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u42	I'm glad bpost is working on electronic shipments. That's the future, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u43	The theory is of course beautiful, but the practice according to the e-mails I received shows that there are still problems. I will ask those who have contacted me whether or not they have made a complaint to Bpost or to the Ombudsman. I suppose that's what they do before contacting a Member of Parliament. Hopefully the system will be properly rolled out. In any case, bpost must also do and check that staff do not abuse the system by quickly depositing a number of letters in the mailbox. We've seen something similar in the delivery of packages. I speak from experience. I live in an apartment building and when I left it I found a box with my name on it. No one rang the doorbell. It happens often that a postman doesn't ring the bell or ring the bell, but leaves immediately, without waiting for a reaction. I understand that the postmen are under time pressure, but we still need to introduce quality control. Same goes for Sign For Me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u44	Mrs Dewulf, you will understand that it is difficult for me to comment on market rumors spread in the press. This is even more true in the case of subsidiaries of a public undertaking operating in a highly competitive market. Therefore, I will have to limit my answer to the fact that bpost has to manage its assets in a responsible manner. To this end, it must continuously analyse the performance of its assets and contribute to the group's strategy. Bpost has growth ambitions. That's okay, too. She takes the necessary measures to bring her projects to a successful conclusion, so Bpost assures me. However, they choose not to report staff numbers for Ubiway Retail in their annual report. They're free to do that, too. So there's not much I can say about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u45	Thank you for your answer. We'll follow up on the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u46	Mr President, Minister, we are getting more and more reports from Flemings from the edge of Brussels who are customers at Proximus and who are increasingly getting technicians who do not speak Dutch. That is why I would have liked to have answered the following questions. Are you aware of the problem? How come there are technicians who do not know Dutch and are still sent to the Dutch language area in our country? Do you think that the knowledge of Dutch should not be required to work in a public undertaking? Are you planning on doing something about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u47	Mr President, Mr Freilich, first of all, like you, I am sensitive to the law on respect for language, but I also understand the difficulties in Proximus' excessively strict application of that legislation. Since 1999, the Standing Committee on Linguistic Supervision has itself recognised on several occasions that Article 36 of the Law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises is the article which makes the coordinated laws on the use of languages in administrative matters generally applicable to an autonomous public undertaking subject to competition, such as Proximus.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In its opinion No 29/291, the Standing Committee on Linguistic Monitoring recommended the establishment of a minimum language regime that is more precise and better adapted to the operating conditions of the autonomous enterprises. For Proximus in particular, excessively strict language rules are a real obstacle to the need for flexibility and response capacity required by the new environment of the electronic communications market and the intensity of competition that characterises this market. Having said that, since your question does not provide details of the facts mentioned, I cannot give a precise answer on the precise issue, but I can tell you that after my contacts with Proximus, I am confident that the company does not intend to violate the legislation and even less to harm the users of its own services. What Proximus tells me is that it is working at all times and in all forms of communication to comply with the coordinated laws on the use of language in administrative matters with regard to the public. Apart from its strict legal obligations, Proximus is also fully aware that communicating with its customers in the language chosen by them is an essential element for improving its brand image and providing good customer service. This is of course very important in a very competitive market environment. As regards visits to customers, Proximus may in certain cases have no choice but to send technical teams composed according to the availability of the technicians, regardless of their language, and this in the interests of the customers, to serve and assist them as quickly and as effectively as possible. However, this type of case is an exception. The alternative in these cases would be to postpone the customer's service because there is no staff available to meet the language requirements at the time of application. You will agree with me that this might not be the right choice. In conclusion, I believe that Proximus does everything in its power to approach its customers in the language of their choice, but above all it puts the interests of the customer first, namely the speed and quality of service. Cases such as those you mentioned should therefore really be included in the exceptions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u48	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I have heard you say that too strict an obstacle is not supposed to form a barrier. I find Proximus' answer very diplomatic. It is true, of course, that if there is a malfunction, we must ensure that it is remedied as quickly as possible. I just hope that the language problem only occurs exceptionally, and that it does not occur more frequently. I also know that many people are indulgent, but there are a number of people who make it a point to be helped in the language of the country in which they express themselves. We will certainly follow up on this in the future. I hope that no further questions will be asked about this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u49	Mr President, Minister, today there are about 110,000 IGO beneficiaries in our country. A new verification procedure of the residence condition came into force in 2019. Since then, people who receive an IGO benefit can have control at the door on any day to check whether they actually live in Belgium. Only after permission will these people be allowed to stay abroad for a maximum of 29 days. Anyone who misses a check three times could lose his IGO. The controls are carried out by postmen, but have been suspended today due to the corona crisis. Evaluations of this new procedure by the Federal Pension Service show that only 0.95% of IGA beneficiaries were subject to well-founded sanctions. In absolute figures, there are 538 cases out of a total of 56,712 controls. It is clear that these controls do not take into account the reality on the ground. A few weeks ago, therefore, more than 40 civil society organisations raised the alarm. Both the procedure and the general conditions of the IGO are questioned and criticised. The letter was co-signed by the trade unions of bpost. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has always opposed these controls. In the coalition agreement we read the ambition to evaluate the monitoring of compliance with the residence condition for the IGO beneficiaries in order to ensure their proportionality. We have already heard from Minister Lalieux that she wants to do an effective job of this. What will you do with the important signal given with this letter, particularly by the bpost trade unions, who co-signed the letter? What do you think of the current procedure and the proposals for adaptation? Do you think it would be appropriate for the postmen to be involved today in carrying out the checks under the IGO control procedure? What agreements were made in the contract between Bpost and the Federal Pension Service? What adjustments do you see possible and at what time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u50	I myself have never been very much in favour of this task for the postmen. I have also said here in the past that we should perhaps seek a more positive interpretation of the social role of the postman. With the seventh management contract, we will also try to anchor that positive role. There are already some projects between OCMW's and bpost where the mailman visits people who are less mobile, for a conversation for example. We will be able to debate this again in the Chamber next week. I am clear about the income guarantee for the elderly (IGO). I believe that excessive control of people in vulnerable situations is based on a negative human image and is not the right way forward for me as a human being and a green politician. As the poverty, human rights, elderly and patient organisations and trade unions rightly point out in their letter, such a system creates a lot of fear and uncertainty among the IGO right-holders. It is a powerful signal that the bpost unions also signed the letter. However, since it is a contract between Bpost and the Federal Pension Service, I am not empowered to intervene in this matter under the rules of sound administration as Minister of Public Enterprises. Bpost did let me know that she was open to discussing the contract with the pension service. Given the limited added value with regard to the fraud detected, given my objections, which I have just mentioned, and the relatively limited financial impact for bpost, that service may be reformed for me in order to make the control procedure more humane and proportionate. Mrs Lalieux has already announced such reforms. The adjustments should be made in consultation between the pension service and bpost. Mr Delizée, it is true that the execution of this public procurement has been interrupted since the start of the health crisis. The Federal Pension Service does not have to pay for the uncarried mission and therefore there is no billing. bpost and the SFP are in close contact and cooperate with confidence in this public procurement. As I said, it is premature to anticipate the follow-up that will be given to the implementation of this contract between the two partners. For reasons of commercial confidentiality, prices are not disclosed, even if the terms and conditions are provided for in the contract. As to the opinion of the Data Protection Authority (PAD), the SFP officially replied to the ODA by stating that, on the basis of the external legal analysis, it is demonstrated that both the SFP and bpost are in compliance with the obligations arising from the GDPR with regard to the control of the actual residence in Belgium of the GRAPA beneficiaries in the context of the procedures entrusted to bpost – in particular the handing over of a document and the deposit in the mailbox after three unsuccessful passages – but not in the context of a delegation of the competence of the control to bpost.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u51	Madam Secretary, the way in which you are expressing your opinion on the control procedures as they took place until before the corona crisis is a strong signal. I share the view that such control is based on a negative human image. The figures show that one shoots a mosquito with an elephant. Moreover, these procedures are the most important - a lot of fear and uncertainty. I have said so many times in parliamentary debates that those concerned are no longer able to go to the market or even dare to take a shower for fear of missing the call from the postman. What are we doing? Madam Minister, I naturally understand the limitations of your competence and welcome the message from Bpost to you that the postal company is open to discussing the contract with the Federal Pension Service. It also implements a part of the coalition agreement to monitor the proportionality of these control procedures and to make them a lot more humane. We are therefore very interested in the outcome of the negotiations between Bpost and the Federal Pension Service. We certainly welcome the fact that we can look forward to more humane, fairer and fairer control procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answer. As far as the analysis of the procedure is concerned, I agree with my colleague, who is talking about an elephant to crush a fly. In French, the formula used is "take a bazooka to kill a fly", but we remain in the same register. I take note of your answers. Legally, the debate is not yet closed. Everyone defends their point of view. We will therefore put these answers into the current discussion, in the hope that it will evolve very soon. Next week, we will be pleased to discuss the seventh management contract with you. This will be an important moment, given the powers of our committee. So we'll be happy to meet you next Tuesday to talk about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u53	Question No 55018710C by Mr Freilich is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u54	Madam Minister, Voeren has had a problem with telecommunications services in a number of its municipalities for years. Where other providers provide a decent service, Proximus unfortunately leaves the service to be desired. That has been described in detail in my question, and I will not read it all. I shall confine myself to my two specific questions. Madam Secretary, how will you ensure that these concerns receive the full attention of Proximus? What solutions do you see to place the improvement of the network in Enter higher on the operational planning of Proximus?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u55	Thank you, Mr Raskin, for your questions. I have taken note of your question on fixed and mobile broadband coverage in the Voeren region. I've asked Proximus about that. Proximus tells me that the company attaches great importance to the roll-out of broadband. As a result, it can meet the expectations of its customers and offer efficient services. In this context, it invests significantly in glass fibre, which we have just mentioned, VDSL or alternative technologies for the areas in which the population lives more widely, for example a combination of a fixed and mobile network. In certain circumstances, however, it is unfortunately not possible to achieve the maximum coverage and performance targets from the customer's point of view, regardless of the technologies used. For the fixed network it is about the distance of the customers to the equipment or the quality of the internal wiring or wifi in the homes. The mobile network is concerned with geographical and/or topological conditions. For example, forested and hilly areas can prevent the propagation of a signal. Proximus does not publish detailed data on its investments per municipality. In practice, it communicates broadband coverage to the municipalities and provinces with which meetings are organised. The technological and economic criteria used for the deployment of its network shall be applied uniformly throughout the national territory. All so-called white zones are approached in the same way, regardless of their location. Having said that, I can tell you that Proximus is currently studying the possibilities in the villages mentioned in your question. With regard to the mobile network, coverage should improve, in particular by the modernisation of the Proximus network, by the end of 2021. For the fixed network, Proximus is currently studying the possibilities of making additional investments in Veurs in the medium term. That was the information Proximus gave me in response to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u56	Madam Minister, thank you for your attention to the problem that has existed for a long time. The mayor of Voeren has already been in contact with Proximus and with you, as I understand. I also take note of your explanation of a number of technical and topological circumstances which make this difficult. I understand that, but at the same time it is inconceivable in 2021 that there are still submunicipalities in this country without cell phone coverage and households without a good, stable internet connection. People pay normal rates, so that service should be better, especially in corona times with telework, which will be a keeper. I assume you agree, Madam Minister, and hope that you and the company will take action to address this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u57	Madam Secretary, recently mentioned an article that every postman has to bring three to five packages a day. I thought that was a weird article. After all, a mailman must automatically take those packages with him on his rounds. For each mailman, it's calculated how many packages he has to bring. What happens if the mailman has too many packages? Why are the Chinese packages not included in the maximum number? How many packages are processed a day?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u58	Mrs Dewulf, thank you for your questions. First of all, what happens if there are more packages than is due for the rounds of the postmen? If the volume of packages to be begged at a given time is greater than the average number, that additional volume will be taken over by a fellow postman, as the distribution is in principle organised on this average number. If that becomes structural and there are too many packages each time, a backup round with additional colleagues will be organised. As far as the packages from China are concerned, there are different flows, for example those with track and trace, and those without track and trace. In view of the process of delivery and the international agreements on delivery, Chinese packages remain separate from domestic packages in terms of volume. However, the volumes of Chinese parcels are indeed part of the potential brought to the distribution by postmen. To answer your last question, in April 2021 bpost processed the latest figures we have on average 405,000 packets a day in its distribution network.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u59	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u60	Mr President, Minister, the same question is also being put to Minister Dermagne today. Both PostNL and GLS are prosecuted by the correctional court for the social fraud they would commit in a structural manner. There are long working days and the non-respect of the covid measures. Workers are underpaid or work in false self-employment. Each check at the PostNL and GLS depots reveals numerous infringements. This seems to indicate structural fraud. In addition, PostNL was already convicted of false self-employment in the Netherlands. All this is likely to lead to market-distorting and unfair competition and under-financing of our social security, which is now under more pressure than ever before. It's also an ethical issue. Do we want a poor working class in our society? There is actually no reason why PostNL and GLS should not work with permanent employees, as bpost does. The Labour Auditorate has invited bpost as a potentially disadvantaged party for questioning. Madam Secretary, what do you think of these facts? Are you surprised that companies like PostNL and GLS are involved in fraud cases? The Labour Auditorate invites bpost for a conversation as a potentially disadvantaged party. Has that conversation taken place in the meantime? What was the conclusion of this dialogue? How much damage could bpost be caused by these fraudulent practices of competition? Will that damage be budgeted at all? Will legal action be taken from bpost because of distortions of competition vis-à-vis PostNL and GLS?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u61	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, you will understand that I cannot comment on this particular case, nor on the companies involved. Bpost tells me he hasn't been heard in this case and he hasn't had access to the criminal record yet. Having taken note of the file, the company will examine, where appropriate, what measures it may have to take to defend its interests. More generally, I can say that tough competition in the parcel market unfortunately puts pressure on social standards. That is a real problem that needs to be addressed because we must avoid a race to the bottom leading to so-called poor workers, often low-skilled workers, by the way. The government agreement states that measures will be taken to create a level playing field between domestic and foreign companies, with equal controls and enforcement of Belgian legislation. Specific reference is made here to the e-commerce sector. Bpost offers sustainable contracts and should therefore not be the victim of unfair competition. The problem of a level playing field for parcel delivery is only partly within my competence. Consultations are taking place with the other competent colleagues. Within my powers, I am also investigating whether an amendment to the Postal Act could help in this. The BIPT is currently investigating this. The consultations with my colleagues are continuing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u62	Madam Minister, we will therefore also ask Minister Dermagne this question. It's a good thing the people at bpost have a fixed contract, but I'm a lot worried. You said yourself that the competition is tough. I went to Lot this morning where the postmen have been taking action since yesterday. I listened to them and I didn't know what I heard. The working conditions of the postal workers there are an average working time of 10 to 12 hours a day. This is about the average. A man told me he started at 5:00 in the morning and didn't do it until 5:00 in the evening. He's systematically on a lot of overtime. A 29-year-old employee told me he could buy a house with all the free overtime he worked. We must make sure that bpost does not go the same way, Madam Secretary. Those people tell me it's almost slavery. Slavery is making people work without paying them. Although they do not get beaten, they are not paid for the work they do. You mentioned the packages earlier. Those people sometimes have to hand out up to 100 packs a day. It's a very difficult situation. One is, of course, in a vicious circle, because people are no longer found. After all, they do not want to start if their overtime is not paid. Bpost, Madam Minister, also calls for a solution to be found to the working conditions which they now have to undergo. I fear that actions will not be limited to fate alone. I heard from a colleague, secretary of the union, that the situation is also very bad in other places. Let's not slip into situations like PostNL and GLS.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u63	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr De Spiegeleer's 55017921, 55017923 and 55017924 have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u64	Madam Minister, at the end of this year, SNCB will close its counters in 44 stations. Are you aware of any calls between Bpost and SNCB? If so, do you have any further information? In how many municipalities and in which municipalities would bpost cooperate with SNCB? What possible activities does bpost plant in the concerned SNCB stations? Will parcel services be organised in the stations? Will additional staff be required to do so? Does this mean for the staff of bpost weekend work or work on Sundays and holidays?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u65	Mrs Dewulf, bpost was indeed contacted by SNCB to investigate possible cooperation. Bpost informed me that this question was approached with an open mind. We have looked at all the possibilities that could lead to a positive solution. They've analyzed two slopes. Firstly, a possible cooperation for the installation of post offices at certain stations. Secondly, the possibility of selling tickets in existing post offices. Seven stations in Flanders and Wallonia were investigated for the first piste of the installation of post offices in stations.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Those investigations were carried out by the operational teams of bpost on the basis of three objective parameters: feasibility, commercial aspect and financial data. Bpost informs me that the analysis for each of these stations has unfortunately been negative for one or more of these basic parameters. The first piste was taken off the table with that. For the second track, the sale of SNCB's tickets in post offices....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, the financial arrangements for such cooperation will still have to be worked out by both companies if SNCB also wishes to achieve this. So Bpost is open to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u66	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u67	Mr President, Minister, the government agreement provides for a 55% reduction in greenhouse gases for 2030 and climate neutrality for 2050. The climate component of the Connect plan today does not meet these ambitions. The Connect plan precedes, of course, the government agreement. The hearing of the Bpost CEO in committee did not allow the subject to be further explored in order to examine whether the ambitions and the concrete actions that might result from them allowed bpost to meet these strong environmental ambitions of the federal government. Minister, while the bpost management contract will soon be presented to Parliament, my questions are: how can these concrete climate goals be and will they be formalized with bpost? What actions will be implemented according to these objectives and according to what timetable? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u68	Mr President, Mr Parent, I thank you for these questions, which I think are very important, as you will know. bpost will establish and sign a new and ambitious charter of societal responsibility with the state on the same day as the signing of the seventh management contract. In the negotiations on the seventh management contract, which I will be presenting in committee shortly, we want to provide for a clause on this point. This charter will address climate challenges in particular. In short, there will be a fairly elaborate charter, with many elements, and a reference to that charter in the management contract. Discussions on the charter are still ongoing. I can already point out to you that my ambition is that, thanks to this charter, bpost can indeed play a pioneering role in economic, social and environmental sustainability for other public enterprises, public bodies and companies in the sector. I am therefore convinced that we share the same ambition with regard to the greening of our public enterprises. I would be happy to inform you shortly about the negotiations on the Charter in question, which are currently under way, and to which, as I understand it, we will return next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u69	Minister, I confirm that we have an appointment next Tuesday to talk about the seventh bpost management contract. I said earlier that it was a very important exchange.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u70	Madam Minister, thank you for the first indications. You have heard that there was a shared interest on my part and on the part of Parliament in these bpost climate ambitions. It's really an important signal that these two documents. The management contract is good. It is a very important, if not the most important, roadmap that binds bpost and the state for the years to come. It is important that both documents be signed and concluded at the same time. This is really the signal that bpost must be exemplary in terms of its social but also environmental objectives and that both are part of a whole. It is interesting that the management contract refers to this charter and that both documents are linked. We will be attentive to the charter, which, as you have said, will define actions because we need commitments but also concrete actions and we know that bpost has a fundamental role in terms of what it represents and its logistics activities in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u71	Question No 55018683C by Mrs Verhaert is turned into a written question, and I would point out that the same is true of Question No 55018710C by Mr Michael Freilich, which is on the last point of our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u72	Minister, I can make a direct link to my previous reply, where I referred to concrete action. This is one, and in any case an interesting track, since these are indeed bicycle deliveries which, beyond bpost, are choices of mode of transport that flourish throughout the country. Last mile delivery is obviously a very important issue. The Ecolo-Groen group is delighted that this can be created and multiplied, but bpost has taken the train in motion as well. I wanted to come back to a news event: bpost has recently released frozen products to horeca establishments in the city of Ghent, using cargo bikes. With this new service, bpost is approaching the concept of establishing ecozones in the city centres, like Malines, whose project began several months ago. Minister, who is behind this bike delivery area project? What are the organizational arrangements? Have you developed this project in collaboration with local actors and, if so, what are they? has he proposed extending this type of service to other places in Belgium? Finally, are other ecozone projects underway? If so, which ones and according to what timetable?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u73	Mr Parent, as you mentioned, bpost launched, in the middle of last year, in Malines, a pilot project of its concept of urban delivery, sustainable, called "ecozone". This concept brings together various aspects aimed at reducing the impact and nuisances of logistics activities in urban areas. It aims to bring about a lasting change in behaviour of all actors (towns, businesses, citizens and bpost). It also combines various actions: firstly, to stimulate delivery at pick-up points and to consolidate deliveries to reduce traffic in the city; secondly, to introduce innovative and non-CO2-emitting means of transport, such as cargo bicycle trailers and electric vehicles, to tackle climate challenges and improve air quality; thirdly, to involve the local socio-economic fabric in order to promote the local and circular economy. The test project in Ghent to which you referred was launched at the initiative of the company Sligro and bpost. bpost ensures the delivery of the last kilometer to Sligro customers who are mainly Horeca professionals. These emission-free deliveries are made using cargo bikes equipped with innovative and sustainable refrigeration technology since this is the Horeca. At this stage, there is not yet a definitive schedule for the implementation of new ecozones. However, contacts have been made with many cities, including Ghent. This test is carried out in full collaboration with the Gypsy headquarters of the company Sligro. Various local companies from the Gantoese Horeca are also involved and test this new method of delivery. Ecozone projects and especially the delivery of fresh and frozen products are, at this stage, pilot projects (or tests) on the basis of which bpost refines its sustainable delivery strategy to be extended in the future. Based on their assessment, bpost will establish a deployment schedule in other cities across the country, with the ambition to multiply these tests again this year, which I fully support. It should be noted that, in the context of the seventh management contract, which is currently under discussion and which we will be discussing next week in this committee, I have obtained from bpost the commitment to sign a charter - which I also mentioned - of ambitious societal responsibility with the Belgian State at the same time as the management contract. Carbon neutral distribution in the country's major cities will be one of the key elements of this charter. We'll probably get back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u74	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic507x.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that the issues on the agenda have been exhausted. Madam Minister, thank you for your time and we will meet again next Tuesday for an important debate.
