ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u1	For our topical debate on the omikron variant we have a guest speaker. Thank you for being here, Mr Van Gucht. The Minister is, of course, somewhat delayed. So we're gonna have to wait for him to show up. At that time, everyone will be able to ask their questions in order of submission, as mentioned on the agenda. Members who have tabled two questions will have a double speaking time: 4 instead of 2 minutes. If they do not have any questions, they can register, if they so wish, either for questions or for a reply. If that is the case for anyone, they can register with me already now. Then I take note of that. If Mr Van Gucht agrees, he can start his presentation and, if necessary, ask a few questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u2	Minister Vandenbroucke asked me yesterday to prepare a presentation specifically around the situation with the omikron variant. It's a new variant that we've only just gotten to know and, in my opinion, we know more or less about. We know a number of things for sure, and I made a list of them. I'll go over them briefly. First of all, the new variant has remarkably many mutations. On the left side of the slide you will see the spine protein of the coronavirus. On the left is the delta virus, on the right is the omikron virus. The red spheres you see are all mutated places. It is striking that the omikron variant has much more mutations than the delta variant, for example. The coronavirus has a genetic code of about 30,000 letters or nucleotides. At delta, 27 have changed compared to the original Chinese virus. In itself that is not so much, it is still only a limited number of mutations. With Omikron, there are 72, almost 3 times as many. The totality of that genetic code remains relatively limited. I would like to emphasise that. We are still talking about the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It's not a completely new virus. It is still the coronavirus, but it is a separate branch of the family tree. You can see that on the right figure. At the bottom right are all the old variants, clustered, which are a bit alike. The branch that goes up is the omikrontak. As you can see, it's quite different. This means that we are faced with quite a lot of uncertainty as to how that branch behaves. In the meantime there are also two subvariants of the Omikron virus, one with S gene dropout and one without. That is a technical fact, but that may be important for detection. What else do we know, except that the variant has a lot of mutations? We can see that it is spreading very quickly in certain countries, primarily in South Africa, but in the meantime we are also getting signals from the United Kingdom that there is a rapid increase in omikron. Yesterday I had a meeting with my English colleagues. They've confirmed that. Until recently, the United Kingdom had relatively few measures. The situation there is different from ours. The space that such a variant gets there is a lot bigger than ours. The figure shows the situation in South Africa. Certain curves reflect the previous wave. The black ascending line is the increase in the number of cases of that omikron variant. It's going up very steep. In South Africa, however, most people have a certain immunity, a small part due to vaccination, a larger part due to a previous infection with the beta variant or with the delta variant. Omikron, however, does not seem to be so much hindered by this. My colleagues in the UK confirm more than 500 cases, which is a relatively small number, but as far as the increase is concerned, they do see a doubling of the number of cases every two to three days. That's fast. The mutations in the spike protein are typically located in a place where antibodies bind in the omicron variant. We had a suspicion that there would be a problem with the detection by antibodies. This has also been confirmed in recent days by numerous laboratory studies, including one from Germany. I have given an example of a study, but there are similar ones. The recognition by antibodies has been greatly reduced. Those antibodies have been given to humans by previous vaccination with two doses of the vaccine or by an earlier natural infection. In many cases, there is no recognition by the antibodies anymore. The good news that comes out of the studies is that if immunity is given an extra boost or immunity is stimulated, for example by giving a third dose, there is again activity of the antibodies, also against omikron. It is not as strong as against the other variants, but probably enough to be effective. We also see that people who have so-called hybrid immunity, who are vaccinated people who are also exposed to the virus.................................................................................................................................................................................................. Their antibodies are also able to neutralize omikron. So Omikron can't completely escape our antibodies. However, antibodies must have a high level to be active. The results also show that in people who have only contracted the infection there is hardly any recognition by the antibodies. This partly explains what we see in South Africa. Omikron is spreading there as if the population there is completely naive and as if it does not have immunity. It's about contagion. It's not about illness. That is another matter. However, a lot of recontaminations are reported in South Africa. In the meantime, we also know the following. Antibodies can be grown thanks to vaccination or after a natural contamination. However, antibodies can also be produced in the lab or industrially, put into a jar and administered to humans. This is a treatment that is sometimes given in hospital or to patients at high risk who are getting worse, in order to prevent them from getting into hospital. In the meantime, for example, there is one very well-known preparation, Regeneron. That's the product that was applied to President Trump. It contains two antibodies. However, they no longer work against omikron. Omikron is mutated in such a way that those antibodies are no longer effective. That can be adjusted. Antibodies can be adjusted. There are other preparations on the market, which are likely to give rise to an activity. However, this is an example where the virus is likely to have escaped the efficacy of that product. Those are the things we know for sure. On the next slide you will see what we know about the spread. Omikron has already been detected in all continents. Where do we see it mostly showing up? Firstly, in countries that have good monitoring systems, which carry out good genomic monitoring. Those countries pick up the virus and deliver us most of the data. This is the case, for example, in South Africa, the United Kingdom and Denmark. Also in Belgium. We have a pretty good system. We also find cases. There are a number of grey countries on the world map. Of this, the data should be taken with a grain of salt. They are often countries that do not properly monitor and monitor the situation. So we don't really know about that. You can see that in many of these countries travel-related cases are found, for example in people coming back from southern Africa, but also in local cases. In short, omikron is already a bit everywhere. Mostly still in relatively low numbers. Sometimes large outbreaks are also seen, including in Oslo and in Denmark, related to parties. It is seen that after such a party 30 % to 50 % of the people who participated in it gets infected. That's a high attack rate. However, that is not so special in itself. These are things that we have already seen in other variants. In the delta variant you can do that, for example. The next slide shows the current state of affairs in Belgium. We find more and more cases of omikron. In the meantime, at least 30 cases have been confirmed in the lab. We know about 3 outbreaks, or clusters, that are travel-related. That's how someone brought it in through Egypt, Turkey, Dubai, the Czech Republic. But there is also 1 cluster in a school where we have not yet found a travel link. So it is quite possible that the virus is already circulating locally on our territory. When we look at the data from the reference lab, based on the signals from the PCR tests performed, we get an idea of how many of those tests might detect the omikron variant. That's the so-called S dropout signal. The reference lab estimates that at the moment 1 % to 2 % of the infections could have been caused by omikron. That has not yet been confirmed, but we can see that the percentage is rising. The figure you see at the bottom shows the percentage of S dropouts. This is a profile that we typically see in the omikron variant. Not only, because the delta variant has that also sometimes, but it is mainly about omikron at the moment. It is seen that the percentage is gradually rising. Until recently that was 0.2 %, the last few days we see that we are at 1 to 2 %, so that seems to increase. Perhaps the most important question is: what do we not know yet? A first point is the question of what is the reason for the rapid increase or spread of the virus in different countries. A distinction must be made here, because the rapid growth of a virus is not the same as the inherent infection of the virus; that is a little too short. The spread of a virus is caused by three things. Firstly, to what extent is the virus hampered by immunity, built up among the population? To what extent can the virus evade that basic immunity? In technical terms, that's what we call the immuno-evasion. If a virus can do that well, then it can spread more easily and has a competitive advantage on a virus that is more hampered by our antibodies. Secondly, dissemination is also determined by the number of contacts. In a country such as South Africa there were hardly any restrictions and in fact the same was true until recently for the United Kingdom and Denmark, all countries where we see a rapid advance from omikron, but which until recently had relatively few measures. In Belgium, the situation is different. A third factor that can play a role is an inherent characteristic of the virus, the infection. How much virus does someone produce, how much of the virus separates a person, how does it spread? That could be linked to certain mutations. In the press, the infectiousness and the spread or growth of a variant are used rather quickly as a kind of synonym, but that is not quite the same. A second point is the question of the origin of the virus. We don't know that yet. This variant was first described in South Africa on 25 November last, but we suspect it originated earlier. We do think it's quite recent, it's not a variant that's been circulating for months or a year without us knowing. We suspect that this variant has appeared recently, at the end of October or early November, according to the latest estimates, and presumably in Africa, but we are not 100 % sure of that either. Then we come to the seriousness of the disease, one of the key questions. There are quite a few rumors and stories from South Africa that indicate that the virus would be highly contagious but gives a much milder picture of disease. I spoke with English and South African colleagues yesterday. They confirmed that we are not yet in a position to do so. The idea that this variant would be milder is speculation at the moment. The severity of symptoms is determined by a number of factors. For example, there is the patient's profile, with age and underlying conditions. There is a certain basic immunity in the population and in the risk population. The properties of the virus can also play a role. It's about certain mutations. So that's complicated. We can see at the moment that there are a lot of mild infections in South Africa. However, there is also an increase in the number of hospitalisations. There is also an increase in the number of deaths. However, this increase seems to be somewhat slower than the increase in the number of infections. One has to be careful because there is always a certain delay. It is too early to say anything about this. We also see that young people in South Africa are mostly infected at the moment. They also have the most contacts. It's usually also young people who haven't been vaccinated. In South Africa, it is often the older population who have been vaccinated. We know from young people that they usually develop a milder disease. Most people in South Africa actually only have natural immunity, due to the previous waves they have experienced. We know that natural immunity does not create enough barriers to counter the spread of omikron. The antibodies that are being developed hardly recognize this omikron after a few months. So it's just too early to say anything about the disease. We are not going to be able to learn about this from the field data until further notice. A very important question is how well our vaccines protect. In the meantime, we have all heard of these antibodies. As one suspected in advance, based on the mutations, these antibodies are less effective against omikron. The antibodies that we have grown after vaccination or after natural contamination, recognise this variant much less well than the delta variant, especially than the alpha variant. However, our immunity is much more complex than antibodies alone. We also have cellular immunity, which is determined for a large part by T-cells. Those T-cells are stimulated and trained by vaccination, but also by natural contamination. We suspect that the T-cells will also remain active against the Omikron variant. It is very difficult for a virus and its variants to evade T-cell immunity. This works according to a very different mechanism, in which certain parts of the virus are recognized that are often very well preserved and can not vary so easily. So I think the T-cell immunity will stay intact. T-cells usually act a little later, they don't protect us from contamination. They also do not have such a great effect on transmission, transmission of the virus, but can play an important role in protecting against serious disease. When the virus is in the lungs and can cause serious complications, T-cells can make a big difference. That's something we'll have to learn, that's not so easy to determine in the lab. It is important that antibodies are not synonymous with the efficacy of the vaccine. It's more complex than that. In order to really assess the vaccine activity, we have to wait again for more data from the field. That's not gonna be possible to determine in the lab alone. Pfizer recently confirmed in a press release that a booster dose increases the effectiveness of the antibodies against omikron. The company also indicated that the CD8-T cells, which are generated by their vaccine, will probably also work against omikron, something that doesn't surprise me at all. What's the impact on us? Does this mean a fifth wave? We don't know that very well. A pandemic comes in waves, that's something we do know. It's a sequence of waves. Often they are triggered by a new variant. If it's not the Omikron variant, it's probably a different variant. The fact that we're gonna get another fifth wave is more likely for me than unlikely. How high will it be? How intense will it be? What measures do we need to control them? These are matters that we cannot say with certainty at the moment. If one looks at the situation in South Africa, but also in the UK, one can see that this omikron variant has certain advantages, possibly also in relation to the delta variant. It may be that the Omikron variant will cause a next wave and become dominant in the next few weeks and will thus replace the delta variant. It is difficult to say exactly what that means for the burden of our care system and the extent of that wave. This depends, among other things, on the measures, on the contacts we have, i.e. elements that are different in each country. It will gradually become clear, so we must continue to monitor and evaluate this. The last slide deals with the question: what can we do at the moment? If you look at the lab results on the antibodies, it's clear that a booster dose can help us. We already saw that in the delta variant, it's nothing new. The omikron story confirms that it is important that we give that booster shot and that people understand that it is very useful, not only against the delta variant, but also against the omikron variant. As a result, our antibodies will go up and down, and protection will also become wider. And that's what we need. 'Browder' means that a larger range of variants is recognized. The covid measures will continue to work regardless of the variant. The same will be true with the omikron variant. Wearing a mask, keeping away, ventilation, limiting our contacts: these cases work against any coronavirus, also against omikron and other variants. The Omikron variant also pushes us to the facts that it is important to quickly crush this fourth wave. We must reduce the burden on our hospitals as quickly as possible, because there is little margin at the moment. We have the uncertainty of the omikron variant and the uncertainty of a flu epidemic that may still come towards us. We need to have a reserve in the hospitals soon, and we need to be able to recharge the batteries there. That is an important argument not to relax too quickly now. We still have an occupation of more than 800 beds on intensive care; so there is still a very long way to go down. It is important to stress that omikron is currently rare in our country. Most infections are still caused by the delta variant. I think it still makes sense to try to avoid new imports of that virus. So we can buy a few weeks. Not much, we won't be able to stop it completely: if that variant is really in favour, it will take over. But we could win maybe one or two weeks. That could be helpful. By then we will have more information, and we have had more time to complete and complete our booster campaign. Currently, strict test and quarantine rules are in force for travellers from VOC countries. We're gonna have to hold on to that one. I do think it is important that an entry ban from South Africa and other African countries should remain a temporary measure. At some point the omikron variant will be spread in Belgium so that these additional introductions from abroad will no longer make the big difference. Then we must concentrate on local and national measures. At the moment it makes sense to avoid new introductions, because every time the virus enters, it can be the beginning of one or more clusters, the virus can spread and it can go faster. So we can slow it down a little bit, but we will never be able to stop it completely. Such an entry ban must be temporary, because some of them also punish countries which are doing very well and have a good monitoring system. South Africa has an excellent monitoring system, has been very transparent and is now partly punished for it, in the sense that it is isolated. We now have some fear that, in the future, other countries may think twice before they raise the alarm when a new variant appears on their territory. We must therefore try to be proportionate and apply such measures on a temporary basis. I suggest that we give the Minister the floor now, but I will, of course, remain available for questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u3	Thank you, Professor Van Gucht, you stayed perfectly within your set time of twenty minutes. I propose that we now proceed to the questions of the Members of Parliament, as planned, after which you can answer both questions, depending on who the question is asked. Mrs Gijbels had tabled two questions and has four minutes to ask her questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u4	First of all, I would like to say that technical-scientific sessions are very interesting. Hopefully we will soon have time to invite more speakers, to keep us fully informed about what is going on. Professor Van Gucht, thank you for your statement. I have some technical questions for you. You mentioned two subtypes of the omikron variant, one with S gene dropout and the other without. Do you have any idea of the distribution? If we want to use PCR tests to estimate the presence of the omicron variant, I suppose that's only possible with the version where the dropout is present. It would be interesting to know the distribution of the types. In Denmark there is a lot of sequencing and very often. Is that enough for us? Would it be interesting to do that more? I have often spoken in committee about wastewater screening, monitoring the sewage. Is the waste water also tested for variants and in particular for the omicron variant? In Denmark, several clusters of omikron were detected in this way. Could we not get a better idea of how the type of virus might already be distributed? Have we made a simulation of how fast the fifth wave could be when the omikron variant continues? I understand that it depends on the measures that are being followed and adopted or not, but I can imagine that they can be incorporated into different models. In the reports on South Africa, I noticed that there were also zero- to two-year-olds admitted to hospital. It was not entirely clear whether this was due to the omikron variant. That age group may have had less to do with infections than before. Could it be that they may have less basic resistance than children who have grown up in other times? Should we keep an extra eye on the pandemic babies? Then I come to my questions for the Minister. We still don't know a lot, as mentioned repeatedly in the presentation. However, we must be prepared for different scenarios, such as higher levels of infection, the avoidance of immunity or the fact that more young people are affected. Are those scenarios worked out? Do we know what to do if one of these factors is decisive? Have these scenarios been communicated to the various partners who have to act in a crisis such as this, so that there is no panic when a particular scenario takes place? The graph you showed seems to be based on the dropout gene, but I thought there was a sequence in the national reference laboratory as well. Can you tell me more about that? Was there any retrograde research done on older samples? Are samples of sewer water also kept to be able to look back later on if a particular variant was already present earlier than expected? Finally, there are two concerns about the disease. On the one hand, the hospitals are in danger of being flooded and, if necessary, we need to ensure that we are able to employ sufficient resources quickly. If the variant is less sickening, then on the other hand primary care will be flooded, so we must also be prepared, all the more so if it turns out to be a very contagious variant. This means, for example, that sufficient administrative resources can be deployed quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u5	Thank you for your explanation, Professor Van Gucht. Mr Minister, I had initially asked your colleague, Mrs Wilmès, but I suspect that you and the professor will be able to answer some of my questions. The spread of a new variant of the corona virus in South Africa gives rise to great concern. In particular, experts fear that the new variant is even more contagious than the delta variant and that the vaccines may be less effective. In the meantime, several countries decided to keep travel with six countries from southern Africa, namely South Africa itself, Namibia, Lesotho, Swaziland, Zimbabwe and Botswana, to an absolute minimum, to suspend air traffic with those countries and to introduce further restrictions on travel. What specific measures did Belgium take to limit air traffic with the above six southern African countries to the absolute minimum? How far does this entry ban go? To what extent and for what purposes are travel to and from these countries still possible? What exceptions are there? There were some shocking reports in the press about travellers from South Africa, who were surprised at the ease with which they had entered the country. I'd like a statement on that. How is this checked? Professor Van Gucht just spoke of strict testing and quarantine rules in relation to the VOC countries, but how sure are we that they are being carried out and followed? European cooperation is more than desirable here. Announcing a ban on entry for certain countries is one thing, it is a good start, but it is not a good start when, for example, the parties concerned enter countries in Paris instead of Brussels and then Belgium without problems. Will Belgium at European level call for a joint restriction of travel or join other countries that are asking for it? Finally, should the limited list of six countries not be extended in the short term? It is almost certain that the new change will not be confined to South Africa and neighbouring countries, but will probably also extend to neighbouring countries such as Congo. Professor Van Gucht just said that there is already a rapid rise in the United Kingdom and we all know that the virus does not stop at the border.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u6	Professor Van Gucht, your presentation and your information correspond exactly to what we expected today. Many questions have already been asked by my colleague Gijbels. I wonder more about the adaptation of our strategy. We come to the end of two years of pandemic. It was known that this omicron variant would occur and that it would call into question the efficacy of vaccines. I read in a tweet from a well-known microbiologist that a suitable vaccine was announced and probably available in 100 days. Is it still useful? If it is to keep running behind this pandemic, knowing that until the whole world is vaccinated, new variants can always occur, the current situation will continue. In terms of timing, we need to think about how to deal with this pandemic over the long term and adapt our strategy, which is currently not fully bearing fruit. It may be necessary to anticipate in the longer term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u7	Madam President, with regard to the question itself, I would like to refer to the written version. The introduction to my question is already dated and my questions have been more or less answered by the professor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u8	I would like to ask a few more questions to the professor. You talked about subvariants, one with an S gene dropout and the other not. That's important for detection. Why is that important? You say that omikron can be found in all continents. Australia is about hermetically sealed, but on your presentation I see that Omikron is also present. Why is that? Are those infections from Africa? That seems difficult to me, as Australia is almost hermetically sealed off. Our antibodies don't recognize the omicron variant very well anymore, but fortunately we still have a second barrier, namely the T-cells. If they're induced by vaccination, recognize those omikrons. However, if they are generated by natural contamination, do they recognize omikron as well? You say so. I'll follow Mr. Campbell's documentaries on YouTube. They're very interesting. The rumors from South Africa indicate that it would be a milder virus, perhaps more contagious, but the disease would be milder. Let's hope this is right. Is it then possible that it will become an endemic virus and should we adapt our measures accordingly so that we eventually learn to live with the virus?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u9	Mrs Depoorter, you will have the floor for your two questions, giving you four minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u10	Madam President, Minister, Professor Van Gucht, since my questions are already somewhat dated, I have some additional questions about vaccines. Professor Van Gucht, you spoke of the T-cells, which are hard to avoid due to new variants, something that is often said. When do you expect us to have certainty about that? If we get the investigation and the data out of the field, how long do we have to wait? Yesterday, the EEA validated the booster dose after 12 weeks. We had called for this in plenary. Professor Van Gucht, do you think it is appropriate to give maximum booster vaccines now, so to ensure that a maximum number of people receive a third shot as soon as possible and thus respect the 12-week interval as soon as possible? You indicated that you didn't want to relax too quickly and you also talked about travel restrictions. Christmas vacation's coming up. Do you mean travel restrictions for our citizens or do you mean only a restriction on the entry of people coming from the south? We know that the omikron variant now has an advance almost everywhere. How do you deal with travelling to the UK, for example? With regard to the measures and their possible relaxation, I have reviewed the latest study by IDEWE. For example, we read that hairdressers are not more at risk of contamination than other sectors. Homework presents no less risk of transmission than working in sectors where well ventilated. In that context, what is your vision of the future, if we have to learn to live with the virus and a fifth wave is likely? It seems to me that we should search as much as possible for a way of life that is optimal for us socio-economic, mental and medical and puts the virus out of play as much as possible. In order to achieve this, I believe that we should base ourselves on data from that study. There is an adjustment of the vaccine, and the producers are working on it. It would take a hundred days for the appropriate vaccines to be administered. Do you think it is appropriate to prepare that fourth shot already? Is there a need to communicate with the population about this too? Yesterday we read in the newspaper that a third of the population has doubts about the third shot, but from a scientific point of view we know that the third shot is necessary. From that point of view, do you think it is appropriate to bet on the fourth shot already? You also said a fifth wave is possible. Minister, how will you be committed to resilience to health after the fifth wave? Will you take care of more I.A. staff? Will you ensure a buddy working? Will you make sure our hospitals can handle this? I checked my pharmacy to see if the self-tests and the quick tests we sell also detect the omikron variant. After all, there is a certificate. Mr Minister, can you guarantee that all the self-tests sold in our country today will also detect the omikron variant? There's a second problem. A customer had bought a self-test in which only a French-language package leaflet was included. Are the package leaflets of the self-tests not sold in the pharmacy circuit checked? Are they also suitable for the omikron variant? We ordered 10,000 doses of virus inhibitors. There's another virus inhibitor, Paxloid, that's still under review. I have read that it is recommended to provide 1 % of the population with doses. We have provided 0.1% of the population. Are there any advice to buy more, especially in view of the fact that there could be another fifth wave?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u11	Are you talking about molnupiravir?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u12	I'm talking about Paxloid and molnupiravir. I have another question for Professor Van Gucht about the eitwit vaccines. We know that a number of healthcare providers have a medical contra-indication to be vaccinated. The obligation's coming up. Would you then recommend that those caregivers give protein vaccines so that they can work protected?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u13	Mrs Depoorter has already asked some of the questions I had, so I can be brief. I also have a question about the antivirals. Are there any effectiveness studies that show that these also work for the omikron variant? There would be a fifth and perhaps also a sixth and seventh wave coming at us. Today we have no certainty about infectious diseases caused by globalisation. Have there been effective studies in our country of the measures taken across all waves? I have seen that the Institut Pasteur has published such a study in Paris. It doesn't match any of the previous studies I've read. For example, it was indicated that travel could be a real source of infection, while previous scientific studies said that travel was a rather safe activity. So I'm looking. Were there studies on this at federal level? Is this what we are doing to ensure that the barometer is properly implemented? For the rest, my questions have already been asked by others.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u14	Madam President, I would also like to thank Mr. Van Gucht for his presentation. What we have just heard is not reassuring. Today, the emergence of the omicron variant is a cause for concern. As you have pointed out, Mr Van Gucht, we do not yet know much about this variant, except that it is extremely contagious, that it is undergoing many mutations and that it could become dominant within a few weeks. The uncertainties about this new variant are numerous, at a time when each of us needs more certainty and longer-term prospects. I hear we're gonna have to get used to this virus and live with it, which is probably true. But what do we know today, Minister, about the vaccines available, their effectiveness in relation to this variation and especially the interest of the third dose (booster)? What about the efficacy of the new Novavax and Sanofi/GSK vaccine, which is not based on adenovirus or messenger RNA, but directly on the Spike protein? Could these two vaccines be used in Belgium to strengthen our vaccination campaign? When is the marketing authorisation by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) expected? Finally, could you tell us when enhanced vaccines to combat the delta variant will be available on the market?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u15	Madam President, Minister Van Gucht, thank you for your presentation, which raises some concerns. Here I want to focus on three particular points. First, surveillance of variants. I would also like to commend the work done by the experts in South Africa. Indeed, still today, the World Health Organization (WHO) is wondering about the mutation of the omicron variant that has evolved in recent months without being noticed to finally explode today. Mr Van Gucht, you have explained how much more this variant mutates than the delta variant, so much so that we have just discovered a stealthy version of this new variant. Secondly, with regard to vaccine efficacy, one could be reassured that this booster dose could strengthen antibodies to deal with the virus. But while people are being invited to receive this third dose, pharmaceutical laboratories are developing a so-called adapted vaccine. Thirdly, there is the question of the population's adherence to this booster dose. It can be seen that a whole portion of the population remains reluctant to this third dose or even to vaccination in general. We are also seeing today, as the latest measures close a whole series of sectors, the CST is no longer the incentive it was, especially for young people. Here are my questions. Is the genome sequencing work advanced enough to understand these mutations allowing a variant that is initially safe to become much more contagious? When it comes to the appropriate vaccine, is there a vaccine that activates both the antibodies and the T cells you mentioned earlier? What about the purchase of the new versions of these vaccines that are announced? Won't they be too late? You tell us that the omicron variant would be dominant by January, even February, as companies announce this vaccine for March. There is also the Novavax vaccine, which would address the concerns of people who respond poorly to messenger RNA vaccines. Are there any plans to proceed with its purchase? Will it be effective in dealing with new variants?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u16	Could you close it slowly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u17	Yes, I will finish with three last questions, if I may. You also said that some treatments would no longer work against the variant. Is the issue of the anti-covid pill, developed by Pfizer, part of it? Are we still going to continue to buy these antiviral treatments? I will conclude with two political questions. Minister, how are you going to ensure that the population adheres to the third dose? Will you diversify the information channels to reach the different target audiences? With regard to vaccination in the world, we know how much we will always be faced with new variants if we do not make sure that the whole world is vaccinated. Yesterday, the Minister for Development Cooperation explained to us in plenary session that we were going to continue to make donations, that we were also supporting a plant in Senegal to enable this type of country to produce vaccines directly on their territory. But isn't that a drop of water in an ocean? Would it not be time to put on the table of the government the temporary lifting of patents on vaccines and to advocate this at European level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u18	Madam President, Minister, since the tabling of my question, a great deal of information has come to us every day. The situation of variants has been described by scientists and epidemiologists on several occasions with interpretations or even estimates that have not always proved correct. This is obviously not simple. Recently, the European Commission has pointed out that vaccine purchase agreements include a clause to adapt to variations by producing companies. A period of 100 days is specified. Furthermore, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) also recalled that an approval can be granted in three to four months. Since mid-July, a KUL study has shown that the delta variant represents 95% of the cases in our country. On August 5, U.S. health data indicated that the efficacy of Pfizer and Moderna vaccines decreased from 91% to 66% against the dominant delta variant. At the beginning of November, you said that we had underestimated the contagiosity of the delta variant. Indeed, Israel, for example, has been administering its third dose for four months since 10 August. In addition, vaccines have reportedly been adapted to control beta and delta variants. But, recently, researchers at UCL indicated that the current vaccines are sufficient to control the delta variant and even the omicron, considering that the strain of the virus remains the same. This seems to be confirmed in the last few hours. However, a KUL biostatistician states that this omicron variant bypasses immunity built by an earlier infection and current vaccines. He speaks well of a new strain of the virus, while the current third dose is effective and that Pfizer has announced that it has made a vaccine suitable for omicron since March. At the same time, other immunologists recall that the question of a further decrease in effectiveness of the third dose in a few months may occur at a time when the omicron variant may have become dominant in our population. It is true that the number of cases increased eleven times in six days in England. Minister, you will agree that all this contradictory information can undermine the public's confidence in the decisions made, the vaccines, their effectiveness and the campaign launched for the third dose. This is confirmed. Yesterday the results of opinion studies were published, including the motivation barometer carried out by ULB, UCL, KUL and UGent. These indicate that 33% of Belgians vaccinated refuse this booster or hesitate. It is clear that this involves actions and responsiveness to the current decision-making processes. What applications are made by our health authorities to the European Commission in the context of the adaptation of vaccines by their designers/producers under the 100-day clause? Do you confirm that adapted vaccines have been developed to control beta and delta variants? Is it correct that no EMA approvals have been issued for these beta and delta variants? What information have you received from the European Commission on this matter? How, when and by whom is it decided that a variant thrives and involves the use of vaccine adaptation? Precisely regarding the omicron variant, what is your information about its evolution, how it thrives and a vaccine suitable for administration? What analyses do you receive from our Vaccination Task Force and AFMPS as well as from European bodies? What initiatives have you taken with them to ensure responsiveness and political decision-making at the right time at our level and at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u19	Madam President, Professor Van Gucht, thank you very much for your explanation. You answered the questions I had. I would have liked to know from you whether there is any knowledge of the infection of older people in South Africa or in the United Kingdom. Do we have a view of what the omikron variant is doing there with the elderly? Minister, I also have a number of questions for you. The omikron variant causes some concern. There are many unknown factors. A number of preparations are therefore necessary. The pharmaceutical companies have always said that in a few months they could adapt their vaccines to new variants of COVID-19. Do you know or do the pharmaceutical companies already know if they could make that adjustment for the omikron variant? Personally, I have some reservations about a possible new vaccine and what that would mean for the booster campaign, which is currently going well. What will we do if there is an adapted vaccine for the omikron variant and there is an intermediate period between the booster vaccine that we are now administering and the modified vaccine for omikron? I also understood from Mr Van Gucht's presentation that rapid isolation will be important. That has always been important in the past. Given the possibly higher infectiousness of the omikron variant, this may become even more important. This also means, however, that it is important that we can continue to test frequently. Over the past period, our test capacity has been under pressure with over 100,000 tests per day. Are there any possibilities to increase the test capacity in order to be ready, if necessary, to carry out more tests? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u20	Minister, Professor Van Gucht, thank you for your presentation. I will mention a few scientific elements before going on to the political side. The big question today is who will win the game, if I can say so, between delta and omicron. The latest data from the United Kingdom, Denmark, etc. Apart from what we already knew about South Africa, the question is. You mentioned 1.5% to 2% for Belgium. Do we not have a significant margin of error, as we have seen at the very beginning, even if we are more precise today because more sequencing is being done? We could be in the presence of a state-of-the-art iceberg phenomenon. You didn't talk about the serum tests that were performed in Innsbruck, especially to examine both the exhausts and the immune escape. The data are, of course, very preliminary but interesting and relate to what can protect against vaccination. Two doses are clearly insufficient. It'll be either three doses, or a booster for someone who's already had a covid. It is true that this data is preliminary, but it is interesting to talk about it because it must lead us to reconsider the strategy politically. I am coming, Minister, to the political strategy. I will address a few points quickly. It's a shame, but we don't have much time. That would require something a little bit more. Firstly, we must, of course, minimize at best the next wave, whether it is called delta, omicron or omega or something else, keeping our hands on the brake constantly and developing what has not yet been implemented at 100% today. I am thinking in particular of ventilation. It's really a link that could strengthen us. Second, there is a stall in the surveillance of vigie physicians at the level of influenza. This stall took place more or less at the end of November. It's an inquisitive thing! Shouldn't a call for influenza vaccination now be revived for those who are not yet vaccinated and who are at risk? Third, with regard to booster, it has been known for several weeks now that vaccine efficacy is decreasing, not after six months but already after four or five months. Several countries have adapted their strategies by anticipating the booster at four months. I am obviously talking about vaccination after a messenger RNA vaccine. Would it not be necessary now, in Belgium, to anticipate the booster? We could start vaccination with booster – or third dose – for those who received a messenger RNA vaccine as early as the fourth month after the second dose of vaccination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u21	Mrs Fonck, I'm asking you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u22	We know that Pfizer is working on a suitable vaccine. What about it? Will orders at European level follow the same pattern as previous ones? Has a timetable been announced by the firms? Minister, it seems to me important that you can clarify things. Finally, I would have liked to talk about the working method with regard to Codeco, but I will not have the time to do so. I'll come back to it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u23	Maybe you can come back to it on the occasion of your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u24	Thank you, Mr van Gucht, for your statement. You said earlier that the protection after a first and second dose, or after a natural immunity, is not efficient enough against the omikron variant, but that a third dose will be. Can you explain a little bit better why that's happening? After all, we know that with each dose millions of euros or dollars are being made. People want to make sure there's no abuse. Pfizer also announces that the third dose is effective, but how sure are you and what is the proof of that? You also say that we already know that the omikron variant is more contagious. So we don't know how dangerous he is yet, but we know he's more contagious. Are there any consequences for our testing strategy? After all, it is intended that people do not contaminate each other, so are the current criteria good enough in terms of quarantine rules, for example? Now, after a high-risk contact, one has to test after three to six days, after which one can be quarantined four days later with a quick test, but is this policy adapted to the omikron variant? We can already ask ourselves whether it is adapted to the delta variant. I had the same question about the rapid tests as Mrs Depoorter. Are they efficient for the Omikron variant and should not be used more massively, as they turn out to be able to prove that someone is contagious as long as that is the case. Do you also think there's a problem with the availability of these quick tests? They now cost 8 euros, although there would be something cheaper for sale in Colruyt. Should the self-tests, in your opinion, be reimbursed by the sickness funds? The major political debate is about the emerging variants and the protection of intellectual property on vaccines. I address myself to the Minister, but I would also have liked to have heard your advice as a scientist. For over a year, the poorer countries have been asking for this knowledge to be shared. There has also been a lot of discussion over the last few days. There was an interview with you in De Morgen. You said in that interview that you thought it was cynical because the South Africans have reported that variant in a proper sequencing, but eventually they are punished with very strong travel restrictions that have an impact on their economy. Meanwhile, the pharmaceutical industry is getting ready to adapt the vaccines. If these vaccines are there, the people in Africa may be the last to benefit from them. So this story gets more cynical every day. What do you, as a scientist, think about protecting those patents? Minister, politically speaking, how long can we keep the situation blocked in Europe? Today an editorial appeared in De Standaard that stated that the arguments for not sharing the formula of the patents do not last at all. Mrs Kitir said it again this week, now a little stronger than last time. I encourage that. Minister, what is your position? What is the position of our government? What do you think of that? After all, over time, we are complicit in maintaining the pandemic worldwide. We also have an international responsibility, which begins to weigh harder and heavier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u25	I should like to begin by saying that Mr Van Gucht will be able to correct where necessary. I think that's the best procedure. Madam President, I should like to begin by apologizing for being delayed by the Council of Ministers. I'll get right to the point. More than ever, we are going through days, perhaps weeks, of great uncertainty. Actually, that's the lesson we always learn again. This virus, this pandemic, confronts us with fundamental uncertainty. What should one do when one is fundamentally insecure? A first important hold is science. A second important point is that we, as people, are able to act together in solidarity, join forces and achieve results in this way. As far as I am concerned, they are and remain science and solidarity. That is why I felt it was important not only to sit here today in this actua debate, but to have Professor Van Gucht with me. The best thing that can happen in such a debate with Parliament is that our scientific institution, Sciensano, represented here by Mr Van Gucht, gives a direct state of affairs. What is important about this state of affairs, as Mr Van Gucht stressed very well, is that there is uncertainty among scientists as well. However, scientists have a method of dealing with this: collecting the facts, critically reviewing the facts, adjusting an opinion where necessary, adjusting a therapy, changing a strategy where necessary, but everything based on facts and analysis. It is important to explain this to the population as well. I want to get pretty practical right away. What should we do, have asked many Members here. What does politics have to say about that? I will have Mr Van Gucht fill in on what I am saying, because a number of questions are better dealt with by him. What does politics have to say about this? What works with certainty against something like the omikron variant? I think they are simple measures, such as wearing a mouth mask, also for children. We know with absolute certainty that this also works very well against this omikron variant. I also believe that we should tell the population that we will probably have to use mouth masks for a long period, perhaps at certain times more intense than in other periods. Perhaps there will be periods in which mouth masks will be of little importance, and then there will be periods in which mouth masks are again important. We have often used the term 'jojo policy' in the past to say that it was not good to make rapid changes to the policy. A yo-yo policy is not good, but what we may have to give to the population is that sometimes we will have to switch something off and sometimes we will have to switch on again. It could be a bit of a swing. We have to give that to the people today. This applies, for example, to wearing mouth masks. In summer, when one walks outside much, they are less important than in winter, when one sits inside a lot. The same goes for keeping your distance. That is why I am a little unhappy today when I hear people say that they want to remove those masks for children as soon as possible. No, we do not know whether we can remove the masks for children as soon as possible. I think we should take a look at that. Whatever works for sure is ventilation. Ventilation is very underestimated in the beginning. I believe that we now know with certainty that ventilation is extremely important. So I had a preliminary draft law drawn up by my administration. That's ahead of the federal government right now. That preliminary draft law covers the whole problem of air quality and intends to form a basis for a whole ventilation strategy. That's not easy. I hope my colleagues will follow me in this, because I think it will be very important. After all, we know with certainty that ventilation works. What we are perhaps less sure about is what the vaccines and boosters are about. I will not repeat everything Mr Van Gucht has said and I am sure he can contradict me. The political conclusion can be summarised as follows: with regard to the quality of the booster shot, it is better to take care of the uncertainty and use the vaccination campaign as a weapon, not only against the current variant, but also against the omikron variant. There are many indications and you can also say a priori with some probability that such a booster vaccine helps. That is why it is better to take the safe side and bet very strongly on the boosters. Some members asked if we should stick to the schedules, namely a booster six months after Moderna and Pfizer, four months after AstraZeneca and two months after Johnson & Johnson. Should we maybe shorten those time intervals? I have asked for formal advice from the High Health Council and the Task Force Vaccination, after consultation with the other health ministers. I await their formal advice, and I am sure that the operational aspects of the campaign will also be very important. You will probably already understand from the reaction of Flemish Health Minister Wouter Beke that he strongly stresses that he uses an operational schedule in the Flemish vaccination campaign, in which the rhythm of those two, four and six months works well. Changing that pace is not self-evident, it is an operational issue. Suppose you also want to vaccinate children between 5 and 11 years old quickly, then you also need to develop capacity for that. So there are both scientific and biomedical as well as operational efficiency questions when we talk about those two, four and six month periods and any shortening of them. Following informal consultations on this matter with the other health ministers, I have therefore requested formal advice from the High Health Council and the Task Force Vaccination. I am waiting for that at the moment, but we must look at it with an open mind. A third element of which we are sure – I thank Mrs Fonck for referring to it – is that of influenza vaccination, particularly for vulnerable people. I call on everyone, particularly the elderly or those who for reasons of comorbidity or professional background are involved, to be vaccinated against influenza. Mrs Fonck is right, there is uncertainty. We want to avoid at all costs a combination of the covid epidemic (still virulent) with that of seasonal flu. To this end, vaccination is extremely important. Mrs. Gijbels asked if I would develop scenarios. That's a very good question. We do not yet know with certainty what we stand for with the omikron variant, but I am grateful for the idea that one should think in scenarios. If one is insecure, it is not bad. Madam President, I would like to say straight away how I view the next meeting of the Consultative Committee. The Consultative Committee will not consider relaxing measures. People who think this is what this is about are mistaken agendas. In my opinion, and this is what the Prime Minister thinks about it, there will be four themes at the meeting of the Consultation Committee before Christmas. The first is, of course, the epidemiological situation. The second issue, which I think we should put explicitly on the agenda, is omikron. What does the appearance of the variant mean to us? This is a very important item on the agenda for the next meeting of the Consultative Committee. The third issue on which we certainly need to have a first exchange of views is the demand for a management strategy. I refer to the recurring discussion about, for example, the coronabarometer. We expect an explanation from the Coronac Commissioner, not necessarily in conclusion, but that should be discussed at that meeting of the Consultative Committee. I would like to say a little more about this later. Fourthly, I assume that Mr Facon will not yet have a final version of the report that we have asked him about the ways to maximise vaccination, be it a general obligation or a type 2G strategy or another strategy. A progress report would be useful. I believe that the Consultation Committee will have a heavy agenda, with the epidemiological situation, omikron, an exchange of views on a management strategy and, if possible, an exchange of views on the work that Mr Facon is doing on 2G, vaccination obligation and other strategies to maximise vaccination. So there won't be much time to talk about relaxation. That brings me to the approach, taking into account what Mrs Gijbels and others have said. Indeed, we need to consider, in the midst of great uncertainty, whether we can bring a little more predictability into what we are doing. The criticism of what has happened in recent weeks is, of course, understandable: such a cascade of decisions undoubtedly leads to confusion. I would like to say that I am convinced, whatever one may think about it, that the measures taken in the last month have an impact. This can also be seen from the fact that a turning point has been quickly reached: about 14 days after the first meeting of the Consultative Committees, these measures have begun to be effective. With all the criticisms we can make, the measures therefore have an impact. That's what we have to tell the people. However, there is indeed a demand for more predictability. In the beginning of the reign, now more than a year ago, there was a proposal on the table from the then Celeval for the introduction of a coronabarometer. At the time, I found..... and I was not the only.... that that was rather complicated, perhaps a little too mechanical and not so easy to handle. The Coronac Commissioner then drew up a simpler proposal, which we have also given a different name: the management strategy. There were essentially two alarm levels in it. Pedro Facon and I defended that firmly in the Conciliation Committee, but it was killed there. I remember very well how I will not give details - where and when; it was on 27 November last year. Too bad. In the summer we, the coronac committee, my staff and myself, had a very interesting negotiation with the event sector about a kind of management strategy, a kind of contingency plan for the event sector. I can only tell you that, in the political discussions that followed at the end of the summer, that too was ground up and killed. Why do I say that? I am in favour of such a management strategy, a simple barometer, contingency planning, in consultation with the sectors. But it is very important that politicians and all my colleagues really ask, wish and want to use it. If there is no political basis for this, it is always crossed by political decisions that are at odds with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u26	It is important to have an exchange of views on the new management strategy, which Mr Facon will introduce, at a forthcoming meeting of the Consultation Committee. It is important to know whether there is political support for this and whether the political world is willing to accept it or not. I think, quite frankly, that a management strategy should never exclude the unpredictable, sometimes very fast and unexpected, remembrance of strategies. We live with fundamental uncertainty. You know I'm an economist. One of the basic data in economic science is the difference between risk and uncertainty. We are not dealing here with risk, with things that one can calculate the probability of. We are dealing here with uncertainty. One cannot even calculate probability. That's much more fundamental. That is what we are dealing with. This academic thought aside. So, Mrs Gijbels, you asked me a good question, which made me say a few things about the next Consultative Committee, about a management strategy that is essential. Madam President, I come to the individual questions. I'm picking out the one I really need to answer politically. I assume that Mr Van Gucht will complement this. Mrs Samyn and other members asked questions about travel. In the field of international travel, the European Union has acted quickly. The European emergency braking mechanism has already been activated on Friday 26 November. Common recommendations have been adopted by all Member States. Since 28 November there has been an entry ban and it is prohibited for persons who have been on the territory of 9 countries in southern Africa at any time in the last 14 days to move directly or indirectly to Belgian territory. The nine countries added to the list of so-called high-risk countries are Botswana, Swaziland, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Zambia, Zimbabwe and South Africa. Only those who are of Belgian nationality or who have their main place of residence in our country can travel back to our country from those countries. There are a number of common exceptions, such as family members of compatriots, residents of European Member States in the Schengen area who travel to their own countries, travellers in transit travelling to countries outside the European Union and the Schengen area, persons travelling for compelling humanitarian reasons, diplomats and staff of international organisations for essential travel and transport personnel. Those are exceptions. For people who are not Belgian nationals or who do not have their main place of residence in our country, including those few exceptions, there is therefore a ban on entry. Those who are still allowed to travel to our country, for example a Belgian returning from one of the mentioned areas, should not only fill in the PLF, but should be tested here, resident or not, on day 1 and day 7. Anyone returning from a third country with a very high risk, of which we keep lists, must also be quarantined for 10 days. Those measures shall also apply to people who have been fully vaccinated. As Belgium does not have direct flights with the countries concerned, additional checks are carried out on the PLFs and are monitored to ensure that returning travellers comply strictly with the measures. I spoke about that particular list of countries with a very high risk. A more general measure has been agreed, namely for third countries, i.e. countries which do not belong to the European Union or to the Schengen countries. These are not third countries on the so-called white list. I am talking about third countries which are not on the so-called white list. The following applies to these countries. Travellers must take a negative test before leaving for Belgium. They shall be tested with a PCR test as soon as possible upon arrival. A second test follows after seven days. In the meantime, if they have not been vaccinated, they must remain in quarantine. If they have been vaccinated, they may be released from quarantine after the first test. In other words, we have taken action. I would also like to say that any positive test with an S gene dropout is naturally sequenced by a genomic sequence. In case of infection with omikron, the competent health inspection will, of course, closely monitor what needs to be done, including contact tracing and source detection. Mrs Depoter, you had a question about the medicines Molnupiravir and Paxloid. As far as molnupiravir is concerned, we have bilaterally negotiated a contract with Merck. We've already bought 10,000 doses. The contract allows to buy more discs bilaterally. It's actually open, only the numbers aren't fixed yet. The first 10,000 are purchased and delivered when they are produced. Then we can bring in additional drives according to the contract. However, it was clearly agreed that if there is a European joint purchase of this medicine, we will incorporate the Belgian bilateral agreement with Merck. As far as Paxlovid is concerned, I have proposed to my colleagues in the Beneluxa initiative, a partnership with the Benelux countries, Austria and Ireland in the field of pharmaceuticals, that we should perhaps do something together. There have been some reactions to that. It's possible that we're doing something with some other countries about Paxlovid. Of course, I'm not gonna wait too long for that. If necessary, Belgium should only conclude a contract for Paxlovid, always based on the same philosophy. I prefer a European approach, but I do not want to wait for it. Questions have been asked about the therapeutics Paxlvid and molnupiravir and what we know about omikron. Mr Van Gucht has already mentioned this, but perhaps we need to talk about what we might already know about this. I am afraid to say nothing about this at the moment, it should still be in the list of uncertainties. Mrs. Zanchetta, you asked a question about Novavax. These two recombinant protein vaccines use the SARS-CoV-2 virus spike protein as an antigen to help the body recognize and, ideally, fight the virus if a person is infected. The spike protein allows the coronavirus to enter human cells, including those in the lungs. For Novavax, the reported efficacy rate in the current context is 89.7%. Belgium has ordered 500,000 doses of Novavax vaccine, which will strengthen our vaccination campaign by targeting people allergic to PEG – a component in mRNA vaccines – or people who have had a serious side effect during a first injection with another vaccine. The Vaccination Task Force is currently studying how this Novavax vaccine could best be used in the vaccination campaign. Deliveries are expected in January. The authorisation of EMA is expected by 16 December. I dare not say anything about the relationship with omicron, I leave it to the scientists here. We have the idea of using Novavax as a specific element in our campaign. For Sanofi-GSK, rolling review started in July 2021, but there are delays in the submission of clinical data and evaluation results are not expected until February 2022. Mrs Rohonyi, you asked questions about therapies and testing – as well as Mr. From Caluwe. As far as testing capacity is concerned, I hope that we can continue with the existing capacity – in the process of rationalization and reduction. This may not be optimal, but the number of tests, by necessity, is reduced for people who have had high-risk contact and are vaccinated. For these, there will be only one test on the fifth day, instead of two, with a quarantine period of at least three days. The exit is allowed from the fourth day with a self-test. This should help streamline the use of our testing capability a little, with the aim of giving priority to testing symptomatic people. There are also questions about the urgent appeal to self-tests as auxiliary instruments – and I am making this call with my colleagues. We believe that this is important in teaching, for individuals, for the exit of 40 of those who have had high-risk contact. Another important question, are self-tests still reliable in an omicron context? I'm leaving Mr. Van Gucht will think about it and give us an answer. Mrs Rohonyi, like the President, you rightly pointed out the problem of our international solidarity. I'll be brief. I believe that, at European level, Belgium is one of the countries that stands ready for all kinds of innovative and creative initiatives to strengthen the capacity of other countries to produce vaccines and carry out vaccination campaigns. Belgium is not a brake on this. Moreover, I am not going to say again that at the VOCAX level, we are making a significant effort – but it is certainly not enough. Ms. Kitir also spoke on this issue. There is really an important challenge of international solidarity, which I stress. Belgium is not and cannot be a brake on this. Mrs Depoorter, I did not quite understand what you said about the French package leaflet. Are you saying that this self-test was purchased in another country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u27	That self-test was bought around the corner in a supermarket, had a package only in French and a package leaflet only in French. That is, of course, against the legislation. Each medical device sold in Belgium must have a package leaflet in the three country languages. That's been reported to the FAGG. The FAGG replied that it was aware of the situation and to contact the shopkeeper. Of course, that doesn't mean that things are being taken out of trade. What will you do about it? To what extent are these tests valid and reliable?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u28	I'll get that. I wasn't sure I understood the incident correctly. Mrs Farih, at the last Consultation Committee, Mr Facon presented a table of what we know from meta-studies on the effectiveness of strategies. I won't repeat what was in there. When I went into that during the Consultation Committee, that gave rise to some discussion. Studies on the effectiveness of measures exist, but we may need to renew them. Sciensano or the Knowledge Centre don't really do that to us. It is typically international consortia or scientific institutions that carry out that kind of meta-research. We can base our efforts on that. That is indeed important. I come to the important questions of Mrs Taquin and Mr. From Caluwe. Mrs Taquin, I hope you do not mind me answering you in Dutch, because my text is in Dutch and I do not want to improvise on the issue of vaccines and variants: when will we have such effective vaccines against the omicron variant? What are the procedures and what can be hoped for in this regard? In summary, the European Commission is following very closely all the scientific information available on the efficacy of the existing vaccines against the new variant. Why am I referring to the European Commission? Because the purchase contracts were made at that level. Belgium follows the European information collection in the Steering Board, which supervises the Joint Procurement Agreement of the joint purchases. The European Commission therefore has a continuous dialogue with vaccine producers such as Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson. The first more reliable neutralisation studies are expected in the short term, but these are studies that study only the effect of virus neutralising antibodies. Steven Van Gucht has already mentioned that. In the short term, therefore, we will have studies on the effect on antibodies. At least as important in preventing severe covid is the effect of variants on the T4 and T8 memory cells. Those tests are currently being carried out by the firms. Ultimately, we hope to gain more insight from observational studies on patients from South Africa, for example, and probably other countries as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u29	Mrs Taquin, when we were dealing with the delta variant, studies included the United Kingdom gave very important insights into our vaccination strategy in the context of the delta variant. If a variant adjustment is needed, the feedback we are now getting from Pfizer at the European level teaches that it should be possible to make such adjustments by March 2022. This is also the case in the contract between Pfizer and the European Commission. A similar clause was also agreed with Moderna. I am talking about the contract to which Belgium has acceded. A possible adaptation to the variant is thus included, but a final decision on this will depend on scientific research that is still ongoing. The final decision will be taken at European level. I think we will have that decision in the short term, but I cannot anticipate it. Mrs Taquin, in this sense, I trust the established contract, which obliges the industry – in this case Pfizer and Moderna – to make adjustments and adjustments if necessary. They have the scientific capacity to do so. Decisions will therefore take place quite quickly, but account must also be taken of the delay in production, which may be boring in terms of time. Indeed, we will not have all of this in the next three months. So I'm going back to one of the things I said. And Mr. Van Gucht can correct me from a scientific point of view. Even if we know that adapted vaccines may be produced and available, in the meantime, to be really sure – het zekere voor het elevenkere nemen – I think we need to use the booster to secure our situation. I have asked the Higher Council of Health and the Vaccination Task Force for an opinion as to whether it is appropriate to change slightly the time interval between the basic vaccination and the booster which is normally given two months after the Janssen vaccine, four months after the AstraZeneca vaccine and six months after the Pfizer and the Moderna vaccine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u30	I have spoken for a long time, but I thought it would be useful to clarify the questions that have been asked in this debate. I propose that Mr Van Gucht supplement me, including on waste water. I would suggest, Mrs Gijbels, that Mr Van Gucht is also picking that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u31	Thank you, Minister. I will immediately take the latter, concerning the adaptation of the vaccines to new variants. It makes sense that firms are working on that. People don't have the luxury of waiting. We have to be careful not to chase the variants every time. We have to look further ahead. Suppose the vaccine is now adapted to the omicron variant, although I think it is right that we should start with it, because we never know how to do so, it may not be available for another three months at the earliest, when we may have had our omikron wave by then. If omikron really is as contagious as some projections show, then that vaccine will only come in when omikron has already done his thing. This is also a risk that we will run a number of more times. I believe that we need to develop a different strategy for this. What one aims with a vaccine is that one stays about in the middle of 'the immunological folder', so that one gets an immunity that is wide enough to neutralize a wide range of variants. So far, it's worked pretty well. With the original vaccine, which is still based on the Chinese strain, we had good efficacy against alpha, beta, gamma and also delta. There were certainly differences, but they were still acceptable. Hospital records show that these vaccines are still well protected. So we have to be somewhere in the middle of the possible variations, I think that's a better strategy in the longer term and that's how we have to think. One can choose a strain that holds somewhere in the middle, but one can also consider making combinations of different variants that cover almost the spectrum. However, we have to learn the spectrum gradually. With the omicron variant, we probably have a different end of the spectrum now. Theoretically, we already have an idea about how much larger the spectrum can be, but I think that one has to reason further in that sense, because the variants follow each other very quickly at the moment. That's because we're still in the pandemic and not in an endemic situation. This evolves very quickly and one cannot keep chasing it. Apart from that, I think it is important to bet on that. What about the protein vaccines? I think it is right that Belgium should also order and order those protein vaccines, especially for those who are allergic to RNA vaccines, especially polyethylene glycol, a certain component of RNA vaccines. For the sake of clarity, that allergic reaction is rare, it concerns very few people, but it seems to me good to have an alternative for them. The protein vaccines seem to be performing well, actually just like the RNA vaccines. Sometimes I notice some resistance to RNA in people and they have more confidence in the protein vaccine, but in my opinion that is unfounded. Nevertheless, it is good to keep a portfolio of alternatives open. A question was also asked about the mechanism. Why are three doses of the vaccine better than two doses? I think there are two aspects. First, if you receive a third dose, the antibodies start to rise again. After several months, the number of antibodies falls, but the third dose results in the number of antibodies going back up to five to tenfold. This will probably only be a temporary effect, but the higher the values, the greater the chance of efficacy against a more abnormal variant. This protein always contains parts that are recognized, although it is often only a small fraction of the antibodies. If we push the totality of the antibodies into the altitude, then we also get enough minor antibodies that are still working. So it's just an increase in the effect of the antibodies. There is also a second mechanism, which is an argument for not boostering too quickly. In a way one wants to give the immune system a little rest and then stimulate it, because there is a whole ripening process behind it. We know that the immune system can materate, mature further. This is usually accompanied by greater diversification in responses. With an additional dose of the same vaccine, the response may be wider than it used to be. Sometimes one can even provoke a response against a variant that is not in the vaccine and that has never been encountered, but which has been achieved by the maturation. A booster can be very useful in this respect. One does not necessarily need to insert the new variant in order to get a broader response. That's the idea that's behind it. The advice to shorten the interval between the second and the third doses should come from the Supreme Health Council. If that interval is a little longer, perhaps the stimulation can be made more effective. As for testing in the light of the subvariant with and without S dropout, a very technical given, we were lucky that the omicron variant initially came with such a S dropout. That made it a little easier for us to recognize him quickly in the lab. But the S dropout is not a necessary condition. Normally, if one wants to characterize a variant, one usually goes to a second round of testing, the sequencing. One can always do that. Dropout or no dropout, one does the sequencing of the steel and then one knows exactly which variant is in it. Because the omicron variant often has that S dropout, it is a bit easier, because with certain PCR tests one can immediately see in the first round that it may be about omikron, because instead of three positive signals one only gets two. That is a red flag, a flashing light that could be the virus in the steel and that it should certainly be referred to the second round of testing. If it turns out that a subvariant is starting to circulate that does not have the S dropout, one does not take that into account and will automatically proceed to the second round and do the sequencing. In fact, in the beginning we got a small gift from that variant, as he gave such a specific signal. That doesn't happen with all PCR tests, by the way. About one in four labs use a PCR test that allows to recognize the S dropout. That's pure coincidence. We were just lucky to do that. For example, the delta variant doesn't have that S dropout. Our surveillance doesn't require that dropout. We can also pick up this variant without that dropout. We have baseline surveillance. This means that we randomly collect 5% to 10% of all positive samples in Belgium and sequence, as random and representative as possible, to know what is circulating. At the moment that is still mainly delta. Soon there will be granola samples in between. It is therefore 5 to 10% of the positive samples. It can be said that this is not enough to pick up a rare variant. That's right. If it is very rare, it will not be picked up immediately. However, we must not forget that sequencing is very expensive. That's very cumbersome, that's an expensive process. 5 to 10 % is not min. We come from 20,000 infections a day. We are now at about 15 or 16,000. So we are talking about 1,500 sequencings a day. That's a lot, that's a very expensive operation. It'll teach us something. We can see the great evolutions. That's baseline surveillance. It's representative. It shows us the broad lines of what's circulating. We don't just depend on that. We also have an active surveillance system. That's where we sequence very closely. For example, someone comes in from South Africa, tests positive with a PCR test, dropout or no dropout, he gets sequenced. Then we choose to be targeted. It is not just anyone, we already have a hunch, there is already a higher probability that this omikron can be. So we're sequencing it for sure. That's what's happening now. If people know it's a high-risk contact of someone who has omikron, they're going to sequence it. These are more than 30 confirmed cases that we already have. They're mostly picked up that way. However, it is not conclusive in any case. It is almost impossible to pick up very rare variants immediately. One has to sequence almost everything. Belgium can do its homework very well, but we are in Europe and in the world. The main problem is that there are still a lot of countries that are barely or not sequencing. There are also major differences within the European Union. We should look at Eastern Europe. Although they are very strongly encouraged to use as much as possible on sequencing, there are European funds for this, there are considerable differences. We do not get enough information from some countries. It's the countries that give us information that often colors red on the map. They're usually the better students. That remains a problem and we will not solve it in Belgium by increasing our sequencing capacity even further. I think it is more important to encourage other countries to make that effort at the same level. There are also countries that do that fantastic, even better than Belgium, but generally Belgium is among the better. We are not yet as complete as the United Kingdom or Denmark, but we certainly are among the better students when we look at the number of samples we sequence. Our baseline surveillance isn't perfect, but I certainly don't think they're undersized. As far as waste water is concerned, that is a good point. At the moment that is not possible, but we are working to find out how much genetic material from the coronavirus is in the wastewater. This gives us an idea about the general circulation of the virus in a city, a municipality or an area for which that waste water is representative. In principle, it would be possible to determine the sequences as well, but that is not so obvious. It is happening in some countries and this methodology is being worked on, but it has to be realized that it will only be noticed if this variant begins to spread very widely. If only 1% or 2% of the contamination in that region is involved, it will not be picked up in the waste water. That's not sensitive enough. Rather it serves to study the great dynamics of time, but to pick up a rare thing, it will never be sufficiently sensitive. The method is very interesting and I fully support it. They're working hard on it, too. However, I would not expect this to be the way to pick up something rare. There was a question about age distribution among the omikron patients in South Africa. A signal has been given that many young people are infected and are also in hospital, even children. Especially as far as those children are concerned, I think it is too early to draw epidemiological and medical conclusions. We should also remember that in Belgium we are also dealing with hospitalisations of young children every day, because between 6% and 7% of the admissions concern young children with the delta variant. These are usually mild cases, which go to the hospital as a precaution, for example when they develop high fever, and which are allowed to leave the hospital after two or three days. It is very rare that such a child ends up on intensive care and dies. The 6 to 7 percent are often the youngest children. The same is established in South Africa. However, it is still too early to determine whether there is anything special going on and whether it is related to the omicron variant. The same applies to older age groups. Older people are the preferred people who have been vaccinated in South Africa. Nevertheless, they do not reach our Belgian vaccination rate. It is also too early to say anything about this, except that most infections have occurred to young people so far. I think this has a lot to do with the contacts. Younger people have a lot more contacts anyway. The first outbreaks occurred in a student population at universities. The number of contacts there is many times greater than the average 70s or 80s. So I think there is already an important explanation. For the rest, it is too early to say much about it. There has also been talk of self-testing and testing strategy. What about self-tests and antigen tests and their effectiveness with regard to the omicron variant? We need more data, but the first results I've seen are encouraging, because the tests are working. These are often very limited and preliminary studies, but we can see that the antigen tests can pick up omikron and that a nice signal is visible. The two stripes come through very nicely. That's also what I expected, because the antigen tests recognize the nucleocapside antigen of the virus. It's not about the spike protein or protrusion that contains a lot of mutations, it's about a protein that's inside the virus and that's better preserved, even with omikron. There are some mutations, but I do not think enough to ensure that such an antigen test or self-test will no longer work. So it seems logical to me that they should continue to work. The first results I have seen are encouraging. This will certainly be further studied, but for the time being it looks good. I have also been asked whether the current testing strategy has been adapted to Omikron. However, this strategy is not ideal for the delta variant either. The fact that we have only one test, namely on Day 5, on Days 3 to 6 or a self-test on Day 4, and people are expected to remain in quarantine until then, is an operational decision to remove the pressure from the general practitioners. That is a very understandable reason. When the field cannot follow, something must be done about the strategy. Is that ideal? No, it's not. The previous strategy, which was tested as soon as possible after high risk contact, followed by a second test on day 7, is much better. The non-vaccinator remained in quarantine and the vaccinated person was allowed to come out of quarantine. We can say that if we really want to stop omikron and if it is true that this variant causes infections very easily, it is also not ideal for vaccinated people with only two doses or even with natural contamination that they should not be quarantined after high risk contact. The virus can spread easily. So, no, the strategy hasn't really been adapted to really control things. However, we must also pay attention to this. It will focus mainly on the question of what the impact of omikron will be on serious illness and on our hospital occupation. When it comes mainly to mild infections, these are not the infections that we are constantly awake to. That is the case if these infections predict what will happen in the hospitals. To stop transmission, the current testing strategy is better than doing nothing at all. However, it is certainly not ideal, but that is equally true for the delta variant. I would have told you exactly the same thing about the delta variant. With regard to virus inhibitors, there is the already mentioned molnupiravir, Pfizer protease inhibitor and further remdesivir, which is already being used in hospitals. We're still waiting on dates. I haven't seen any studies yet. However, based on my knowledge of viruses, I do not expect a major problem at first sight. With those virus inhibitors, the risk of resistance isn't that high. You can see that these virus inhibitors usually act in places of the virus that are fairly well preserved. This applies to remdesivir, a polymerase, it applies to molnupiravir and also to Pfizer protease inhibitor. So I think the odds of Omikron getting away from this are relatively low. I'm waiting for data because I haven't seen any evidence yet, but I suspect these virus inhibitors will continue to work. It remains an open question how well the virus inhibitors will work, also against delta. About molnupiravir, the company initially said that the pill provides 50% protection against hospitalisation when taken on time. That has already fallen to 30%. We will also have to wait and see how much protection is going to be on the ground, because in reality the effectiveness is usually lower because the conditions in which medicines are taken are not ideal. I'm glad this medicine is on its way, but we still have to wait and see how well it will work on the ground. However, I hope that the efficacy in omikron will be similar, since it acts at other sites of the virus, usually better preserved parts. There was a question about the patents. Minister Vandenbroucke replied. That is a political question for a large part. I am personally in favour of vaccinating the whole world as soon as possible. We will all benefit from that. The chances of such a rapid sequence of variants will be reduced. There will always be variants, even if everyone is vaccinated, but they may not follow each other as soon as possible. We'll get some more breathing space and time. Maybe patents should be lifted for that. I'm not a specialist in that. If you give the DRC a patent, for example, you don't solve the problem yet. The production of the vaccines is very complex, more complex than, for example, making a virus inhibitor. That's pure chemistry. Making a vaccine is a biochemical process. That's a little more complex, harder to control. This requires a lot of know-how and knowledge transfer. That's very important. The question is whether the removal of a patent is the best strategy. Should the technology be licensed? For example, other countries and manufacturers are supported in making these vaccines and knowledge transfer is also carried out. It is not my expertise, but vaccines must be available as much as possible to all countries in the world, primarily for those countries themselves, but also for us. As far as the rapid tests are concerned, there is a very amalgamation of brands that is offered. There are also great differences in quality between these tests, including in performance, sensitivity and specificity. There's gotta be a gap there. We do not really give a good guide to people what are the good tests now and which are better not to be bought. If there's a CE label at the moment, it's okay. The manufacturer does a study and gives the results, but I would prefer it to be examined independently and to provide guidance on the reliable and less reliable tests. I've already bought my own tests myself. Sometimes I had to buy because there weren't any others that I thought weren't the best buy in advance. It would be good if there were a better guide.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u32	Thank you, Minister and Mr Van Gucht, for your answers. As long as there is no absolute certainty about the nature and impact of the new variant, absolute caution is required. We must dare to ask ourselves the extent to which third countries are properly registered and reported. Especially in the light of the fact that we are in the fourth wave and in the light of the current corona figures, it is of the utmost importance to do everything possible to prevent or at least slow down the entry of this new variant as far as possible. I hear from the Minister that a number of efforts have been made to this end, including at European level, but I am still a little hungry when I receive these shocking reports in the press about travellers who are still easily getting here. There have recently been reports that travellers from South Africa have entered our country quite easily. I hope that this will be closely monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u33	Madam President, Mrs Creemers will speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u34	Thank you, Professor Van Gucht and Minister. This is an example of what Mr Gijbels meant by the technical session we approved in the COOVID-19 Committee. We have had a number of technical sessions with only one representative of Sciensano and I have always been hungry. You two can complement each other and I now feel that we have received all the necessary answers today, for which I sincerely thank you. Minister, I support you where you say that preparations for the Consultation Committee on 22 December should be about the omikron variant and how to prepare for it. I'm probably annoyed just like you yellow and green and all the colors of the rainbow on the offer that has begun about what to open again after December 22nd. I hope that we will put the focus back on the essence: how do we deal with the situation now and with what awaits us? Finally, I would like to say a few words about patents and that we will not be safe until everyone is safe. I understand Professor Van Gucht's question as to whether it should be done through patents. It's a very complicated situation. The goal we have in mind is mass sharing of knowledge, something that is not happening now. We need to find a way to push or force the companies that are now working on vaccines to do massive knowledge sharing. The patents seem logical, but how are we gonna do it? You shouldn't answer that, but I'm left with the question. The Omikron variant learns once again that we will not be safe until the whole world is safe. We must continue the debate on how we can achieve a mass sharing of knowledge if the companies do not do it voluntarily. I'm gonna be okay with that, but we're probably gonna talk about that another time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u35	Minister, I am pleased that you say that science is doubting, debating, a process of progressive understanding and that we need to adapt our conclusions in terms of measures. In stark contrast, politics stands. The scientific insight changes, but the political insight remains the same. That's extremely unfortunate. That's what I wanted to say. Thank you, Mr van Gucht, for your clear explanation. You have raised a number of questions with me. You're saying the vaccines need to be adapted to the omicron variant, so we're lagging behind. Can you make a comparison with the flu vaccine? From what I remember from what I read and hear, the flu vaccine is also constantly grafted onto the virus of the previous year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u36	The flu viruses are less likely to follow each other. In case of flu, we have one epidemic per year, mostly in the period January, February and March. We can rely on what happened six months before in the southern hemisphere, because flu viruses usually circulate around the world. When we enter winter, we can find out which were the dominant flu varieties during the winter season in the southern hemisphere, six months earlier than our winter season. Our flu vaccine can be adapted to those variants. There's more time in between, so an adapted vaccine can be made. Even with that extra space of time, sometimes it's still very difficult. Mistakes can be made, for example if the correct variant does not enter the vaccine, resulting in a year in which the vaccine works less. However, we always see a certain effectiveness, it's never black and white, it's never on-off, but if the match is less, the flu vaccine will work a little less. So there's more time, it doesn't follow each other so fast. In the case of the coronavirus, the variants follow each other very quickly. We are still in the delta wave, while the next variant is already beginning to circulate. The reason is that we're in a pandemic and the variants follow each other too quickly. There are also too many differences in vaccination rates worldwide, which also plays a role. With the flu, it's a little slower, which makes it easier to anticipate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u37	Thank you. I have an additional question about when the virus will become endemic. You say the virus isn't endemic yet, which you just repeated. From when can we call corona endemic?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u38	To speak of an endemic situation, we need to have some sort of stable, low circulation of the virus, and we're more likely to get a picture of it as if it were flu. In the case of flu there is very little circulation during a certain period of the year and in the autumn and winter period we see repercussions. What is important is that they are getting smaller and smaller at some point, if we can count on a broad basic immunity in the population. I avoid the word 'group immunity' because that may imply too much that there is no more virus circulation, which we cannot expect, but that the care system will not get into any more trouble. We're not there yet, because the waves are too high and our care system can't handle that. Our hope is that, with the passing of time, with the succession of the waves, those waves are getting smaller and that in the long run we can let them pass like a flu wave under relatively normal conditions. Mind you, a flu wave is also heavy, because the care moans, but it is not necessary to close departments or create extra IC beds in a flu wave. This is a temporary adjustment and it is still manageable. When will that period come? Is that next year? Is that two years from now? I'm afraid to say that. The fact is that our basic immunity is always getting wider and better. Every time we give a booster, we stimulate it. People are also exposed in a natural way. All this contributes to improving basic immunity. However, people will always get sick. People will continue to die. That's what we see with the flu. The question is when covid becomes manageable without having to switch to crisis mode. That will come, but I can't tell you exactly what winter season that will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u40	Mr. Minister, Professor Van Gucht, thank you for your answers. Professor Van Gucht, I welcome your statement about the self-tests, because I also have concerns about the quality control of the self-tests. I think we really need to work on that. Hence my appeal to the Minister. Make sure that what people buy is of good quality and that one can rely on it. Of course we do not have a 100 % guarantee with the self-tests, but this does indicate a direction for people's behaviour. A lot of people buy a test before they visit their grandmother or come together with friends. We're also giving the message to do that. In that case, self-tests on the market must have the required quality. The same applies to the languages in the package leaflet. You have said that you will signal this to the FAGG, but these self-tests should actually be withdrawn from the market immediately. If not used correctly, it can lead to false negative results and thus spread the virus. This also applies to the test policy, which we had a discussion about yesterday in plenary. Professor Van Gucht says it's not ideal. As politicians, we must indeed look for compromises, but then too, there are several possibilities. There is still room for pharmacies to perform rapid antigen tests. They are also passed on to Sciensano. In this way, you can bridge the first day, when a PCR test had to be performed earlier, to perform the PCR test on the third, fourth or fifth day. Right now, you're focusing on self-testing. This is very good for care workers and for people who are frequently eligible, but that is not a solution for everyone. It is very good that the virus inhibitors have been ordered, and we do not see any objection to bilateral contracts which overlap in a European joint procurement or against Beneluxa, but do not wait too long, Minister. We really need to be prepared. Minister, as far as vaccines and patents are concerned, I am more in favour of licensing being shared between companies. In the government's communication, I quote the statement that patents or formulas will now be broken. You do know that Moderna did a patent pledge, don't you? Moderna's IP is therefore available, but the aim should be to identify the technological possibilities needed to produce the vaccine. This communication gives me the feeling that your colleague Kitir has pimped out some of her powers there. It's not about cracking a formula. The formula is available and one must now be able to pour it into production. Finally, Minister, I have not heard an answer to my repeated question as to what your plan is about the resilience of care. It is really very important that this should be done. Professor Van Gucht has said that the epidemic is coming in waves and will continue to come in waves and we need to make those waves manageable so that we do not have to go constantly into crisis mode. Well, by focusing on care, maybe we won't need that crisis mode. As far as the Consultation Committee is concerned, I will pass that on to my colleague, Frieda Gijbels. For our group, working with scenarios, entering the coronabarometer and really looking forward, far beyond the next three months, is perfect. But in order to relax or not to relax measures, we need data. Where's the biggest transmission? In which sectors are workers or customers exposed to the virus? On the basis of these dates, we can indeed decide where to relax or tighten up. I believe that should have been the guiding principle and should have always been.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u41	Madam President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u42	Normally, not directly. In principle, it's not your turn yet. The MR Group introduced a question. Ms. Taquin has a right of reply and there is no second person to join.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u43	I thank the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u44	Wait, Mrs. Taquin. It's not yours yet, either. There's confusion. I just gave the floor to Mr Bacquelaine to find out why he was raising his hand. But Mrs Nawal Farih has the floor on the agenda we are following.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u45	When the MR's turn comes, I will give the floor to Mr Bacquelaine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u46	All right. It's like Ecolo-Groen. Mrs Farih has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u47	Thanks to the professor and the minister. I sincerely believe that we should avoid the bidding, both within the political landscape and within different sectors. The only solution will be to work with the barometer, because we can look forward with it. I was a little shocked by the fact that there are meta-exercises, but apparently they do not provide sufficient basis, if I understand it correctly. Can these meta-exercises be shared with Parliament? I thought I heard that Pedro Facon had proposed them to the Consultative Committee and that this has given rise to intense debates, but is it possible to get access through Parliament to how these exercises are made exactly? After all, we will need that basis to mobilise people to comply with the rules. If we can scientifically and logically demonstrate why certain rules are being implemented, people will be much more motivated to continue to fight, because we are not out that fast. I'm gonna stick with this, but I'm dying to hear that the barometer is being worked on. I hope that he will not be too complex and will be limited to up to four phases. After all, it is complicated enough for everyone today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u48	Mr Van Gucht, Minister, thank you for the answers you have given us today. I find the debate particularly interesting and instructive. I wanted to fully agree with the minister when he talks about the mask and the ventilation. I think that, although the public is obviously aware of the value of the mask and of a good ventilation, it must be kept in mind. All information channels must be used to recall that mask/ventilation torque is essential to simply reduce the number of contaminations. Beyond the decrease in the number of contaminations, it seems to me that it is really important to decrease also – this is the primary objective – the saturation of our hospitals and the number of hospitalizations. For this, the booster is obviously an indispensable and interesting weapon. On this point, minister, you did not mention it, but I wanted to know what the booster place is for you in the context of the vaccination obligation, particularly of the health care staff? At a time when the omicron variant may develop, it seems to me that our nursing homes, our nursing institutions, and all places of contact with the health care system must be preserved to the maximum. The booster must therefore, no doubt, be taken into account in the vaccination of healthcare workers. I don't know what place you have in the booster as part of the immunisation obligation of health care personnel. I believe that this issue needs to be addressed. I have another comment on a subject that we have talked about very little today, namely monoclonal antibodies. Perhaps it would be useful to hold an in-depth debate on this subject one day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u49	It would be useful to know the state of development of analyses and publications on monoclonal antibodies. They clearly appear to be highly effective in reducing serious forms and when used very early. I am surprised that we were talking relatively little about it. I think we need to look at this in a little more detail. Finally, I hear that there is again a question of patents. Omicron demonstrates this: maximum vaccination must be ensured in all the countries of the world, and that remains an objective that we share. However, it must be remembered, beyond the dogmatic and ideological aspect of the subject, that no vaccine manufacturer is improvised. Those who suggest that it would be enough to lift patents to solve the problems of global vaccination abuse the credulity of those they target. Technology transfer takes time even when it is voluntary. Beyond the manufacture of the vaccine in all countries of the world, it must then be distributed. We need a distribution system. Perhaps with NGOs and all humanitarian organizations, there would be a need to establish systems for the optimal distribution and administration of vaccines, when available in developing countries. I wanted to make this comment in relation to the debate on the vaccine because I see this debate coming back a little bit. There is a need to remain concerned about widespread vaccination, but this requires a partnership with pharmaceutical companies that have repeatedly stated that they are ready to work on technology transfer, while ensuring a quality of vaccine. It can only be considered that some countries are only entitled to lower quality vaccines.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u50	I note that some Members replied instead of those who had introduced the questions. We are in a topical debate but questions are a personal right of the Member and, in principle, it is the Member himself who has to answer. We made an exception today, it's not very serious. I simply wanted to point it out because it should not become a habit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u51	Mr President, I have nothing special to say, except that I also find this topical debate extremely instructive. I would also like to thank the Minister for his very precise response to the current situation with regard to the Novavax vaccine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u52	Mr. Minister, Mr. Van Gucht, you talked a lot about uncertainty. There is at least one certainty: we are witnessing a real race against the clock to fight against these variants. One of the weapons we have to do this is sequencing. That is why I have been struck enough to hear that some countries are not doing this work at all, so much so that European funds must be made available to stimulate this process in those countries. Is that enough? Is there not a fear, undoubtedly political, in the head of these countries, of being pointed out if they were to observe the emergence of a new variant in their territory? You also recalled the importance of barrier gestures, including ventilation. I am very happy to hear you say that, Minister, because you refer, in your general policy note, to this famous ventilation plan for the course of 2022. I hope we get it long before we do. There is also, of course, the appropriate vaccine. It is important to remember that pharmaceutical companies are obliged to adapt their vaccines to different variants. It's a contractual obligation. However, they must then be registered, produced and delivered. Is it permissible to wait for these vaccines for the month of March or much later? At the same time, the third dose should be administered without waiting for these adapted vaccines. The Novavax vaccine will help us. I understand that an opinion has been sought from the Higher Council of Health on what period of time should be observed between the second and third doses. Still, the third dose is already given without ensuring that this long enough time is respected. When was this opinion sought? Will it speed up the administration of this third dose? The population must be reassured, even those who have already been vaccinated via the first and second doses. The latest interuniversity barometer indicates that only seven out of ten Belgians among the double-vaccinated are ready to receive this booster dose. So there's a lot of work to be done on awareness, including influenza. Finally, I will conclude with the vaccination component in the world. I hear that it is not Belgium that is holding back. In the absence of restraint, Belgium may have to play this role as a driving force in a reflection on the temporary lifting of patents. However, I would like to point out that this is the official position of the European Parliament, since a resolution to this effect was adopted almost six months ago last June. In addition, consideration must be given to the transfer of production mechanisms. Belgium must play this role as a driving force in this regard. In any case, I invite you to work in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u53	Minister, Professor Van Gucht, the combination is indeed an added value. The policy must be scientifically steered. Mrs Creemers mentioned it earlier, and I follow her in that: it is probably the fault of every politician. Sometimes we call very quickly for relaxation. We have seen in the past that this is not always sensible. We need to make decisions based on science, which is important. This combination indicates that importance. I am also curious about the Consultation Committee on 22 December. Of course, I hope that there will be facilitations, but I would once again like to call for scientific insights to be used in particular in the decisions that will be taken there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u54	Gentlemen, thank you for your different answers. Here are some thoughts and suggestions, if I may. All that can be done to maximize leverage, anticipate and minimize a potential next wave is, in my view, fundamental. This is what we have never done until now since the beginning of the crisis. In relation to this, are there any levers that we can now strengthen and use in an accelerated manner among the weapons at our disposal? The answer is yes. With respect to the breakdown, minister, I hear you answer me kindly every time that there is a bill. That's very good, but what I expect is that we're doing an effective ventilation in schools. We lost over a year. However, it is known that the virus circulates very quickly, that the children are at this stage unvaccinated and that, moreover, the wearing of the mask is always more complicated for them, as well as the respect of the correct barrier gestures. What we need is operational on the ground. This should be done rather than a bill – or in addition to it. I really invite you to put this on the agenda of the next Codeco. We have to take this issue by the horns. It is a major strategy against covid, not only for the coming month but for every month to come. Do you want to interrupt me?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u55	Yes, because I want to point out that I have put the issue of ventilation in schools on the agenda of each Codeco for months! So I agree with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u56	Minister, that's good, but excuse me for being a pragmatic, I'm interested in efficiency on the ground. However, we are far from the minimum required.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u57	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u58	We agree on the objective. You know, I'm a little Member of Parliament and I'm even willing to take care of it, but so many initiatives can be taken, like a national public procurement contract to launch major construction sites and buy purifiers to be made available to schools. On the ground, it is impossible for the French Community to play the notary by asking the schools to manage themselves. Major work is needed in this regard. That seems possible to me. In terms of public health for the population as a whole, we will gain in quality. Similarly, we will gain from it financially, as we will recover from elsewhere what we have spent in this area. If I may, all the boosters before the end of January are good to take. We have solid international scientific data to validate a third dose of Pfizer and Moderna in the fourth month. I hear your operational reluctance, but let me remind you that the situation is such that we must choose a strategy and adapt the operational to it. Yes, we need to increase the lines. Yes, we need to increase the vaccination centres. Yes, too, Minister, I think we need to be able to vaccinate from the fourth month, to go much faster. Finally, on Codeco, I already hear – we are a few days after the last Codeco (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u59	Thank you for slowly closing, Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u60	Mr. President, I promise. The minister interrupted me – but he didn't do it. Mr Minister, we already hear some ministers saying that we have to let go of this or that or that we must not let go. Can I perhaps argue for a change in management strategy, which is much more soothing, more effective, more concerted, with scientists, but also between policies? Let us stop worrying people repeatedly and making false promises every time during the period before Codeco. It seems to me that this would help to appease and, above all, also increase the confidence of citizens after each Codeco. It's a small demand I'm making, because I think managing a crisis more effectively, it also goes through it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u61	[[Mr Minister, I have heard what you are saying about the lifting of patents, which is widely discussed here, in the context of the omicron variant.]] I noted, "We can't be a brake on this." Mr Minister, we are moving very slowly, but we are, today, a brake on this. The government and Parliament are a hindrance in this regard. I would remind you that there is a motion for a resolution of the PS which has been emptied of meaning to become a compromise. I appeal to my colleagues, who are in the majority, to go in the other direction and join us in the act by voting on our motion for a resolution, which we wish to put to the vote as soon as possible. Mr Van Gucht, the code must be available to produce the vaccine. These countries are in demand. Médecins Sans Frontières has made a list of companies that are capable of producing this vaccine and are waiting for licences. The latter are given only to the dropper, which is insufficient. As a result, we are complicit in a crime against humanity. Minister, with regard to the Codeco, I am shocked to hear you announce today that we will continue to impose the wearing of the mask for children. That's what I understood when you said that there would be no relaxation and that the mask for children was effective against the omicron variant. Children are now victims of the catastrophic testing and tracing policy in our schools! There is no ventilation in schools. The first thing to do is to put order in this rubbish between the PSEs and the tracing. I'm a field doctor and we have testimony every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u62	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u63	As far as I'm concerned, I've always been very consistent. I've always argued for testing, tracing and isolation. These are three keys that are insufficiently used in our country. This is why the infection is beyond our control. The restaurants said they wanted to be able to close later. You are already announcing that this will not be possible. However, studies have been carried out. With regard to contamination in restaurants, like other colleagues, I would like to know what is actually possible or not. As far as quarantine and tracing are concerned, I have heard your answer, Mr Van Gucht. In fact, the current strategy, including for the delta variant, is not at all ideal. So it is not, as you have explained, either, for the omicron variant, in any case until the population has received the third dose. Improvements must therefore be made. To do this, I have two leads. First, the increased use of antigenic and rapid tests or self-tests to increase capacity without overloading laboratories and treating physicians. These tests need to be made much more available. In some countries, including the United Kingdom, people can go to the pharmacy to get a test when and as much as they want. These tests are distributed to the population. Why not be inspired by this practice? Secondly, for quarantine to be respected, the income of both employees and self-employed must be guaranteed. These elements are essential if we are to improve tracing and ensure that quarantine is respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u64	I'm surprised and, at the same time, I don't know if I should be! In fact, the PTB is opposed to any difficult measures, such as wearing the mask by children. The PTB runs behind the challenge. The PTB is against restrictive measures in the Horeca. This must be explained to the health care staff! We must be able to choose and dare to defend difficult measures instead of running behind any challenge. I won't say anything anymore, but it's really your trade mark!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u65	We have always been very consistent. Things were done without wearing the mask by the children. This has been done, but I am sorry: it is the children who pay the price of mismanagement, as it is the case also of the nursing staff who pay the price of mismanagement. It is you and the nine ministers who are unable to get along and who are fighting before each Codeco! What the PTB says is that solidarity must be implemented. When I mention the income that must be guaranteed in case of quarantine, it is a solidarity measure that can be taken immediately. When I mention the need to improve testing, the measurement is easy to adopt quickly. A few days ago, we put to the vote the proposal to give two self-tests per Belgian per week, for example. Our proposals are constructive, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u66	I thank the Minister and Professor Van Gucht for the answers. Minister, I would like to say a few words about what you said at the beginning of your answers. You indicated that with the omikron variant we are facing an uncertain period, but that we must have confidence in science. I believe that scientific communication is very important in this respect. I've talked about that before. I also think that Professor Van Gucht has a very good role to play in this, and that he is very clear about this information. You indicated that we need solidarity. I agree with that, too, but what you keep forgetting to say is that we also need preparation. That is what I think is missing every time, and that is the role of the government, which you seem to sidestep over and over again. It is not just about science or solidarity; it is also about being prepared. Why can we not discuss and develop the various scenarios with the various actors and sectors in advance, Minister? We could put together packages that could be deployed instead of having to wait for the Consultative Committee to know what comes out of the bus. That weighs very heavily, and not just mentally. It also has enormous repercussions on the economy and on care. I would therefore urge you not to lose sight of the third factor, namely preparation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic637x.u67	If I am not mistaken, we can conclude the topical and urgent debate.
