ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u1	Question No 55014832C by Mr Gilles Vanden Burre is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u2	Mr. Vanden Burre apologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u3	Mr Minister, last month I asked you a few questions about the first recruitment measure, which provides for an unlimited period of basic patronage in the recruitment of a first employee. However, both the Court of Auditors and the Federal Planning Office published studies showing that this measure has insufficient effect, that some companies have improper use and that its impact on the survival of young companies remains relatively low. It is essential that the objective is not overlooked when discussing the measure. This goal is to create jobs by encouraging small businesses and entrepreneurs to recruit. Moreover, it is also a very expensive measure. We must therefore also ensure that the money is spent on measures that have an effect on job creation. In your answers to my previous questions on this matter, you indicated that you were waiting for the evaluation by the RSZ Management Committee, which was due to be completed on 31 March. On the basis of that evaluation, you promised to take action. In the meantime, what conclusions can be drawn from the evaluation of the measure in relation to the first recruitments? How will you address the improper use of the measure? How will you try to prevent abuse of the measure? What proposals do you have for that? Have you been able to submit them to the government, or do you still have to do so? When will you come to Parliament with this? In what way will you adjust the target group reduction scheme for the first employees? Do you also consider a time limitation of the measure? Do you consider limiting the measure on the basis of the size of the company? Do you consider restrictions on wages for which the measure could be applied? For example, top wages could be excluded, with a large number of abuses being identified. The evaluation of the Court of Auditors and the Federal Planning Office also shows that not all employers are aware of the measure. What further steps will you take to make the measure known to a wider public?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u4	Mr President, I am sure that my group was always very critical of the reduction in the target group for the first recruitment, not because of the noble aim, but because of the modalities, which our group has always felt would lead to excessive use or even abuse of the measure. We discussed last time that the Court of Auditors and the Federal Planning Office were anything but lenient for the measure. I will not go back to that. You announced that you would have the evaluation report of the RSZ Management Committee by the end of March. My logical question is therefore what was the outcome of that evaluation. Can Members have access to this evaluation? What are the conclusions and are they consistent with the findings of the Court of Auditors and the Planning Bureau? What are the similarities and differences? What adjustment can you see in order to make the measure more effective and to improve the use of resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u5	Minister, we have already asked questions about this, but you thought it was too early to answer them at the time, because you would receive an evaluation from the RSZ at the end of March. The Court of Auditors' report found that the cost of the target discount for the first employee had increased significantly in recent years. The Court of Auditors suspected that this was mainly due to the application of the measure to higher wages; the cost per full-time equivalent of the reduction for the second to the sixth employee increased much less than the volume of work. This indicates that flat-rate reductions are more cost-efficient to stimulate employment compared to the unlimited exemption. It is of course no coincidence that at the end of 2020 I anticipated that criticism, even before the report was published, by submitting a legislative proposal in which I already proposed a wage limit equal to the wage limit for the second employee's target discount. We also debated this in plenary in December. I also tabled the proposal to the programme law by means of an amendment because I felt it was really important not to throw the child away immediately with the bath water and at the same time to prevent the improper use of higher wages. At that time, on behalf of the government, you chose to extend the measure without a wage limit and voted away my bill, while it anticipated the criticism of improper use and the absence of the wage limit. In November 2020, you asked the Management Committee of the RSZ to evaluate the existing system of reduction for the first recruitment by 31 March at the latest. Then, on the basis of that evaluation of the Management Committee, taking into account the findings and recommendations of the Court of Auditors, you would make a number of proposals to optimise the target group reduction system for the first employees with a view to an efficient and effective use of resources. What are the main findings of the evaluation of the RSZ Management Committee? What proposals do you think are useful in making the resources more efficient and effective? By what measure will you measure efficiency and effectiveness? What is the timing for the entry into force of the reformed target group reduction for the first recruitment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u6	Madam President, since the situation has already been described in detail by my colleagues, I would like to refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u7	Minister, the two most recent reports by the Court of Auditors and the Federal Planning Office are extremely critical of the rising cost of reducing social contributions in the first recruitments. The previous government granted that discount in 2016 to an unlimited amount and for an unlimited period. Since then, the cost of the measure has increased and more and more applications have been made for higher amounts per application. In addition, we find strangely that in 2018 the 20% most expensive applications received more than 40% of all discounts. These are tens of millions of euros. In at least 11 cases, this involved a wage subsidy of more than EUR 100,000 for a person with a wage above EUR 10,000. The Court of Auditors and the Federal Planning Office therefore rightly call the measure expensive, ineffective and prone to fraud. The measure now appears to be extremely unbalanced in the management of our social security and in the wage bill. How is it that such practices have not been taken into account for the purpose of reliance, as provided for in the Social Security Financing Act? Are you planning an adjustment? Can you confirm that a reduction in the social contributions reductions for the first recruitments has an adverse effect on the calculation of the future wage margin, namely a reduction in the margin for wage increases? Are you behind the mechanism or do you want to disable that effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u8	Madam President, as I have already replied to previous questions in this committee, in particular on 17 March, I asked the RSZ Management Committee on 6 November 2020 to evaluate the system of target group reductions for the first recruitments. At that committee meeting, I also indicated that, if I have that evaluation in good time, I would like to propose adjustments within the government that would enter into force from 1 July 2021. I also said that for me the content of the evaluation is more important than the timing. The Management Committee of the RSZ has entrusted a working group with the evaluation. The working group reported on a first occasion at the Management Committee meeting on 26 March. The work has not yet been completed and the working group has therefore asked for the work to be continued, as accepted by the Management Committee, with knowledge of my policy cell. On 30 April, the Working Group informed the Management Committee that significant progress had been made and that the Working Group wished to complete the evaluation as soon as possible. I am sorry that I did not receive the evaluation of the Management Committee in time, but I am aware that it is a difficult dossier and I prefer a unanimous view of the social partners on the changes needed to the system of the plus plans. That is why I am prepared to wait a little longer, even if that means that the amendments cannot enter into force on 1 July but on 1 October. That being said, it is now time to conclude. If there is no unanimous opinion of the social partners, I will make adjustments within the government myself, taking into account the findings of the Court of Auditors, the Federal Planning Office and, of course, the work of the working group within the RSZ. You will undoubtedly find that somewhat annoying, but I shall confine myself today to giving this state of affairs. So I am still waiting for the evaluation by the management committee before I come forward with a concrete proposal. As far as Mr Colebunders' specific questions are concerned, I can answer that lost contributions due to federal reductions, including the plus plans, must be properly compensated through alternative funding. For the year 2021, alternative funding is regulated through Articles 42 and 43 of the Programme Act of 20 December 2020. The amounts of the RSZ contribution reductions have an impact on the calculation of labour cost development. For the precise impact of possible adjustments of the measure on future wage margins, I should refer to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Employment, who is competent to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u9	Minister, it is of course a pity that we have not received any concrete answers today, because the management committee seems to need more time. If that can lead to a good report on the basis of which we can draw conclusions, then so be it. So we need to be patient. I agree with you that we urgently need to start preparations for the adjustments. I hope that we will get clear slopes before the summer recess, so that we know which direction the adjustments should take. This can be done on a proposal from the management committee or on a proposal from you and the government. I will ask you again about this in two months' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u10	Minister, I can only agree with Mrs Lanjri that it is a pity that there is no white smoke in this dossier yet. I agree that we need a good result, preferably a unanimous position with which the government can proceed immediately. That's the best we can hope for. The management committee is undoubtedly aware of the urgency of the matter, because in the meantime the measure continues to run, with the excesses that have been known. The longer that takes, the worse. We need to get this over with. Hopefully the work is already advanced and we do not have to postpone it for long. However, I understand that you do not intend to wait long. You already have a deadline in mind to draw up proposals within the government should an agreement fail. We will continue to follow this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u11	Mr Minister, I fully follow you when you say that the content is predicated on timing when it comes to a delay of a few months. After all, 1 July was set as a deadline. You are right, that is not an insurmountable problem. We are your ally in this, and we too consider the content to be more important. I have already said that we must address the misuse of the measure for the first employee. You must do something about using it for those higher wages because that cannot be the intention. There is, however, another point that I am not quite clear on. You have said that the deadline may be postponed to 1 October, but that you yourself will make proposals to the government if it does not go fast enough. I have nothing against that in itself. You also say that you will take into account the findings of the Court of Auditors and the Planning Bureau and the evaluation of the management committee of the RSZ. That is exactly what we are waiting for. Do you mean, then, that you distinguish between the findings of the management committee on the one hand and those that can be formulated unanimously or not on the other? Then I'd like to know the following from you. Firstly, what timing do you propose to take your own initiative? Secondly, do you already have access to or knowledge of the first part of the evaluation, namely the findings that have been made? That is, of course, the most interesting piece, and that is what you need, according to your first answer, to take initiatives yourself. In short, what date do you intend to put forward your own proposals within the government? And do you have access to the findings of the evaluation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u12	Minister, we must dare to ask whether this is the most effective and efficient measure, given the criticism of both the Court of Auditors and the National Planning Office that there is no real impact on employment. The Court of Auditors even contests the fact that this measure would result in additional employment. I understand from your reply that you will take these comments into account. In any case, the proper study of this measure is a must, even if it takes some time. We do not need to extend the measure simply because it is the case. One could also consider a return to the former objectives and the ceiling of the subsidy amount. I am also looking forward to the results of the studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u13	Minister, the first question I asked you, as a fresh Minister, here in this committee, was about social security. I told you that social security for me has been my child for 30 years and I am very concerned about it as a trade unionist. For 30 years, I've seen her burst all over the place. As an ex-worker from the automotive sector, I see social security as the engine of the car, which requires oil. In itself, that engine is leaking now. This leak is happening on all sides where you make concessions, such as storage for fat managers and that's more, which means that the whole social security system is now shaky. A leak can be closed in two ways. Either we ensure that there is a new rubber at the bottom, and we question the whole system, or we ensure that we keep systematically pouring oil at the top, and then the system may continue to leak. Then that car will keep running. Our solution is different. We question the whole system. The alternative funding and the like, the gifts you keep handing out, that can't be anymore. We have a very nice social security system. It's unique. It is also a system of solidarity which everyone can claim. However, we must ensure that the money keeps coming in and is taken away in the right places. Minister, you still have a great deal of work to do in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u14	Madam President, Mr Anseuw, I have not yet received an evaluation. In fact, I make a distinction between a unanimous opinion, which would be strong for the direction to be taken, and I would prefer that, and on the other hand, a report in which I find elements, analyses and points of view. I will take that with me, in addition to what the Planning Bureau and the Court of Auditors said and what was said here in this committee by you and others. I would therefore prefer to receive a unanimous opinion, but the absence of a unanimous opinion does not mean that there is nothing on paper as a report on the discussion of the working group of the Management Committee. You also asked about the timing. I'm afraid to put it this way, but I can give you the following. The difference between having something ready for 1 July and having something ready for 1 October, which is three months, obviously means that I should actually have that report at the beginning of the summer. I should definitely have it before we go into recess, otherwise I can't get it ready for 1 October. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u15	Mr Minister, I asked the question about timing, of course, because we do not want to see the answer to our oral questions being that we asked them too early, as happened in March. I'm asking for it for the efficiency of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u16	It's no secret, you can always ask my policy cell if it's a good time to ask a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u17	I think that's a very generous offer. The question remains, then, how this committee can take note of the recommendations once they are there. Perhaps it would be useful to agree on this, Madam President. After all, it would be very useful for the committee to be able to take note of these findings as soon as they exist. That's my final question. How do we proceed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u18	That's a good note. As soon as we have the recommendations, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in response to the questions, I do not think we can talk about discrimination in the legal sense of the term, as defined in anti-discrimination laws. After all, very different minimum amounts have existed for many years in the benefit systems, depending on the branch of social security, and even within the social assistance systems. This does not change the fact that we can be sensitive to the demand for a supplement proportional to the household (couple or single) that must live on an unemployment or disability benefit or a pension that is below the applicable poverty line. I would like to reflect with my fellow ministers on whether a specific proposal can be drawn up, but also on whether such a proposal would be supported within the government. This was not addressed in the government agreement, which is still an important compass. Nor should we forget that this government has already allocated EUR 2.2 billion (amounting in cruising speed in 2024) in addition to the envelopes of prosperity to increase the lowest social minimums. It is therefore not obvious to introduce this issue in a further way into the work of the government. This does not mean that I am not sensitive to it or that it is a subject that we will not discuss.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u20	Mr Minister, thank you for your enthusiastic response, especially since we have asked your colleagues about the idea of thinking about it. It's important to us. Even if in the legal sense there is indeed no discrimination, there is always the difficulty of the traps of the threshold effects for the very small amounts, whether they are linked to unemployment benefits or to integration income. This is indeed not in the government agreement. We recognize that this is an important compass. But my environmental group very much hopes that we can manage these tiny amounts with a holistic vision. This premium was extremely important for those who suddenly fell into precariousness because of charges that were not expected before the crisis. It is very important for us that we can then, in future debates, in future discussions, take this into account with regard to the beneficiaries of unemployment benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u21	Minister, I am also very pleased to hear you say that you are going to reflect on this proposal with your concerned colleagues. It is well known that before the crisis, many people were already struggling to make ends meet. Their situation worsened further with the covid crisis. Unfortunately, they were already precarised before. They are even more so today. I believe that no distinction should be made on the basis of the statutes. You are talking about measures that can help them. That's positive. I also welcome the resources already put in place. It's already a very good thing. I am very pleased that you intend to put this on the government table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u22	Minister, it is well known that COOVID-19 has a lasting effect on health for a number of people. We have already discussed this extensively in the Committee on Health. You also said at the time that a policy must be put in place to provide an answer and that doctors must also be recognised in it. My questions today are about the influx into the disability allowance. After a year I wonder whether there is already a registration or whether persons receiving disability benefits or invalidity benefits have had a corona infection? Is there a systematic record of how many new disabled persons and disabled persons enter health insurance as a result of COVID-19? Are there any indications that the number of people with disability benefits will increase significantly as a result of this pandemic? Do you intend to take specific measures to promote the reintegration into the labour market of persons who have been long-term ill as a result of COOVID-19?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u23	Mrs van Peel, I am more convinced every day that the problem of long-term COOVID-19 is serious. On the one hand, there is more attention at international level, based on observations, facts and literature. On the other hand, it can be assumed that this is a fairly large group of people. It is also typically about consequences that prevent people from functioning properly at work, while it is perhaps possible to get things done with prevention, care and adjustments. Unfortunately, it fits in well with the broader picture on which you are asking me questions. What are we going to do to give people who are long-term ill more perspective in the field of work? I think that your colleague, Mr Anseuw, or perhaps you, has said a little chatty but not entirely wrong, that I remain very broad and general in my public statements on this matter. That is also true, because I want to seek a consensus within the government on a precise and sound approach. That is still the case today, but I think that is an important file. Above all, I would like to give you a number of figures today. They still go in different directions. I have an overview for 2019 and for 2020 to the month of October of certificates of incapacity for work submitted to the insurance institutions, in which we will indeed have a separate designation for certificates of incapacity for work due to COOVID-19 in 2020. From this we learn that when there is a peak in infections, there is also a peak in certificates of incapacity for work because of COOVID-19. However, other movements are also seen. Let me give you some figures. For example, in March 2019 a total of 50,772 certificates of incapacity for work were submitted to the VIs. In March 2020 this was about a doubling, namely 102,130. On the one hand, this doubling had to do with a strong peak in qualifications referring to COOVID-19, i.e. 21.067, but on the other hand, with a sharp increase in other qualifications, namely 79.813. So you will see a sharp increase in March 2020 because of COOVID-19, but also for any other reason. Conversely, in the following months, the number of certificates of incapacity for work was lodged with the VIs several times in a row a lot lower than in 2019. In April 2019, 48,460 certificates were submitted to the VIs, while in April 2020 they were only 28,111 in total, i.e. 20,349 less than in April 2019, while 5,996 had been submitted for COVID-19. So it is seen that there are far fewer for the other categories. A similar pattern is seen in May and until September, but to a much lesser extent, namely that the total number of certificates in 2020 was lower than the number in the corresponding months of 2019. In October they see a lot of COVID-19, but less non-COVID-19, which seems to have stabilized the whole thing. We can also provide some information on the expenditure on incapacity for work, based on the evolution of the number of days covered by the ZIV, the benefit insurance granted in the first year in the case of primary incapacity for work. We also have data on employees. If we compare 2020 to 2019, we see an increase until May 2020 for first year sickness grants at the level of health insurance. From June 2020 onwards, we can see that this is, to a relatively significant extent, lower. Our records only go until November. How can these figures be explained? The figures are likely to be higher in the first half of 2020, especially for the month of April 2020, because more people have declared incapacity for work because of covid, as I said earlier. From June onwards, we see, somewhat surprisingly, the opposite. The pandemic appears to have had a positive effect on primary disability expenditure. We can assume that for some reason fewer people are disabled. However, we may also think that there are actually people in a situation where they would normally have declared incapacity for work, but that they are now in a different situation of inactivity and income replacement, such as temporary unemployment. One possible explanation is also that people become less disabled as we define it, due to telework, distance and hygiene measures, which, for example, reduce traffic accidents and reduce infectious diseases. Maybe people are getting off their feet by working out of their homes, even though they feel a little sick. Teleworking, distance and hygiene measures are thus also a possible explanation for the reduction in the number of declarations of incapacity for work. You are asking about the effect on long-term incapacity for work, a question which concerns me too. In fact, I do not have enough figures to make a statement on this at the moment, but we naturally want to follow this up and monitor it further in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. I understand that the figures, as they often do, can still be used in all directions. You mentioned a few things that may be obvious, but we must also include them in the big debate. Somehow it also shows that binary work or disability sometimes keeps too much at home, while telework or other forms of work or less can often be a solution. That is the path we must take with the reintegration pathways. I fear that you are also right when I hear you say that we are almost expected to discuss this in a few years' time. Indeed, it is increasingly apparent that people continue to suffer from long-term symptoms, which certainly affect their functioning. I understand that these figures are still difficult, but I hope that we will look very closely at them and try to take them as well as possible, so that we do not see a whole group of people disappear from society again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u25	Minister, you may not like these questions. I will not go into the case too much, the newspapers are still full of it every day. Of course, it's about a large-scale corruption investigation. There's a lot going on, too. It is even more painful when it comes to money that health insurance funds should spend on care and people. Apart from this case, this also reveals a greater problem of the use and use of funds which should actually benefit the health of a citizen. A few years ago, there was an audit of the Court of Auditors, to which I referred earlier, which states that there is insufficient transparency about the approximately EUR 1 billion that RIZIV gives annually to the national federations. It is not known whether they are all properly spent. Can you assure me here and now that these funds are only used for the operating costs of the mutualities for which they are intended? Is it possible that the resources that the mutualities receive in an improper way flow to non-profit organisations linked to those mutualities? Do you intend to review the parameter formula on the basis of which the annual forfait to land unions is determined, as the Court of Auditors expressly asks? These are parameters that have long since failed to achieve the right goal. The second question that is linked to this, I will add. This question goes even further into the patrimonial non-profit organisations. We see that the patrimony of mutualist organizations is often in the hands of such a patrimonial association that then rents the buildings to the mutualities. This is also the case with De Voorzorg Limburg, with the vzw Germinal Enlargement. It all seems okay in itself, but the same people are on the board of directors of both the sickness fund and those non-profit organisations. There's gonna be trouble. How do you assess this shady entanglement of the mutualities with patrimonial non-profit organisations, which also often control the management of hospitals, rest homes and pharmacies? Do you agree that this does not improve the transparency of certain financial flows and, on the contrary, even facilitates malicious practices or conflicts of interest? Is it legally permitted for mutualist organisations to own real estate? In fact, the Health Insurance Fund Act of 6 August 1990 does not provide any conclusive answer to this question. The practice of entering into agreements with related non-profit organisations dates back to the time when this was indeed explicitly prohibited by law. There is therefore a real lack of clarity about this. To what extent are the accounts of those non-profit organisations whose mutualities rent their buildings also controlled by the Health Insurance Office? Shouldn't this be extended further? Do the patrimonial non-profit organisations that rent buildings to their own mutualist organisations receive a tax advantage? If so, is that desirable, especially if we take into account that the operating costs of insurance institutions are already largely borne by the public authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u26	Madam President, Minister, the mutualities have an important role to play as a payout institution for the government. Moreover, they are also involved in much more than purely paying out, such as the control of sick people. The management fees they receive annually for this purpose are significant. They are therefore controlled by the government for their operation. Unfortunately, however, mutualities are regularly mentioned in corruption files. Both in Flanders and Wallonia there is a scandal that shows that the control is limp. The most recent case is that of De Voorzorg Limburg. Minister, I have two questions for you. Firstly, what were the comments in the inspection report on the mutuality of the Bond Moyson, in particular De Voorzorg Limburg? Can you make that report public? Secondly, what initiatives will you take to strengthen control and prevent fraud involving public money?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u27	Madam President, (...) [[No sound.]] ...dialoged during the plenary session. Mrs Van Peel, the situation is somewhat the same for the judicial investigation. I can't tell you much more about it. However, we are still very much in agreement that, if there have been unacceptable cases in this area, those responsible must of course be punished. There is something revolting about the fact that unacceptable things are happening in the sphere of social and health care. I would like to go into more detail about what already exists today and where possible improvements are to be made in relation to the various problems you are raising. Firstly, the rent and rental costs paid by a Landsbond or a sickness fund for the use of assets, such as buildings or equipment, are entered in the accounts under the 610 rent and rent account. Today, the Health Insurance Office does not have the allocation of these amounts. They can therefore cover both assets owned by private individuals, companies or non-mutualist non-profit organisations. In cases where the supplementary insurance is the owner, amounts may also be paid under compulsory insurance to the supplementary insurance. What's a possible improvement slope here? A further step in the transparency I would like to look at could be that a report should be made to the general meeting of the sickness fund, the Landsbond and the Audit Service for both compulsory and supplementary insurance on the destination of the amounts mentioned above. This is an improvement that we can consider with a view to transparency in this area. As far as tangible fixed assets are concerned, in accordance with the regulations, I refer in principle to Article 65 of the Royal Decree of 21 October 2002 on the valuation rules for fixed capital investments are covered by supplementary insurance. They can only be taken into account in the compulsory insurance accounts if those accounts contain reserves of administrative costs or other means such as financing by supplementary insurance or another third party. In practice, no investments in tangible fixed assets are made in the compulsory insurance except by the Auxiliary Cash of sickness insurance, which does not provide supplementary insurance. Also, HR Rail's medical care cashier has no additional insurance, but the fixed assets are made available to her by HR Rail. With the supervision of separate management, I come to a very important part of your question. After all, how can we guarantee that health insurance funds are not used for matters other than those for which they are intended? At present, there is a whole series of instruments that ensure that the funds of compulsory insurance, i.e. public funds, and those of supplementary insurance, members' contributions, are properly and transparently managed and that you can keep them apart. I'll give you five. Firstly, the law of 6 August 1990 provides that compulsory insurance must be completely separate from supplementary insurance. This means that separate accounts are kept, with separate financial resources. Secondly, as regards the entry of administrative costs, the Royal Decree of 21 October 2002 lays down the rules on valuation. In summary, all costs must be allocated directly to compulsory insurance or supplementary insurance, as the case may be. Common costs, such as personnel costs, should be distributed on the basis of objective keys. The auditors shall draw up a specific report for the inspection service on this matter. Third, since the financial year 2018, all insurance institutions are required to draw up an analytical reporting of administrative costs for the purposes of the audit service, on which the auditors are required to draw up a specific report. This analytical report details the administrative costs of compulsory insurance for the sectors of medical care, benefit, insurability and other services. That allows for comparative analysis. This analytical reporting is updated and refined every year and is therefore evolutionary. Fourthly, the annual accounts of the national associations and sickness funds have been deposited with the National Bank of Belgium since 2015 and are therefore publicly accessible via the National Bank's website. Fifth, and finally, the Audit Service closely monitors the proper financial and accounting management, in close cooperation with the auditors. Those auditors shall report annually to the audit authority on the audited annual accounts as well as on the proper functioning of internal audit and internal control. These are five elements relating to separate management, which ensure that there is a correct and transparent management method for both compulsory insurance and supplementary insurance. Then I'll come to the administrative costs. Firstly, I must clarify that the RIZIV grants a flat-rate annual amount to the insurance institution or national association. The distribution which each insurance institution makes to the sickness funds shall be made in accordance with rules laid down by each insurance institution itself. This payment is intended solely to cover the operating costs associated with the performance of the compulsory insurance. I refer to Article 195 of the ZIV Act. However, if such compensation is insufficient, the deficit must be charged to the so-called administrative centre, in the supplementary insurance. Conversely, any surplus should be allocated to this administrative centre. The ZIV Act provides for a surplus on administrative costs to become the full property of the insurance institution. The possible use of the working capital of this administrative centre is strictly regulated. However, going into this in detail would lead us too far in this time frame. On the basis mainly of the accounting data of the mutualist entities, the audit authority shall ensure the correct application of these rules. Any violations of this have rarely been detected and have always been corrected at the request of the inspection service. For the sake of completeness, I should like to point out that the accounting and financial management of the sickness funds is not only monitored by the supervisory authority, but also by the auditors. These auditors shall report annually to the audit authority. Finally, I come to the questions about the non-profit organisations that manage the heritage. The supervisory authority does not have the power to control the non-profit organisations with which the national associations or sickness funds cooperate, nor the non-profit organisations responsible for part of the management or full management of the patrimony of the national association or the sickness fund. However, the law provides for the obligation of minimum reporting by the Governing Board on cooperation with third parties to the General Assembly. I also see a number of improvements here, which I would like to examine and why provisions will already be included in a draft law containing various provisions, which will prepare the administrations and my policy cell. I therefore accept that Parliament should make a number of proposals with improvements. This is all about transparency in relation to these non-profit organisations that are responsible for the management of the heritage. I'll give you six runs. Firstly, the obligation to appoint a revisor. Secondly, let the revisoral report be transferred to the sickness fund and the national association. Thirdly, submit the revisoral report to the General Assembly. Fourthly, from a certain amount, the sickness fund must notify the Landsbond in advance of purchases or sales of fixed assets, with the possibility for the Landsbond to ask for explanations or to refuse the transaction. Fifthly, the introduction of a mandatory application of public procurement rules from a certain amount. Sixthly, let the non-profit organisations be part of the scope of the internal audit of the respective national federation. Those are the slopes on which I want to work in order to achieve greater transparency in relation to the problems you are raising today. I'm thinking about that. I am therefore very frank today, because normally I am not supposed to tell you what I am thinking about. That's exceptional. I would like to include this in a draft that I will shortly be presenting, with increased administrative power and transparency within the health insurance funds. Of course, this also has to do with the further implementation of something that came about in the previous legislature, but which I am not aware of at the moment. It was like "future pact." Mrs Samyn, you're asking for a report. I must confess that I am not sure which report it is about. You can consult the annual report of a sickness fund on the website of the sickness fund in question, but also health insurance funds are obliged to publish their annual accounts, including the revisoral report, on the balance sheet centre of the National Bank of Belgium. It is therefore easy to consult this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for taking a very comprehensive look at your head. I look forward to seeing some of the things you have mentioned that you want to work out. However, I do not find myself in all the elements. For example, I know that there is a difference between compulsory and supplementary insurance funds, but as long as supplementary insurance is compulsory, of course it remains a somewhat strange system. In addition, despite the legislation, which you have listed in five points, and the agreements already made, the Court of Auditors' audit, drawn up on the basis of that legislation, sets out the following two very important issues. Firstly, the use of administrative costs is not transparent for the Court of Auditors, which makes it difficult to determine how the parameters should be adjusted. Secondly, the control service does not receive the necessary information from the sickness funds in all respects in order to be able to carry out the checks properly. I am pleased that you want to look at all these things and I also think that there are real lessons to be learned, including what is happening in Limburg now. I hope, however, that you will also include this audit. According to the Pact, the analytical account had to be made public, if I am correct, since 2018, but that never happened in my knowledge, unless it happened recently for the first time. I believe that the health insurance funds have not even kept that promise. What you say about the auditors, that may be a good system, but unfortunately we also see in the list of auditors names of certain persons with shared interests, which you also know. It's gonna be a dangerous game again. Transparency of funds to be spent on citizens deserves a certain amount of attention. I am therefore curious to see what will eventually come out of your head.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. About the non-profit organisations you talk about the six slopes around which you want to work, which will have to ensure greater transparency. Since there are still some loopholes, more transparency is certainly needed. Mutualities are primarily responsible for ensuring and ensuring quality and efficient services for their customers. Another scandal with public money will only make the citizen more suspicious. Money, public money and money from the citizens themselves must actually be spent correctly, especially if that money is intended for the care of the sick.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u30	Mr Minister, since I submitted my question at the beginning of March, steps have already been taken on sex work. For example, Minister Van Quickenborne announced, in response to Mr. Marianne Verhaert's question, that he would submit a bill to amend Article 380 of the Criminal Code to decriminalise sex work. This is an important step towards the recognition and protection of the sector. Meanwhile, uncertainty remains high for the sector and the impact of the pandemic is increasing. According to Wendy Gabriels of the health organisation Violet, it is important that the government makes a distinction between massage and sex work and that sex work is also mentioned by name in ministerial decisions. We note that sex workers are slipping through the loopholes of the social safety net, especially in today's covid times. Many have neither social rights nor labour rights. OMCWs offer facilities for those who are not in line, but it remains a very difficult process. Many also remain behind without any financial compensation, so hidden sex work can no longer be stopped. How the sector will emerge from the second lockdown is still the question. Sexwork remains a taboo, despite the fact that in Belgium, according to a Federal Police estimate, between 25,000 and 28,000 people are active in the sex industry. According to a 2019 estimate of the National Bank of Belgium, Belgians spend more than 1 billion euros on paid sex each year. The corona crisis made it clear that a sustainable solution must be found for the sector. In discussing your policy paper, Minister, I have already mentioned the following passage from the coalition agreement: "In consultation with the actors in the field, consideration will be given to improving the living and working conditions of sex workers." What are the government's plans for sex workers to perform their jobs in a way that other employees or self-employed people can do? In what period will there be consultation with the sector and with other actors with expertise in the field?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u31	Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are only in item five of our agenda when it is already 11.30 a.m. I therefore ask you to respect your speaking time or to refer to your written questions, as Mr. Ben Segers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u33	Madam President, I do not really like to be referred to the written question. I am a bit old-fashioned in that, but what does a citizen who wants to follow this up with my answer when they first refer to the number of a question? I'm not the boss of the work, so I'll settle for anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u34	However, that was a suggestion from your party mate. It has also helped us move forward. It was a suggestion from Mrs. Kitir.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u35	I'm just giving my opinion. For the rest, she's irrelevant. I shall now turn to the question asked. As the authors have said, sex work is not prohibited in itself. The exploitation by third parties is. It is because of this that many sex workers are currently in a grey zone, so in a precarious situation. In practice, some sex workers are currently working as self-employed, usually as hostess or masseuse. Others have a contract of employment, for example "a servant's contract." Of course, a large group is also involved in undeclared work. They do not build up social rights, which is quite dramatic. During the current crisis, sex workers who are officially and registered as self-employed or employed may benefit from the covid support measures taken in the context of this crisis, as well as other employees and self-employed persons in similar situations. If you are registered as a waitress, you can rely on temporary unemployment. If one is self-employed, one can rely on the right of bridging. Undoubtedly, people who have done undeclared work will have ended up in the OMCW, unfortunately. Indeed, the government agreement provides that the government will examine, in consultation with the actors in the field, how to improve the living and working conditions of sex workers. A first important step is that sex work, and in particular exploitation by third parties, is removed from the penal code. Of course, exploitation and trafficking in human beings remain a criminal offence, as well as the imposition of excessive or risky working conditions. Minister of Justice Van Quickenborne has already taken the necessary first steps. Once sex work has been removed from the criminal sphere, it will be possible to provide this profession with real social protection based on their real activities, including those who remain under the radar today and are neither employed nor self-employed. Like any working man, they are entitled to it. It is important that they can participate fully in our social security system, either as an employee or as a self-employed person. In principle, this does not require any adaptation of social security legislation. The idea that we should go a priori to a specific statute in terms of social protection is wrong. We must ensure that these people can do work that is not done in black, that is recognised as an activity, and we must indeed verify whether this fits in with the various chambers of social security. A priori, I believe this is the case. But we must, of course, enter into dialogue with the sector on this subject after we have properly informed the sector first. Social protection is about more than social security stricto sensu. It is also about working conditions, employment protection, access to other insurance, and so on. These are powers of other colleagues in the government, but this is undoubtedly a common concern that we have.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u36	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I believe that the gap lies mainly in the fact that we have to acknowledge that the oldest profession we have can be named by name. There's a lot of uncertainty there. Now, of course, we respect the freedom of choice of each individual, and we recognise that women, men and transsexuals want to offer sex of their own free will for a fee. We also believe that sexuality experience is a right for every person, regardless of gender, physical or mental disability. We want a statute, but, as you yourself say, rights and obligations must also be linked to it. We must recognise sex work as a fully-fledged economic asset, and also give it the necessary social rights and labour rights. In this way, we ensure a safer working environment for this vulnerable group. I fully agree with your findings that there should also be vigilance for exploitation, which also exists in the sector. The crisis has indeed made it painfully clear that there is a grey zone. I am very pleased that a dialogue will take place with the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u37	Next time, Minister, I will be delighted to put my question to you orally. I wanted to help the work forward by referring to my written question, as agreed. For those who are following this meeting live, I can say that my question will be added to the report of this sitting. And of course there is also the reply. My question was initially an informative question. I am very pleased about the imminent decriminalisation, but I also want us to seize every opportunity now to eliminate as much as possible the ambiguity that exists today. For example, we can work to ensure optimal protection of sex workers. I am, of course, pleased to see that you are particularly fond of the matter. The sex workers deserve more clarity about their social protection. The greater the clarity, the better we can fight against excesses. Of course sex work should be an ordinary economic activity. Of course, forced prostitution and, for example, human trafficking only make up a piece of the whole palette. Once decriminalisation is done, we must also be able to take stricter action against these excesses, against forced prostitution and economic exploitation, against situations of trafficking in human beings. When we manage to provide clarity for those regular economic activities of sex workers, we will also be better able to act effectively against those excesses. I wish you every success in all of this, and I will certainly come back to you here, also orally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u38	It was just a question of whether or not to refer to oral questions submitted in writing. I share the President's concern that within the time frame at our disposal, we can get as many good answers as possible to the questions we ask. At the same time, I share the concern of the Minister, who does want a good debate in which we try not only to express our own opinion, but also to think aloud together. That is what happens in this committee with a number of questions. The only way to reconcile these two concerns is to broaden the time frame and indeed to see if the Minister can be more available. There are indeed a lot of questions on the agenda. It is unthinkable to finish them all in a good way within the two hours we have this morning. This is certainly not meant as a sting, I sincerely mean what I say. I share both concerns very much. It would be good if the Minister's availability were reviewed, which would enable us to respond to both good answers and a sound debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u39	I would point out that we are trying, as far as possible, to organise these meetings of oral questions in the afternoon in order to have a little more time. It's not easy. The proposal to refer to the text of the questions had been submitted at the beginning of the crisis covid-19, if I am not mistaken, in particular because the pace of the questions had greatly increased because of the circumstances. Therefore, we are trying to balance, as much as possible, this delicate exchange exercise with the government, in accordance with a common concern of all of us, it seems to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u40	Minister, if you have a full career of 45 years, you will receive a full pension. For example, if he or she subsequently takes up a part-time job somewhere in a company, he or she is subject to the ordinary tax system. The person fulfils all his obligations, as he pays taxes and RSZ contributions among other things. However, he or she cannot, to date, fall back on the sickness fund in the event of long-term illness, i.e. for more than one month, even if the contributions are paid. Not being able to work by, for example, corona entitles you to a temporary unemployment benefit, but being unable to work through illness does not entitle you to anything after the month's guaranteed wage. Minister, are you aware of the problem? How will you fix it? When can we expect a solution to this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u41	The current rules provide that after the month in which the statutory retirement age of 65 years has been reached, the worker may claim benefits in the event of incapacity for work during the first six months of incapacity for work, provided that he has not yet taken up the retirement pension. During the period covered by the guaranteed wage, the grant of the benefit is, of course, refused. As soon as the person concerned has taken up the retirement pension after the statutory retirement age, he shall not be entitled to benefits from the sickness fund in the event of incapacity for work. However, if the worker becomes unfit for work before reaching the statutory retirement age and has already taken up the retirement pension early, he may, on the basis of the regulation of benefit insurance, claim invalidity benefits after applying a special cumulation scheme. There is then a basic right to benefit until the last day of the month in which he reaches the statutory retirement age. The insured person may claim a daily amount equal to the difference between 150 %, for a pensioner, or 125 %, for a pensioner without a dependent person, of the benefit fixed for the dependants and the amount of the retirement pension converted into working days, without, however, exceeding the daily amount of the benefit which would be granted to him if there was no cumulation. It should be noted that the pension regulation itself, for which my colleague Lalieux is competent, prohibits in principle the cumulation of the retirement pension with disability benefits. For this reason, Article 235 (1) of the Royal Decree of 3 July 1996 already applies since 2005 and not introduced as a result of the job deal, is virtually not applied in practice. In reply to your second question, we do not intend to change the measure from 2019, which was mainly intended to support the later inclusion of the pension benefit with further pension build-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u42	So, Minister, for the time being, you do not intend to change the measure. In any case, I will also put the question to the Minister, Mr Lalieux, in the light of the forthcoming pension reform. In addition to workers who work for much less than 45 years, there are also workers with much more years on the counter, for example because they are both employed and self-employed at the same time and thus contribute twice. It is unfair for us that they should also be recalculated on the basis of those 45 years of work. They sponsor a large group of people who are active for much less than 45 years. The same applies to pensioners who work at the age of 65, 66, 67. When will all the years worked be effectively charged? That's our question. I will argue that with your fellow minister. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u43	Debates of the European Parliament 55015554C by Mr Piedboeuf is without object, unless he makes himself known.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u44	Minister, in 2019 there will be half fewer bridge pensioners than in 2012. In absolute figures, the number evolves from 115,000 to 57,000. That's a drop of almost 58,000. At the same time, the number of long-term sick in the 55-64 age group increases from nearly 111,000 to 184 000. That's an increase of almost, hold on, 74,000 units. In other words: for every bridge-retired person who disappeared, at least one older, long-term sick person was added. Social reality is not changed by the abolition of social law. People who are completely burnt out are looking for ways out. That's the way it is. The various sectors of social security are communicative vessels. That is why it is so important that we invest in systems that make the work more workable. The government agreement provides for measures to be taken on the end-of-life scheme. Will you work the runways from 55 years old and SWT from 58 years old? What is the status of the Ipa negotiations in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u45	Mr Colebunders, I would like to add that the number of long-term incapacityes has indeed increased considerably in recent years. In my view, this is not only due to the reduction of the bridge pension, it is also due to the ageing of the population and the increased participation of women in the labour market, including at an older age. There are just more older age groups in our labour market. For older people, the risk of disability is just higher. Moreover, it is seen that the risk of long-term incapacity has generally increased over different age groups. The increase in retirement age to 66 in 2025 and 67 in 2030 will automatically result in more people in long-term disability in the older age groups. People who currently retire from disability because of retirement at the age of 65 will indeed remain disabled for two years longer. There is indeed a chance that new people will enter the system by raising the retirement age. This is a logical and inevitable consequence when the retirement age is raised. The question is how strong the effect is. You know that, in cooperation with the Regions and the Communities, we want to make a stronger commitment to the return to work of people receiving sickness benefits. For me, this means organising additional support but also adapting regulations and establishing good cooperation with the Regions and the Communities so that the best possible service can be provided for people who want to return to a working environment from long-term incapacity for work. For services, I am of course thinking of training and guidance. Guidance is important to get back to work with the former employer. However, we may also need to focus more on getting into work with another employer. I am thinking, among other things, of a resumption of part-time work. The figures for the number of long-term disabled persons engaged in an authorised part-time activity show that 12,89 % of long-term employed persons are engaged in part-time employment. These are people for whom a full return to the labour market is not possible or not yet possible, but who resume work as far as possible to a more limited volume. We note, however, that from the age of 60, less use is being made of this system of permitted part-time work resumption. Only 6.1 % in the 60-64 age group uses it, which is a lot less than in the younger age groups. Madam President, that was my answer to the questions put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u46	Madam President, Minister, you are making a nice analysis of what is happening, but you are not answering my question. But I didn't expect that either. Minister, I would just like to give you one more example to clarify the problem. Mr. X is a bricklayer. He's 56 years old or 57 years old to make it easy. He's been on the count for 38 years. He's getting sick. His back's broken. He can't go anymore. At some point, the sickness benefit institution decides that it must return to its employer. They will consider whether this employer can provide adapted work. You know as well as I do that this employer will not pay that employee to wipe the dust or to pick up paperwork. You know what will happen. This man has worked all his life and then the health insurance company says that it stops here and that a reintegration process will be started. That employee goes back to his employer's employer's employer and he will say that the further cooperation stops. This is a reality every day for hundreds of workers who have worked hard throughout their lives and where the employer finds that this worker can be disposed of cheaply. This worker has worked all his life to be disposed of virtually without compensation and to find a reintegration path where, at best, he will have to work on a much lower wage for another employee. Minister, if reintegration paths are the solution, I can already tell you that they are not working and that we do not find this the right solution. The figures also show that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u47	We shall now turn to questions. 55016118C on compliance with language legislation and 55016136C on outsourcing by Mrs Goethals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u48	I understand the concern about the reference to the written question, but my questions. 55016118C and 55016136C are converted written questions to which, unfortunately, I have not been allowed to receive an answer. So I am actually obliged to bring them up here orally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u49	I apologise that the written reply has not yet been received. It's ready. I just need to sign it. I need to find some time to sign the written questions. The answer is about 50 pages, so I suggest that I sign the written answer for the two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u50	That's perfect. I would have asked you to send me the answers by e-mail anyway. The figures are just a little easier by e-mail than oral.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u51	Mr Minister, in 2019 the law was adopted which provides that any person born in Belgium or of Belgian nationality suffering from birth defects resulting from the mother's taking of medicines containing thalidomide during pregnancy is entitled to a one-off grant of a lump sum of EUR 125,000. During the discussion of that draft law in this committee, concerns were expressed that the allocation of that amount could not be combined with the financial contributions received by the victims of the German Conterganstiftung. Since a legislative amendment in 2013, payments by foreign States for the granting of financial contributions have been taken into account. Your predecessor, Mrs De Block, then replied to that concern through Article 8 of the Law of 5 May 2019, which states that the payment of the lump sum does not affect the amounts to which the victims are entitled under other provisions. Therefore, it should not be the intention that the flat-rate allowance by the Belgian State should harm the right holders by losing their other financial contributions. In a reply to a written question, you replied in November 2020 that the Auxiliary Cash for Sickness and Invalidity Insurance will consider whether the person concerned is already receiving a benefit under recognition by the Conterganstiftung. What impact does that have on the award? Normally that should not have an impact. Do you know of any problems suffered by victims in receiving their financial contributions from the Conterganstiftung as a result of the flat-rate subsidy granted by the Belgian State? If, because of the grant of the lump sum by the Belgian State, a decision is taken by the German foundation to temporarily suspend or suspend the financial contribution to a Belgian victim, can the Belgian State intervene, so that a cumulation of both benefits would be possible? If such cumulation would not be possible, will there be a financial intervention by the Belgian State to compensate for the loss of financial support, as originally intended by the employer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u52	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, when you refer to previous answers, I assume that you refer to my answer to Question No 37 by Mr Van Lommel. In fact, I stated that for each dossier it was checked whether the applicant already received an interest rate after recognition by the Conterganstiftung. Such recognition is an excellent indication that the applicant has congenital malformations due to the fact that the mother used thalidomide in pregnancy. The existence of such recognition thus facilitates the examination of the dossier and allows for a more rapid positive decision to be taken in favour of the applicant. Taking a positive decision will result in the payment of the lump sum of 125,000 euros, provided for by the law of 5 May 2019. According to Belgian law, that amount can be fully combined with other benefits which the persons concerned would enjoy from other organisations or other States. I am indeed aware of the difficulties faced by some people who have been compensated under our law with the Conterganstiftung. The Conterganstiftung contacted a number of the persons reimbursed by it and asked them to submit a certificate from the Auxiliary Cash for Sickness and Invalidity Insurance showing that they received a lump sum from Belgium, with the aim of reducing the lump sum granted by Belgium from the German monthly payments. The Gesetz über die Conterganstiftung für behinderde Menschen, i.e. the Law on the Contergan Foundation for Persons with Disabilities, provides for an anti-cumulative measure. To the extent that this anti-cumulative measure is included in German legislation, I cannot, of course, legally require Germany to allow a cumulation of concessions. I'm following this issue very closely. My policy cell has had numerous contacts with the Dysmelia association. Contacts have also been established in Germany, particularly through our embassy in Berlin. This problem is not specific to Belgium, as people living in other countries are also confronted with the same situation. The Bundesverwaltungsgericht, the Federal Administrative Court of Germany, had to examine the case of an Irish national to whom that measure was applied. On 31 March the Bundesverwaltungsgericht referred the case to the Bundesverfassungsgericht, the German Federal Constitutional Court. I look forward to the outcome of that procedure. I hope, of course, that it will make it possible to solve the current problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think it's a complex case. It is true that our legislation states that this can be combined. We cannot decide on the legislation of other governments, but the victims assumed that it could be combined. They are now faced with the fact that their benefit is deducted from Germany. I understand that the case was brought before the German Constitutional Court. I hope that we will get an answer as soon as possible and that Germany will adapt the legislation so that a cumulative effect can be achieved. That would be the easiest thing to do, including for us. If that were not to happen, we must continue to urge Germany to make a cumulative solution possible. We can continue to ask that, in the interests of the victims to whom we have made a promise that they may accumulate this as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u54	Mr Minister, reception parents who can partially resume work after a period of incapacity for work can use the system of progressive work resumption. This system aims to allow people whose medical condition does not allow them to work in the same regime as before to gradually move towards full-time employment. The benefit received in the system of progressive work resumption reduces the first year by 25% and from the second year by 50%. Thus, reception parents who will never be able to work full-time because of their medical condition will see their sickness benefit fall gradually. Over time people would receive even more if they received a full sickness benefit and therefore no longer worked than if they were employed part-time. In this way, host parents are discouraged from working. Their financial situation forces them, as it were, to stop working, while they really want to continue to contribute to society by working part-time in conjunction with a sickness benefit. There is therefore a different scheme for reception parents than for employees. In the case of employees, the benefit does not fall if one does not work more than 20% of the hours of full-time work. For each percentage exceeding 20%, their benefit is reduced by the same percentage. On an earlier question, Minister, you replied that you would like to complete the evaluation of the status of reception parents before the summer. Will you also take into account the system of progressive work resumption? Do you foresee harmonization of the system of progressive work resumption for reception parents with that for employees? If that's the case, how will you do that? If that's not the case, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u55	Mrs Lanjri, I remember that exactly 20 years ago we were discussing the status of reception parents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u56	We are both still here and the problems have still not been solved for the reception parents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u57	I believe that I took great steps forward at the time, but that is how you see that every solution brings a new problem. They're nice flashbacks to the past, but let me get to the point. The social insured person who is recognized as unfit for work for the benefit of workers may resume an activity as a reception parent sui generis during the period of incapacity for work with the authorisation of the medical practitioner of the sickness fund. A reception parent sui generis is a natural person who is a member of a child care service recognised by a Community institution, in which care is provided in a family home, and who is not bound by a contract of employment with that service. The current rules provide that when an activity as a reception parent sui generis is resumed with the approval of the medical adviser, the disability benefit is reduced as follows. First, the daily amount of invalidity benefit is reduced by a flat-rate reduction of 25% during the first year of the activity. Secondly, the daily amount of invalidity benefit is reduced by 50% on a flat-rate basis from the second year of the activity. As you also pointed out, in the case of a resumption of an activity authorised by the doctor who is subject to social security for workers, the following rules of cumulation apply in principle, depending on the working regime of the activity, i.e. if occupational income is acquired. First, there is no reduction in the daily amount of the benefit if the working regime of the authorised activity does not exceed one fifth of full-time employment. Secondly, there is a reduction in the daily amount if the working regime of the permitted activity exceeds one fifth of full-time employment. The precise reduction depends on the average number of hours per week of the permitted activity exceeding one fifth. There is therefore a kind of basic exemption of 20% in that activity. The system of cumulation in the case of the exercise of the activity with the authorization of the medical adviser was thoroughly reformed during the previous legislature. Under the current cumulation scheme, the working regime of the authorised activity is determining instead of the amount of occupational income resulting from the authorised activity. The approved service to which the reception parent sui generis is affiliated shall report to the RSZ on a quarterly basis for the person concerned via the DmfA, with an average number of working hours per week of the person in question, the factor S, which is fixed at 38 hours, and with an average number of working hours per week of the beneficiary, the factor Q, which is determined in relation to the average reception capacity per quarter. Since it is actually a fictitious breach of employment, the reform of the cumulation scheme in 2018 considered that a possible reduction in the daily amount of the disability benefit based on the breach of employment of the authorised activity, i.e. the general scheme, is disproportionate given the limited benefits a reception parent receives sui generis; it is actually a reimbursement of expenses. It was then thought that pure harmonisation was not desirable. Thus, a special rule was laid down which involves a flat-rate reduction in the daily amount of the disability benefit, depending on the duration of the activity as a reception parent sui generis. This is at the root of the problems you are describing. The coalition agreement provides for a general evaluation of the Statute. I will begin to prepare this together with my fellow Ministers for Work and Finance. The point can then be taken up, but I would like to outline the history to indicate that it has been considered but that it is not so obvious to think of something else.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u58	At first sight, Minister, there has been some thought about this and there have been reasons for the regulation. However, it has an unintended effect by you and me, namely that reception parents should not reboot part-time but remain in the sickness benefit system. I hope that when we discuss the evaluation, which will soon be completed, we will look into the matter thoroughly and adjust the regulation. We may not have to opt for full harmonisation, but we need to consider whether we can make the scheme as much as possible equal to that of workers, with only justified differences remaining. If not, we will cut into our own skin, because then reception parents sui generis may not resume their activities and remain in the sickness benefit system, which is not good either for social security or for childcare, because there is already a shortage of reception parents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u59	Questions Nos 55016395C, 55016413C and 55016423C by Mrs Valerie Van Peel and attached questions Nos 55016429C by Mrs Valerie Van Peel and 55017251C by Mrs Ellen Samyn are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u60	Madam Chair, Mr. Piedboeuf, since mid-March 2020, ONSS has adapted its recovery arrangements. This adjustment was made on the basis of the relevant legal and regulatory provisions and on the basis of the instructions of its Management Committee. This means in concrete terms that the ONSS has suspended the service of the constraints, the service of the summonses before the labour courts, the service of the summonses in bankruptcy before the court of the undertaking, the enforcement of the enforceable titles obtained, the constraints, the judgments or judgments. As the moratoriums were lifted, and taking into account the decoupling, the ONSS has since December 2020 taken a responsible recovery approach in order to be able to carry out its main task, namely the collection of social security contributions to ensure the financing of social security. This very gradual resumption of recovery took place in order to avoid the prescription of ONSS claims while ensuring consistency with the measures adopted by the government and, each time, taking into account realities on the ground. Although, since the end of January 2021, the legal moratorium on bankrupt quotes has ended, ONSS has, however, continued its policy of responsible collection by not quoting companies that are subject to government accompanying measures, as well as companies whose closure is still imposed. However, an exception is applied to employers who have defrauded with a view to avoiding the payment of social security contributions. On the other hand, ONSS continues to give priority to the means of amicable recovery that have been expanded since the beginning of the crisis by allowing the granting of payment plans over a period of 24 months without the application of civil sanctions. These measures should enable companies to better manage their social liabilities and avoid bankruptcy. In view of the above, ONSS will continue its policy of responsible recovery since the beginning of the covid-19 crisis, taking into account the situation of the various sectors of activity and giving priority, wherever possible, to amicable recovery approaches.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answer, which is reassuring for the economic fabric. Management must in fact be responsible in the interests of social security. It must also be in line with all measures taken by the government to try to maintain businesses. This approach to the problem makes it possible not to precipitate bankruptcies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u62	Madam President, Minister, in December a temporary arrangement was adopted for the association work in sport, which is valid until the end of 2021. You yourself indicated that you would start a dialogue as soon as possible in order to work out a definitive regulation in good time, not only for sport, but also for the socio-cultural sector, for example. In January, you indicated in this committee that your cabinet had already had a first consultation with the sociocultural sector in order to include it in the provisional arrangement of association work. In the meantime, we're at the beginning of May, four months away. I have the following questions. Where are the discussions with the sociocultural sector to integrate them into the union work? What timing do you have in mind? Is that before the summer? What about the development of a more sustainable organisation work scheme for 2022 and the following years?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u63	Madam President, Minister, just before the turn of the year, the new law allowing association work in sports associations was published, with the end of December 2021. I had already said several times at that time that this would put the pressure on the sports associations again and they would have to work with provisional rules. I would have preferred that we had set ourselves that deadline and not the associations. As Mr Anseeeuw said, all kinds of promises were made at that time, including in this committee. I therefore have the following questions. The current legislation runs until the end of this year. What are the intentions for 2022? How's the meeting going? How will we equalise the difference in taxation between the work of association in recreational sport and the scheme for the sharing economy? How are the discussions with the sociocultural sector on association work going? Will this sector be able to join the existing system of association work? Are there any other sectors that would like to join?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u64	Madam President, Minister, on 24 December Parliament decided to adopt a temporary law on association work for one year. There is another group of people who work in a very precarious situation, namely those working in the collaborative economy, such as Deliveroo and other courier companies. These platform workers are often considered self-employed by the platforms for which they are employed, whereas there is actually a clear relationship of authority and therefore they should rather be regarded as employees. They often fall between the two statutes and build up no or hardly any social rights, often with dramatic consequences. For example, there are people who have worked as couriers for two years at Deliveroo or another firm and now find that if they become ill or unemployed they are not entitled to any benefit. We need to put a stop to that. You are currently working on a new draft law on association work. It was normally agreed that this would come to Parliament before the summer. Can we not include in that law a provision to provide a solution here for better protection for employees in the collaborative economy? Just as we do for association workers, we could also register for platform employees that they should at least be employed as a self-employed person or as an employee with one or more employers. That would mean that they would be building a basis anyway. Whether that's supposed to be half-time or four-fifths, we'll look into it. They would at least be better protected and build up social rights. What do you think of this proposal? Can you include it in the preparations for a new design for the association work? Are you coming to Parliament for the recess? Are you working on other proposals to improve the social status of platform workers? What are these proposals? Have you discussed this with Mr Dermagne? Have you already involved the social partners in any proposals or asked them for advice? When will you come to Parliament with these proposals? Another question concerns the law on association work. We approved it in December. It has been made clear from the outset that there can be an extension to other sectors, especially to the socio-cultural sector. There was support for that, too. For that group it becomes very urgent. When I asked you a question about this last month, I suggested that you stop waiting, since it is now May and start the social and cultural work. You could also allow enlargement and the possibility of recourse to the law on association work for the socio-cultural sector. For that group, you can arrange that. If necessary, you can do so for other sectors or groups afterwards. I suggest that you come to Parliament as soon as possible with a draft law. In it, you can possibly include that it might be possible for new groups to take a decision with a KB or a decision in the Council of Ministers. If target groups still have to be added, we will not waste any time. After all, time is running out. People in social and cultural work are already working and with a fee as a volunteer they do not get very far. It is high time to provide a solution for them as well. So I look forward to a decision in this area and hope that you will take my suggestion of last month to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u65	Madam President, Minister, the law on association work chose to divide the number of hours to be performed per month over the quarter. This choice was made in order to achieve flexibility in the sports sector in particular. The legislation also provided that the maximum amount per month is one twelfth of the annual fee, which makes it desirable to extend the flexibility. The day before yesterday the sports federations asked for this flexibility to be applied, because they fear a shortage of sports monitors, especially if they exceed the monthly amount. I also agree with colleagues. The scope can be extended to the socio-cultural sector, absolutely agreed. Tourism and organisations responsible for night care for the needy and elderly also have a demand for this. Is it therefore possible to consider increasing the monthly amount over the coming months, without, of course, exceeding the annual amount? What progress has been made on extending the scope of application, as expressed by my fellow Members? Has an evaluation been carried out to work on the basis of this legislation, including after 31 December 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u66	As has already been said in this committee, my staff, together with the staff of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Work and the Minister of Finance, have consulted with the representatives of the Federation. This is the umbrella organisation that represents the Flemish social-cultural adult work and the amateur arts. We also consulted the French-speaking umbrella organisation. Those two domes were requesting parties to extend the association work to include the activities mentioned in the Law of 18 July 2018 on Economic Relance and the Strengthening of Social Cohesion. That law was destroyed by the Constitutional Court. What are these activities about? Firstly, artistic or artistic tutor in the amateur arts sector, the artistic and cultural educational sector. Secondly, providing training, lectures, presentations and performances on cultural, artistic and social themes in the sociocultural, sport, culture, art education and the arts sector. During the discussion in the government of the outcome of that consultation, it was also asked to examine whether the temporary arrangement could be extended further to other activities, in addition to what was proposed in the field of sociocultural activities. That was quite a list. It is no surprise that this comes up in the debate of a government. For this list, advice was requested from the relevant Joint Committees and the High Council for Volunteers by mid-May. My staff also consulted with the VVSG and L'Union des Villes et Communes. So we will get their position. In addition, consultations are planned with the Flemish, Walloon and Brussels federations of guides. The aim is to be able to determine as objectively as possible whether an extension is required for the activities that have occurred in the government's deliberations, including guides. I cannot rule out the fact that the opinions that we will receive and the consultations that will be held on them do not produce a clear result. It's not so sure we'll be out of here soon. In the meantime, the Consultative Committee has recently decided that sociocultural activities can take place again under certain conditions. The sector needs clarification on the possible extension of the temporary arrangements for association work to the socio-cultural activities mentioned. For this reason, I have decided to go further in two steps and, in a first phase, to provide for the extension of the two socio-cultural activities mentioned. I have prepared a draft law for this purpose, which I will submit to the Council of Ministers for approval in the very near future, so that it can be submitted and approved in Parliament before the summer. The draft law does not provide for the possibility of adding other activities by royal decree. I agree that we should be careful about this. It is important for Parliament to have the opportunity to express its opinion on this matter. Nor do I think it is appropriate for the platform workers working in the collaborative economy to introduce new rules into the temporary arrangements for association work through this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u67	(...). [[No microphone.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u68	Mrs Lanjri, the containment of practitioners that you have suggested can be examined when drawing up a definitive regulation. I will send your question to the secretariat of the National Labour Council and ask the social partners to examine it during their work on a final settlement. Of course, the range of such a piste is still limited. After all, it does not provide a solution for those who engage in a professional activity through the platform economy and thus derive their income from the platform work to a large extent or exclusively. In consultation with colleagues in the policy cells, Mr Dermagne and Mr Clarinval, my staff are studying how the government, in cooperation with the social partners, can ensure that platform workers enjoy the protection that is most appropriate to their specific work situation. The National Labour Council gave advice on the royal decision on the increase in the monthly amount for the sports sector. The social partners, with the exception of the representatives of Unisoc, are not in favour of this increase. Unisoc proposed to allow the increase in the monthly amount for the sport sector only during the third quarter of 2021. This proposal seems to me to meet the demand of the sports sector in order to have sufficient coaches and trainers available for the summer camps. Time is limited, which I think is also good. That is why I have proposed to the government to increase the monthly amount for the third quarter of 2021. This week the government is still considering the royal decision on this matter. On the final arrangement for the association work from 2022 onwards, I can inform you that the social partners in the National Labour Council have been considering this scheme in recent months. However, the consultations are still ongoing. I want to give it every chance of success. I hope that the social partners will be able to deliver a unanimous opinion. Solutions that take into account, on the one hand, the particular context in which various activities take place and, on the other hand, the respect of the fundamental rules of our social security law, our labour law and our taxation are what we need.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u69	Madam President, Minister, I agree with you in your last point, which states that we must strengthen and respect the principle of social security. That's right. I note that platform workers are taxed less than the association workers in this country today, which raises some questions. The question remains, of course, whether we should extend the work of association, both this year, with a temporary arrangement, but also later, with a definitive arrangement and what criterion you would like to apply in order not to extend one activity or another. I think it is logical that the distance to the regular economy should be decisive. That is why, as far as I am concerned, the temporary arrangement is a little too small and too limited in terms of the activities which may be covered by the association work. I therefore call for an objective view of this. As far as the extension of the temporary arrangement for this year is concerned, it is all a little short notice. I am very curious about the draft law and especially about the points and commas contained in it. There is indeed a need for clarity, both in the short and medium term. I understand that the social partners are still working on finding a sustainable arrangement for next year and the years after, and that they have not yet completed their work. However, the summer recess is on the doorstep, so time is running out. We only have three months left to complete everything. This is best done in consultation, in order to meet the needs of the associations in this country as well as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u70	I think that joining the socio-cultural sector before the summer is a first improvement, especially when our society finally regains its fundamental rights and can therefore be completely open, including in that sector. I also think that the creative solution for the sport sector is an improvement during the summer. I think, however, that the sports sector and the many users of sports association work are particularly in need of long-term legal certainty, both for workers and for employers. The current law expires at the end of December 2021. So the clock's ticking. Then we have not yet discussed the difference in taxes for union workers, who are double taxed against the scheme in the collaborative economy. A solution to this discrimination must also be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u71	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and, above all, for your willingness to listen to the suggestions made by Members of this House. I had suggested to you more than a month ago that we should start the first phase of social and cultural work and, if necessary, expand it afterwards. We must be very careful not to have another reaction from the Constitutional Court. I'm glad there's a design in the making. This coincides well with the relaxation of socio-cultural work, which will take place from 8 May. Since many activities will be allowed again from then on, I assume that from then on at least the socio-cultural sector will be allowed to re-use the law on association work. We also know, however, that it will be some time before it is approved in Parliament. So I assume that you are already communicating with the sector, so that they know that they will soon be able to make use of this arrangement, once the legislative work here is completed within a few weeks. So I ask you to provide this communication and I thank you for following this piste. You have also indicated that you want to follow the other slopes I mentioned, for the social protection of platform workers. Today, these people often fall between two statutes, which means that they are not or hardly protected. I suggested to make sure that they are at least registered as an employee or self-employed person and you are willing to give that to the social partners. It is only a proposal that may offer a partial solution, and it is likely that other solutions will also be possible. Hopefully, the social partners will quickly come up with solutions to improve the protection of platform workers. After all, the situation of these people is really poignant. I am also looking forward to discussing the final arrangements for association work, because we have agreed that we will have at least a dialogue on this before the summer. Afterwards everything can then be put into legislation, so that the administration has the time to prepare itself, just like the association work itself. We must be able to adapt to the new system, which would enter into force on 1 January.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u72	Minister, it is a good thing that we are taking a step forward for the socio-cultural workers, who have been in favour of this for a long time. I fully understand that an analysis is also needed for other sectors. I am also very pleased that the social partners are asking for an adjustment by the third quarter, in which there are a lot of sports monitors needed in the associations. There will also be a need for an in-depth review of this draft law, in order to assess how we should continue structuralally beyond 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic461x.u73	This concludes our discussions this morning. We meet at 2:15 p.m. for discussions with Ms. Lalieux. I wish you a good appetite and thank the Minister for his presence.
