ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u1	Minister, the G7 has reached agreement on a minimum global tax for multinationals. You were there as the chickens to call that a historic decision on Twitter. I would like to ask you whether that decision is so historic. First of all, what is the impact for Belgium? Multinationals account for more than a quarter of all corporate taxes in this country and are attracted with tax favor regimes, such as the notional interest deduction and the excess profit rotation. Secondly, what about the competitiveness of certain key sectors for our economy? For example, Belgium has been pursuing a fiscal policy for many years to anchor and develop the pharmaceutical sector in this country, for example, through a tax-friendly statute. Thirdly, what is the impact of that minimum tax on the digitals? In the coalition agreement we also received the infamous budget table of purple-green. By 2024, the government will not only count on EUR 300 million from an OCDE tax called Pillar 2, but also EUR 100 million from a digitaks by 2024. The United States, in the context of the G7 agreement on the minimum tax, is demanding that the digitaks disappear in the European countries and that these plans go off the table, while this government is just counting on the digitalaks to close the huge gap in the budget. How do you see the impact on the digitals?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u2	Madam President, Minister, on 5 June, the G7 countries, through their Finance Ministers, agreed on the objective of a minimum tax on multinationals "of at least 15%". On the principle of the mechanism, this is an important further step in the right direction, in anticipation of the forthcoming meeting of the G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors in Venice on 9 and 10 July. The test will have to be transformed, which will require convincing nations such as China and India that are less inclined to move forward on the issue. From this perspective, it is essential to consider this rate of 15% as a minimum. Let us remember that the initial position of the United States, reaffirmed by President Biden, suggested a rate of 21%. It should be noted that a 15% tax will remain higher than a state such as Ireland with its 12.5% higher, but barely. Some do not hesitate to judge this agreement severely for its lack of ambition. This is the case with the Independent Commission for the Reform of International Corporate Taxation (ICRICT), which includes Gabriel Zucman, Thomas Piketty and Joseph Stiglitz, who believe that it would have been better to follow American leadership and that the compromise reflects "the choice of other G7 countries to find a solution to satisfy the preferences of tax havens and protect their own multinationals." Minister, have you mentioned these developments with your French, German and Italian counterparts? If not, is that planned? How does Belgium position itself just over two weeks before the G20 Finance Ministers' meeting? Will you plead for the EU to raise its ambitions for the proposed rate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u3	Mr Minister, I would like to address a particular aspect in this question of the minimum tax rate for multinationals, namely Belgium's first place at European level in the tax avoidance of multinationals. The European Tax Observatory, set up in March 2021 with EU funding and led by Gabriel Zucman, published a study showing the potential gain of a minimum tax rate of 15, 21, 25 or 30% for multinationals. Belgium emerges from this study, since a rate of 15% - which is the minimum option chosen by the G7 - would give Belgium 10.5 billion euros each year. The gain would rise to $15.6 billion at a rate of 21 per cent, 19 billion at a rate of 25 per cent and 23 billion at a rate of 30 per cent. What is particularly striking is that with its 10.5 billion, Belgium is at the top of all the Member States of the Union, largely ahead of Germany and France, which have 7 and 5 times the GDP of Belgium, respectively. If our country is such a magnet for the hidden profits of multinationals, then there must be loopholes in Belgian tax legislation. Moreover, the estimate of EUR 10.5 billion is not far from that of the NGO Tax Justice Network, which sees a return of EUR 7 billion at a rate of 21%, but is in contrast to the estimate made by Luc Batselier of the SPF Finances at a hearing in the House in June 2020, which placed the return on this tax between EUR 75 and 102 million, 100 times less than Gabriel Zucman's estimate. There's margin, of course! And even the FEB had been moved by such a gap, as La Libre Belgique said: "The FEB claims! Minister Van Peteghem, who wants to be the champion of transparency, must be transparent on this issue. It is not normal that no information should be provided on the budgetary impact for the ETF." You know that we are usually not on the same wavelength as the FEB, but in this case, I can consider the request for transparency as legitimate. Minister, what are the elements of Belgian tax legislation that explain our first place in Europe? In this regard, are you considering an analysis to identify the loopholes in our tax law? Can you provide me with the calculations that led to the estimates mentioned by Mr. Batselier or other FPS Finance estimates? Are you planning to commission a study on the impact of introducing a global minimum rate for multinationals based in Belgium, including the differences found in the various studies? A further study may not be necessary, but rather an analysis of the discrepancies highlighted in other studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed this issue several times. I'll tell you the latest information. In their communication of 5 June, the G7 members reiterated their support for the draft global minimum tax currently being developed at OECD level. They also stated that the minimum tax should be at least 15%. As a result of this communication, it is unlikely that the definitive minimum rate will be lower than the above percentage. Both the rate and the other determining characteristics of the minimum tax have not yet been definitively fixed. It is therefore difficult at this stage to estimate the impact of such a minimum tax on the Belgian economy. The tax rates applicable in Belgium are not the only determinant of the tax burden. The allocation key you are referring to is no longer one of the measures currently under discussion. However, I would like to draw your attention to the tax liability rule that is part of the package of possible measures in Pillar 2 that meets the needs of developing countries. In accordance with the coalition agreement, the initiative is supported and will not lose sight of the competitiveness of our economy during the discussion. It is only when technical work in the OECD is further advanced that this can be done in concrete form. As explained in this committee, consultations took place within the Ecofin meeting, which instructed the Commission to develop terms of reference in the light of the G20. In the communication to which you refer, all members of the G7 advocate the withdrawal of unilateral measures on the taxation of digital services in parallel with the implementation of the implementation of the Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 projects. Where appropriate, it will be logical to specify in advance which taxes on digital services will have to be withdrawn. Although this work has not yet been completed, the Commission has undertaken to submit its proposal for a digital tax by mid-July. The figures you mention, Mr Van Hees, may surprise us, but they are not necessarily linked to shortcomings in our tax legislation. They take into account not only the incomes of Belgian companies in our country, but also those generated abroad. The level of taxation of the latter does not depend on our tax legislation. These figures were based on an application distributed by the OECD, but they are no longer reliable due to changes in parameters and the adjustment of the scope of pillars 1 and 2. The study department of the FPS Finance is currently investigating how the budgetary impact can be quantified. It is, of course, a complex exercise, which also requires a number of fixed parameters. So far no figures are available, because these parameters have not yet been definitively knocked off.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u5	Minister, thank you for your answer. We all agree on the necessity and morality of such a tax, which allows everyone to contribute to well-being through taxation. I simply note that all the figures that are wrongly announced are, so far, fantasy. We absolutely cannot prejudge the amount that this measure would bring to our budget. Those who accuse us of presenting fanciful budget figures would therefore do well to draw on them before making such remarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u6	Minister, the statement that this is a historic decision was mainly addressed to Twitter. It is indeed premature to answer a number of questions at this stage. Whether this is ever going to be historic will have to prove later. We'll follow up on the file closely and see how it evolves. As far as the budgetary impact is concerned, the government is counting on many hundreds of millions of euros from these taxes. There too, as an opposition, we will strictly monitor whether the budgetary assumptions, the forecasts and the plans contained in the coalition agreement prove realistic. Our group considers it to be extremely unrealistic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u7	Minister, thank you for this information in response to our questions. The establishment of a common tax system on multinationals is an element that can profoundly change the paradigms in which we have been changing our economy for a long time. I sincerely believe that ambition must be set higher. In this regard, Belgium can act as a driving force to move as far as possible towards the American proposal. As our colleague Piedboeuf said, this is a moral issue. But above all, it is even an issue of efficiency, economic efficiency and the financing of public services that States are supposed to provide to the population, regardless of their level of wealth. So there is not only a moral issue, but also an issue of economic efficiency. Let us be as ambitious as possible on this issue!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u8	Minister, I would like to highlight two points. First, this global minimum rate of multinationals is a very good thing. On the other hand, economist Thomas Piketty, for example, considers that setting this rate at 15% is neither more nor less than the formalization of a genuine permit to fraud for the most powerful actors. From the moment tax rates in Belgium or other countries are at 25%, a rate of 15% represents a differential of 10. This keeps tax havens in place. Secondly, I spoke about possible shortcomings in tax legislation. You are telling me that this has nothing to do with the fact that it is not only about the profits made in Belgium, but also abroad. That's exactly what I wanted to point at. Maybe my question wasn't clear enough. If a multinational company uses tax havens, other than Belgium, it can then use Belgium to boost this tax avoidance in other tax havens through permanently taxed income, exempt capital gains, etc. That is why our country is in the lead. Finally, you did not explain that Belgium is number one in this ranking. In my opinion, that is the explanation. Such fiscal measures, such as RTD or exemptions from financial gains, should be reviewed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u9	Minister, I noticed that you were talking about monitoring our country's competitiveness. The best way to do that is to join forces to achieve an international minimum tax for multinationals. Moreover, such a minimum tax must be substantial and preferably as close to our own corporate tax rate as possible. This is in the interests of our competitiveness, because it means that we no longer have to participate in the current race to the bottom, allowing all kinds of fiscal favors to keep certain companies here or attract investment. If these companies have to pay taxes all over the world, we can compete with our strengths, the talent in our labour market, our productivity and the innovative character of our economy. Of course, we must not sit still in these areas either, which will require the necessary reforms. Minister, you have the full support of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to continue to pull the cart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u10	Mr Minister, Professor De Broe made it clear at the time that this is a measure which will have an effect mainly on the real tax havens, the countries which have no economic activity, with a very large accounting activity. I am somewhat sceptical about the enthusiasm of a number of colleagues for tax rates to be as high as possible. I think taxer plus, c'est trailer moins is not the means to create economic prosperity. We moeten eerder increase the taxable base and reduce rates. That is also the recipe that we expect from the reforms that the Minister will present to us during this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u11	Mr Vice-Prime Minister, I have a question about the National Bank's study on the economic costs of migration carried out under the previous legislature. This very interesting study was completed in November 2020. We held lengthy hearings on it in the Committee on Home Affairs. The study was ordered by your predecessor, Mr Van Overtveldt, on my question. In itself, it is very interesting that we can talk about demographics in our society in an adult way without immediately falling into major theories or polarization. That was very interesting. We've had three study days around the theme. Both on the left and on the right, everyone was, I think, satisfied with the level of discussion and the way in which we debated migration. That's not always easy. It's probably one of the hardest things. The hunger striker's file is now on the table. I notice there's some tension about that in the government. Those are difficult files. Especially when it comes to migration, it's about people of flesh and blood. It's always very sensitive. A follow-up study is needed in our opinion because there are a number of real gaps in the study work provided. One of the biggest gaps is that one does not work with a generational bill, but that one compares some apples with pears. That's a wrong equation. One of the conclusions was that the second generation of immigrants is more profitable than the native generation. That had to be completely re-directed by Mr Wunsch in the hearing. The second generation is generally younger than the native Belgians. So if we look at this over an entire generation, we come to a different conclusion. Then the second generation still costs a lot. So there's still some gaps in it. The cost of illegal migration is also not calculated. There has been no proper study of regions of origin, for example in the Netherlands. The Central Planning Office for Demographics will do that there. We are absolutely asking for a follow-up study. In any case, the debate on demography is too important to be left behind. I know that it has been a long time for some people and that some do not like to be reminded of it, but the signal I picked up at the last elections in 2019 was the signal that we must continue to dare to debate migration, integration and multiculturalism, in an adult way with knowledge and content. With a study by the National Bank, there is indeed content. This is an objective basis for continuing discussions and seeking solutions to the problems in our society. They're ampel, especially in our cities. In Lubbeek that's not so bad, but whether that's not so bad in Sint-Jans-Molenbeek, I doubt it. Will you ask the National Bank to carry out additional research into demography and migration?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u12	Mr Francken, you yourself indicated just now that the assignment for this study was given by one of my predecessors. In order to carry out this study, the National Bank has also been supported by a scientific committee, which will increase the scientific accuracy of this research. The study has, of course, received my full attention and contains some interesting conclusions and recommendations. It is important that we start with these recommendations and conclusions. You know that many of the points raised in it do not fall within my competence or even within the competence of the federal government. That is why I support the initiative of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration to create an Inter-Ministerial Conference on Migration and Integration. There, issues such as labour market policy and education can be discussed with all the competent authorities, in order to work on solutions in this way. At the moment, I have no intention of ordering a new study in the short term. This does not, of course, alter the fact that a similar study could be carried out in the future, should this prove necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Vice Prime Minister, for your reply. I took note of the establishment of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Asylum and Migration. I understand that Jan Jambon, Bart Somers and Hilde Crevits will be there on behalf of the Flemish government. I don't have a problem with the creation of that. Let me note that last week we saw your government's first major draft law on asylum and migration, in particular on the transposition of the student directive, but that there was no consultation whatsoever with the Flemish Government, Minister Weyts and the competent cabinet, let alone with the other Länder. That's what I call a false note or a bad start. The Inter-Ministerial Conference was announced with a lot of poeha, but with the first draft law, the government was already completely screwed up. That's very painful, isn't it? Minister Weyts has already sent a letter to Secretary of State Mahdi, who, two hours before the final vote, has put the Cabinets together. If that is to be an example of federalism, it seems to me to be a bit painful. Furthermore, I take note of the fact that you say that no new study will be ordered, but that you will wait and see. I find that very regrettable, because there are a lot of research questions open in terms of demographics, population evolution and migration, so that is really a missed opportunity. I think we need much more study work to objectify the debate, in line with the government's ambition to objectify the migration debate and to depolarise it for a piece, as I heard during the inquisition debate. Objectivation can only be done with good grades. We have initiated this process with the Swedish Government, and it has now come to fruition. In fact, in my view, you have a moral duty to continue that investigation and to ask additional questions of inquiry to the National Bank. This is really so important for our society, in our cities, in our Flanders, in our Belgium. The debate is so crucial that you simply have to do so. I think you're making the wrong decision and you're on the wrong track. I really hope you'll reconsider that. To that end, I call upon you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u14	Mr Minister, my question may also be of interest to you. Now that the Brexit has been a fact for a while, we see more and more the consequences of it. We see that it has a major impact on Flanders, and especially on East Flanders, for example in terms of redundancies at companies. A 2014 Royal Decree currently provides the possibility to recognise areas where a major collective redundancies have taken place, and this does not only mean dismissal from one particular company; it may also include a series of companies in a 40-mile radius of "disrupted zone'. Today, for example, the whole province of Limburg is regarded as a disturbed zone. What is the importance or the consequences of such recognition as a dislocated zone? Its importance is the fact that a 25% exemption may be granted from the transfer of the farm levy, for a period of two years per additional job created by that investment for a minimum period of three years for SMEs, or five years for large enterprises. Of course, this applies only to companies investing in a business site or in a business centre, and the incubators and some areas with a brownfield agreement in those regions can also benefit from this aid. Hence my very specific questions. How do you feel about recognizing East Flanders as a dislocated zone? Have you been contacted by the Flemish Minister of Work on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u15	Thank you, Mrs Van Bossuyt, for your question. You know the procedure, of course, because you refer to it yourself. The Law of 15 May 2014 implementing the Pact for Competitiveness, Employment and Relance indeed makes it possible to create and propose such assisted areas. A cooperation agreement has been concluded with the Flemish and Walloon regions, specifying in detail how we can achieve the definition of such a zone. When the Regions propose an assisted area, my role as Minister of Finance is rather limited. I have to check whether the conditions of the Law of 15 May 2014 are met, but it is not part of my mission to assess a proposal to define a region of aid itself. Of course, that is up to the regions themselves. The Flemish Region has not yet contacted me about the definition of a new assisted area. If I were to receive such an application, my administration would, of course, take all the steps necessary to assess the compatibility of this question. If it complies with all the legal conditions, we will take all the necessary steps to achieve this. However, as has already been said, I have not been contacted for this at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u16	Minister, we will follow this closely and see if the competent Flemish minister can take an initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u17	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Francken's 55017629C was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u18	Mr Minister, Zaventem airport is located entirely on Flemish territory, but is called the national airport. As a result of the previous privatisation, 75% of shareholder capital is held by large foreign financial groups and 25% remains in the hands of the State through the FPIM. The Brussels Airport Board has six representatives of the private reference shareholders and three of the FPIM. A tenth director shall be nominated and appointed unanimously by the shareholders in accordance with the statutes and shall be the chairman of the company. The general shareholders' meeting took place on 11 May, but what does it prove? There wasn't a single woman named, none. At the three shareholders' representatives there is one Fleming, but two French speakers, for the Flemish airport of Zaventem. Moreover, the delegate is also French speaking. On four Belgian directors there are therefore three French speakers. One of them still has to be nominated. The private majority shareholders have made a nomination for the Presidency, in particular the outgoing Flemish President, but it was, for political reasons, probably contested by the federal government. After all, he was on a list of candidates of the N-VA. In this crisis period, therefore, no chairman was appointed for aviation. It seems to me that the government is doing everything in its power to hinder and damage the airport, which is the second economic engine of Flanders. I have a few questions on this, Minister. Is it still possible that in the case of appointments by the federal government women are so blatantly ignored? After all, I thought that the government had made this a very important point of conflict, both in the formation of the government and when the Prime Minister published his book The Century of Women. Then why doesn't that apply to the airport? Why has the government appointed a number of French speakers in an activity which takes place entirely on Flemish territory? Why and on the basis of what objective arguments has the federal government not accepted the unanimous nomination by the majority shareholders of the Flemish President? What's the government gonna do to get a president after all?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u19	The Brussels Airport Company (BAC) is not subject to the law of 28 July 2011, which amends various laws to ensure that women sit on the boards of the autonomous public companies, the listed companies and the National Lottery. According to the various agreements relating to its participation in the Brussels Airport Company, the Belgian State has the right to propose the appointment of three directors to the general meeting of the companies. The language balance is traditionally found on the government side between those three government directors and the chairman of the board of directors. The delegate driver is out there. At the last general meeting a Dutch-speaking and French-speaking director were appointed. The Presidency should be held by a director who enjoys the confidence of all shareholders. To designate a president, the Brussels Airport Company will organise a procedure with the help of a specialised consultancy firm.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u20	I think it's a little weird. One can say that the law does not apply, but somewhere one has a duty to do what one says. Anyone who wants more women on the boards should set a good example. "A better world begins with yourself" remains a beautiful principle. That should also apply to the government. It is therefore disappointing that no woman is appointed. We are talking about someone who has a lot of experience in the aviation and mobility sector, both at national and European level. Moreover, he is a renowned person, who enjoys a great deal of respect and appreciation and has broad support within the board. As a result of a political game, that person is now being pushed aside. That is particularly regrettable. You're now saying you're going through a desk looking for a president. That will undoubtedly take a lot of time and money. There is someone who knows it well and is competent, and who is also Fleming, but is now being pushed aside. Leaving BAC without President, in the midst of an unprecedented crisis in the aviation sector, which was even heavier than at the time of Sabena's bankruptcy, is a model of bad governance. You probably know that, too. This is mainly about the political balances and, above all, a number of accounts that were still on the table and are now being settled. I find it particularly regrettable that a beautiful company like BAC should suffer for what you are doing with the purple-green government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u21	Minister, Lebanon has been going through the most serious economic and financial crisis in its history for several years. Some predict a GDP in Lebanon comparable to that of Burkina Faso. The crisis has worsened over the past 12 months, first because of the health crisis and then the explosion in the port of Beirut. This tragedy has once again revealed — if still necessary — the endemic corruption that has hit Lebanon and infiltrated all levels of the state. Some are leading the fight like Judge Ghada Aoun, whose initiatives are unfortunately often thwarted. On 16 April, she was thus disbanded for the third time from her financial records by the Attorney General. It is that some seem ready to do anything in order to retain the benefits they derive from the system in place. Every day that passes brings a new illustration. On 27 May, for example, a lawyer, Mr. Alleik, a member of the NGO Mouttahidoun, was arrested and complained about Riad Salamé, the governor of the Bank of Lebanon. It is at the centre of this harmful system which has been in place over the years for the benefit of a few Mr Salamé's suspicions have recently taken on an international dimension. Indeed, it is the target of a Swiss investigation into possible embezzlement of funds. His assets are frozen there. Other complaints were lodged in the United Kingdom and France. In August 2020, a report published by the Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project (OCCRP), a consortium of investigative journalists, and Daraj, pointed to the tens of millions of dollars invested by important Lebanese officials, including Salamé, in the United Kingdom, Germany and at home in Belgium. Mr Minister, in the face of the calamities that befell the Lebanese people, targeted sanctions seem indispensable to us. Blocking the assets of these politically exposed people, this political and economic elite, could be part of it. I would therefore like to ask you, on the one hand, whether you have an estimate of the Lebanese funds hosted by Belgian banks and, on the other hand, what possibilities exist, at Belgian and/or European level, for freezing the sums held by the country's ruling class and for the assets owned by them at home.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u22	Mr Ben Achour, the situation in Lebanon is worrying given the serious financial, economic, social and political crisis. This situation is the subject of discussions at European and international level. With regard to your request for an estimate of the Lebanese funds hosted by Belgian banks, there is no legal basis for us to identify these funds. For good information, two European regulations dating from 2006 impose financial restrictions on the export of arms to Lebanon and on the other hand, measures to freeze funds on persons suspected of the assassination of Rafiq Hariri implementing a UN resolution, but whose list is empty. It falls within the competence of my Foreign Affairs colleague to discuss at Belgian and/or European level a proposal to freeze sums held by the Lebanese ruling class. I therefore suggest that you contact her to follow up on your request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u23	Minister, I have questioned the Minister of Foreign Affairs several times. I believe that a coordinated effort by the government is needed to act against corruption that threatens to collapse the country and Lebanese society. What is happening so disgusts the Lebanese people that the seeds of a new civil war may be sown. This would seriously destabilize the region. So we have a responsibility. The Governor of the Bank of Lebanon owns property at the Châtelain Square in Brussels, estimated at EUR 14 million. He is a Lebanese official and it would be good to be able to intervene through our legislative mechanisms against money-laundering and the fight against corruption. Where do the funds he bought these buildings from? I will continue to follow this file closely. If Switzerland is able to move, if France is moving, I do not see why Belgium would not be able to do so. I insist that this issue should not be neglected and that it should be given the attention it deserves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u24	Unfortunately, it is impossible for me to tell you the number of disputes relating to this problem. After all, my administration has not yet submitted a draft interpretative law to me. My administration is currently examining what legal solutions can be found to this ongoing problem. I will examine their proposals together with my policy cell, with the intention of submitting a detailed draft to the government. There is still a concrete timetable for this. It is indeed very unfortunate that a certain conclusion refers to an unapproved law. I have no idea what conclusion this is and whether there are any other dossiers in which this is the case. However, it does not prejudice the separation of powers, since any new law still has to be approved by Parliament before it is of any value in a dispute.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u25	It is a pity that you cannot give figures on the number of attacks that are effectively contested. I think it is a good thing that the remark that there is an interpretative law in the making is not correct, because it would therefore apply to the past. The N-VA Group is therefore looking forward to the initiative you will take, which will apply exclusively to the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u26	Madam President, Minister, you are right to make a point about the further digitisation of the FPS Finance. One of the important aspects in this field is the exchange of information with, among other things, the numeral professions. In an earlier answer to a parliamentary question, you pointed out some pending projects, such as SAF-T, which allow for the digital export of important accounting data and then convert them into an Excel file. It also establishes a system to which the cloud system of the rating professions can be linked or read. It can't just happen, it has to be through an interface, an API, so that the data can be exchanged properly. The field is currently being finalised in order to allow the various software packages to'speak' with each other. Minister, what is the current state of the project? When do you expect the systems to be developed and operational? To what extent has the privacy and security aspect of that system been investigated and what is the result?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u27	Madam President, Mr Matheï, the project to develop an application programming interface, an API, for some of our main e-services, such as MyMinfin, Biztax and Intervat, is still in the early stages. In August, a business case will be submitted asking for the resources to realise the project. After screening the needs, costs and benefits, there will also be a clearer view of the timing within which the project can be realised. APIs should facilitate the exchange of data between systems so that the number of manual treatments by the end user is also kept to an absolute minimum. The project is also in line with the OECD's vision set out in its report of 8 December 2020, the Tax Administration 3.0, The Digital Transformation of Tax Administration, where technology is a tool to achieve process integration. Of course, the privacy and security aspects will be further developed in the course of the project. After the summer recess I hope to be able to give you more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u28	Mr Minister, it is indeed important that we should be able to use technology as best we can, because that is in favour of both the administration, the taxpayers and the numbers professions. Together with you, I look forward to the further roll-out of the APIs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u29	Mr Piedboeuf, may I ask you to substitute me for the presidency for the next question, which is Mr Piedboeuf's. Van Hees? Even if he is my Vice-President, he will ask his question and I have to go for the plenary and for a question in another committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u30	Minister, De Tijd newspaper of May 29, 2021 indicates that the active manager Geert Noels resigns from the Royal Donation Board of Directors after serving on the Board for 12 years. Without giving more details, Noels pointed out in his resignation letter that "Donation is now facing major challenges, particularly in terms of management and transparency". According to the daily newspaper, "Noels no longer supported malfunctions". The Donation "would treat its staff inadequately, both in terms of remuneration and management. While Noels was exploiting new sources of income, there was no limit to spending on the improvement of royal properties, while Donation allowed its other properties, such as its farms in the Ardennes, where ordinary people live, to deteriorate." The Chairman of the Board of Directors, Jan Smets, reacted in the Finance Committee this week. He says they're going to define values. Do you intend to talk to Mr. Noels about the exact reason for his resignation? Since this is the umpteenth example of failure at the Royal Donation, would it not be time to request an in-depth audit of the institution, for example by the Court of Auditors or the Federal Administration Audit Committee (FAAC)? The above article also states that "a proposal by Hans D'Hondt - who, as a senior finance official, sits on the board of directors - to transfer a large part of the property that the royal family does not use to the Régie des Bâtiments - was badly received by the rest of the board of directors". What is your position on this proposal? I had a fourth question, but it is no longer relevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u31	Mr President, I thank Mr. Van Hees for his attention to the proper functioning of the Royal Donation. In his resignation letter, Mr. Noels stated that he felt that other people were better placed than he was to be a member of the Royal Donation Board of Directors. I believe that this motivation is sufficient. I therefore endeavour to fill the vacancy. As you know, the Royal Donation is both controlled by my administration and by the Court of Auditors. On the basis of their findings, there is no indication that an audit is required. I also refer to the Royal Donation's initiative to be guided in the transition to double accounting and in its decision to comply with International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) in order to report in an internationally recognized framework. As I told Mr Vermeersch on Tuesday, June 1st, I will not comment on the interpretation made by the media. I also refer to the explanations given at the parliamentary hearing yesterday with the representations of the Royal Donation. The new president, Mr. Jan Smets, set up his reports and also explained the mission and values of the Royal Donation. It is not up to me to do it in his place: I have every confidence in him.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u32	Minister, I take note of your answer. You say that, on the basis of the Court of Auditors' reports, an audit should not be carried out. I would point out that, in the past, the Court of Auditors has criticized the Royal Donation's accounts. I would also point out that double accounting has been launched for 2020, but most of the assets are still not valued. It is the real estate property built, which is still not nothing, with regard to the Royal Donation. The castles are not yet in accounting. At the hearing of Mr. Smets, in which I participated this week, he did indeed express the values he intends to defend within the Royal Donation. On the other hand, he did not provide any real answers to Mr. Noels' and De Tijd's assertions. It can be assumed that what De Tijd writes is what Mr. Noels said off. There is no specific answer to these serious charges. I've been reporting them. I take note that for you there is no need for further analysis. I'm worried about the management of the Royal Donation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u33	Mr Piedboeuf, my administration is aware of the problems faced by the various economic operators because of the health crisis linked to the coronavirus and the impact it may have on the fulfilment of their tax obligations. This is why many support measures have been adopted to help taxpayers and to overcome the difficulties associated with the health crisis. By way of illustration, as regards income taxes and VAT, the following measures can be mentioned: - certain allowances which are awarded by the Regions, Communities, provinces or communes as a result of the covid pandemic whose exemption is extended until 31 December 2021; - the extension of the tax shelter covid-19. In its original form, this measure consisted of a tax reduction on individuals for those who participated in the capital of companies that had experienced a significant decrease in their turnover during the first wave of the pandemic. This scheme is being reorganized and applied to companies seriously affected by the second wave; - the abolition of the VAT deposit to be paid in December and a temporary reduction in interest on arrears and interest on moratoria; - the temporary reduction of the rate of the fine from 15 % to 10 % in the event of non-payment and late payment of VAT, the liability of which is due from the periodic declaration lodged or the establishment of a special account; - individual carry-overs on request of the payment of personal tax, corporate tax, professional discount and VAT for companies that can prove that they are affected by the pandemic. If, as a result of the crisis, taxpayers are unable to perform certain transactions or obligations within the statutory time limits, they may apply to the Agefisc and request an additional time to complete the said transactions or obligations. Since the specific situations and circumstances in which taxpayers and taxable persons may find themselves may be different, my administration will assess, on a case-by-case basis, on the basis of the facts before it, if such an additional period should be granted. As a reminder, I instructed my administration not to recover the tax and non-tax debts of companies that were in good health before the coronavirus crisis and that have only accumulated debts since January 1, 2020. This moratorium, in force since the beginning of February 2021, has been extended until 30 June 2021. As from 1 July 2021, in order not to compromise the economic recovery, a strategy for the gradual resumption of recovery measures was prepared. In this context, my administration will be very flexible to allow businesses to resume paying their tax and non-tax debts without compromising their operations. In order not to distort competition, my administration will ensure that only those companies that have been affected by the coronavirus crisis do benefit from this flexibility. Thus, debtors, who are unable to pay their tax and non-tax debts at one time, will always be able to request a payment plan via myminfin or another channel, e.g. email or mail. In this context, my administration will be able to grant payment plans lasting longer than usual: up to 24 months for companies affected by the crisis, which can be extended up to 36 months in duly justified exceptional circumstances and up to 50 months for large companies. As regards registration and inheritance fees at both federal and Walloon and Brussels regions, in the context of the crisis, two circulars have already been published. These circulars provide for administrative tolerance in certain areas of registration and inheritance fees at the level of the above mentioned Regions. In general, force majeure should be assessed on a case-by-case basis. The administration has put in place several measures of administrative tolerance vis-à-vis taxpayers in the temporary impossibility of meeting certain deadlines. With regard to indirect taxes levied by the General Customs and Excise Administration, tax measures to support operators have also been introduced. This is an extension of the time limit for the payment of excise duties, the packing levy and VAT on alcohol and alcoholic or non-alcoholic needs. The deadline has increased from one to four weeks. The measure is extended until September 30, 2021 for excise duties and the packing levy. Interest on late payment of the same national taxes has also been reduced and is calculated at an annual rate of 4%. Finally, it was decided to grant the refund of excise duties on outdated beers. That, Mr Piedboeuf, is all the measures that have been taken in favour of businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for this very long and detailed answer. Apart from all the measures that have been taken by you and the government, I note that you have given the administration instructions for leniency on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u35	What initiative will you take to ensure that your administration respects Belspo's binding opinions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u36	Mr President, Mr Donné, the exemption from the transfer of the withholding tax on research and development is only one of the risk indicators and is often a cluster of other risks when applying the exemption from the transfer of the withholding tax. In order for my administration to operate efficiently, the exemption from the transfer of the company advance levy is jointly subject to tax control, in particular following the control action exemption from the transfer of company advance tax. The adjustments resulting from this control action shall be reported globally and not by risk indicator. At present, therefore, the data relating to this action cannot be broken down by type of exemption granted. As I explained on 1 June in this committee in reply to Parliament's question No. 55017179C is working on improving its monitoring to ensure that in future reports can be made on the results of the aforementioned control action by type of exemption. As regards your question on the opinions of BELSPO, I can confirm that, in principle, an opinion of BELSPO issued in accordance with the legal provision of the WIB 92 and in accordance with the implementing provisions of the Royal Decree linked to that Code is binding. Why, in certain cases, the tax administration does not take into account the advice of BELSPO, I cannot say without consulting the specific dossier itself. In order to address a number of concerns in the field, discussions are under way with the Secretary of State for Relance and Strategic Investments, who is also responsible for science policy. I therefore hope to be able to come up with a relatively short-term initiative on this subject which can increase legal certainty in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u37	Minister, we look forward to these initiatives with impatience. 'Research & Development' is an important element in attracting and keeping international players here. You, too, have always said that this is important. It would therefore be a pity if a certain attitude on the part of the administration were to hinder that. I understand that you are working on a number of texts to remedy this. We're looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u38	Minister, I wanted to come back with you to the circular that the BNB adopted at the end of 2020, introducing a reporting of the energy performance of real estate that is the subject of mortgage credit in Belgium. If these new obligations are adopted with a laudable objective, namely the participation of the financial sector in the climate transition, they could, however, lead to damaging consequences. Of course, on the basis of this circular, banks should not simply take advantage of it for less favourable borrowing rates when the BEP for the good is less good. Such a policy would be totally unacceptable, as it would once again affect young people and less fortunate people, who turn mostly to the least expensive goods for purchase. Most of the time, they are the ones with the lowest energy performance. This attitude of banks would be all the more discriminative in that it would be in addition to the capital requirements which are already applicable and which mainly affect the same public, for whom the possibility of becoming owner is already largely compromised. In this context, have you been aware of the intention of some banks to apply interest rate differences based on the BPI of the purchased property? If so, are you considering taking measures to prevent such discriminatory practices from taking place?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u39	Mr President, Minister, it is with some hesitation that I am asking this question. After all, I have no solar panels or heat pump. I still heat my house with fossil fuels and have no batteries or an electric car. The EPC score of my home will probably not be that high. As Mr Bayet said, since the beginning of this year, the Belgian banks have been required by the National Bank to obtain the energy score of the property for which the loan is made for each new credit that they allow. Also for loans closed since 2017, the outstanding amount of which is still more than 85% of the property's value today, they need to request the EPC. For the time being, this is a purely administrative reporting obligation in the context of the risk analysis that banks have to make of their real estate portfolio. The energy transition in our society naturally plays an unmistakable role in the value of homes. The banks are already playing into that. Belgian market leader BNP Paribas Fortis already establishes a link between the energy score of the house and the interest rate. So it is already being dealt with, Minister. It could have social consequences. By the way, there is a danger of a great loss of heritage if we go too fast on that path. What are your views on the possible impact of the EPC on tariff setting or even on the granting of housing credits? Does this not threaten to penalise financially weaker buyers? Can you explain more about the issue of the circular of the National Bank?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, buildings make a significant contribution to greenhouse gas emissions in Belgium. Both the National Energy-Climate Plan and the Long-Term Climate Strategy refer to buildings and the transportation sector as key sectors in which additional measures can be taken to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in order to achieve climate goals. According to the National Bank of Belgium, the energy performance of real estate investments in buildings financed by financial institutions may pose a threat to the transition risk to which the Belgian financial sector is potentially exposed. As part of its mandate to maintain financial stability in Belgium, financial institutions are now asked to request or collect the EPC value of their real estate exposures, if available, so that they can carry out risk analyses and take them into account in their own risk management. The European Central Bank is also of this opinion and will carry out a stress test in 2022, and banks are also expected to have this information. If these analyses were to show that improved energy efficiency of buildings is associated with a lower credit risk, institutions could reduce their interest rate on energy efficiency credits, thereby stimulating the renovations needed to achieve climate objectives. In this sense, the availability of EPC information will help Belgium achieve its targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and improving the energy efficiency of its housing stock. Although the renovation costs necessary to prepare the energy efficiency of the building park will be higher in relation to income for less well-off families, the granting of a discount to stimulate energy-efficient renovations can help such families to help finance such renovations, by reducing the cost of lending for those energy-efficient investments. At the same time, energy costs for these families will fall dramatically after such conversion. I therefore share your concern and will ensure that taking the EPC score into account does not result in higher interest rates being charged for less well-off borrowers, or has the effect of creating an additional threshold to buy your own property.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answers. We can only rejoice at the different wills to reduce the consequences of greenhouse gases, but this can of course only be done for the richest among us. As you said, it would be better to grant a bonus to the most vulnerable of our citizens so that they can buy housing and participate in this reduction in greenhouse gases. Minister, I am counting on you. Such discriminatory measures must be stopped and efforts must be made to help everyone better combat global warming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u42	Minister, there are obviously two sides to the coin. You light up one side and I light up the other. I can only agree with my colleague who is also very concerned about the possible consequences for less well-off borrowers. I hear you share my concern, but we are still far from that social, inclusive transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u43	Minister, I have already asked several questions about temporary unemployment benefits. With the return of tax returns, we receive more and more alarmist testimonies from people who will have to pay very high tax supplements due to a reduction of the occupational discount to 15% on temporary unemployment. You did not want to take this problem into consideration, despite multiple requests. What I want to talk to you about today concerns a very specific aspect, which is the cause of these difficulties. You know that the PTB has tabled a bill to allow separate taxation of unemployment benefits to avoid these tax supplements. The FGTB and CSC delivered opinions on this text, stressing the need for legislation. Besides the one-time problem - hopefully! - the corona crisis, one of a more general nature, which concerns the tax reduction for replacement income. This mechanism is currently too restrictive. Articles 146 et seq. of the Income Tax Code are not adapted to the situation of temporary unemployment. On the one hand, Article 147, 8th horizontally limits the amount of the tax reduction in proportion to the share of unemployment benefits in total income. Therefore, it is problematic when wages are found there. On the other hand, Article 151 provides for a vertical limitation of the tax reduction when the total income exceeds EUR 23,710 and completely abolishes it when it exceeds EUR 29,600.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u44	For workers who have been temporarily unemployed, the cumulation of benefits and income from work very often exceeds EUR 29,600. As a result, it completely loses the benefit of the tax reduction for replacement income. This is the case, for example, of a worker whose earnings reach the median wage equivalent to 3,361 euros gross (much less net). If he is temporarily unemployed for six months or a year, the reduction is completely abolished. These situations were more frequent in 2020 because of the covid crisis. But even out of crisis, when we get out of it, the problem will remain. Minister, do you not find that these rules applicable to tax reduction for replacement income are too restrictive and that it would be appropriate to amend the legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u45	Mr Van Hees, I will be very brief because I have already answered parliamentary questions on this subject on several occasions, explaining why we cannot follow a proposal which aims to impose temporary unemployment benefits separately or to make the occupational prepayment retained free. The proposal you have submitted here also raises too important legal and technical problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u46	Minister, you say you've already answered. But I have been very careful to take a very specific aspect of the problem. I'm asking you about the rules for limiting this replacement income reduction. Do you not find it problematic that it is not applicable to temporary unemployment corona or outside the corona period? You're not answering. I take note of your non-response and do not accept the assertion that you have already answered this aspect in my second question. You don't answer that!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u47	Mr. Piedboeuf arrives with four questions in a very brilliant and flamboyant way. I give him the floor for his first question. We will then chain with the following.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u48	In the circular in question, the part concerning the tax of natural persons refers in fact to corporate tax. From this, it can certainly not be inferred that the provisions on abnormal and voluntary benefits that apply to corporate tax and profit are also applicable to profit recipients. That's not the case. As far as profits are concerned, the reference refers only to deductibility as professional expenses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u50	Mr. Piedboeuf, the adjustment coefficient is determined annually for the purposes of the first indent of Article 13 of IARC 92 concerning the determination of net income for real property. The coefficient is obtained by dividing the average value of commercial rents and rental benefits on January 1st of the previous year, the value of which is the tax year, by the average value of these rents and benefits at the reference time determined in section 486 (January 1, 1975). Since the 2002 tax year, in consultation with the relevant offices and with the approval of successive ministers, a simplified method has been applied on the basis of the results for the 1985 and 1988 tax years, which were obtained through field research. According to this method, the 1985 adjustment coefficient (2,25) is adapted on the basis of changes in the health index. The administration awaits the publication of the health index for the month of December of the year preceding the year in which the new coefficient is published and then completes the calculation for the next tax year. After the calculation, the new adjustment coefficient is submitted to the Finance Inspectorate for advice. Then he's sent to my office for approval. The current file is now at this stage. After that, the publication of the royal decree follows. This publication is a formalization of the annual calculation and takes place before January 1 of the tax year. There are no statutory or regulatory deadlines or penalties for the timing of this publication. It is therefore possible that other files may be treated as a matter of priority within the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u51	Madam President, I understand the minister's answer, but it does not explain why there are such delays in the provision of information. There are sometimes emergencies, but this sometimes puts a number of professionals in difficulty as they are waiting for this coefficient. If the minister could recommend that his administration ensure that the figure is communicated earlier, that would be extremely nice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u52	Madam President, Mr. Piedboeuf, the difference in the tax system between crisis bridge and recovery bridge benefits for beneficiaries of profits or profits can be explained by the fact that these two fees relate to two distinct tax realities and are based on different sections of the Income Tax Code 1992. In the event of a forced interruption of the activity following the crisis of the covid, the compensation under crisis bridge law is granted. They may be taxed as compensation for or in connection with a forced act which may result in a reduction in professional activity or in profits or profits. This tax system provides, under certain conditions and to some extent, a separate tax of 16.5% except when globalisation is more favourable. Resumption bridge benefits, on the other hand, are intended to support the restart of certain sectors without the requirement of an interruption of activity. They constitute compensation for total or partial compensation for a temporary loss of profits or profits. This tax system provides for taxation at a progressive rate, with the benefit, if any, of a tax reduction. Second, if the regime for the taxation of crisis bridge benefits is different depending on whether you are a business manager or an independent person, or a beneficiary of profits or profits, it is simply because the legislation does not contain any provision subject to a separate tax rate of such allowances when they are obtained by business leaders to compensate for a reduction in their business. Therefore, the different taxation regimes between the crisis bridge and recovery bridge legal allowances, as well as between business managers and beneficiaries of profits or profits, are based on different legislation and objectively different situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u53	Thank you, Minister. It is therefore a legal discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u54	As Mr Josy Arens was absent, his question No 55018755C became moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u55	Minister, a press conference in front of you revealed that this year, 2.5 times as much cocaine has been intercepted in the port of Antwerp. Almost 55 tonnes were found in 2021, which appears to have killed the record 65 tonnes by 2020. The fact that so many drugs are still coming in shows that the cocaine trade, of which only a fraction is eventually intercepted in the port, is flourishing despite the fact that the corona crisis is happening or perhaps we should say it. What measures will the government and will you, as Minister, take to reverse the trend? Are the people, resources and powers of the customs authorities being further increased? At the end of 2020 it appeared that less than 2% of containers were checked. What's the current percentage?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u56	In the port of Antwerp about 20,000 containers per day are handled. In 2020, this amounted to as much as 231 million tonnes of goods. A risk analysis shall be carried out by customs for all such containers and a selection shall be made of containers to be checked. The operation of customs is constantly being optimized, and this is also paying off. By the end of May, almost 54.5 tons of cocaine had been intercepted by customs. Six additional portable backscatter scanners have recently been received. In September, two additional mobile backscatter cargoscanners will be delivered. Additional purchases will also be launched under the 100 % scanning project. As regards staff expansion, the staff plans 2021-2023 provide for 108 additional recruitments. As regards the level of control question, in the first quarter of 2021, 2,38 % of the import containers were checked in the port of Antwerp. I stress that this happens after selection on the basis of a risk analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u57	Thank you, Minister. 2.38 % is still a hallucinant low percentage. I have often engaged in international trade and have worked with a lot of ports, and I think I know that the percentages are higher there. I do not know if you can see that, but perhaps I should ask a written question about the percentages that other countries achieve. As far as I can see, some ports have real infrastructure to systematically scan large volumes of containers. I think it is absolutely a working point to increase the percentage over the next few years, if we really want to tackle this billion-dollar business. This will effectively require more people, resources and powers for customs. We will continue to argue for this as a group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u58	Madam President, Mr Donné, as foreseen, the call for applications is made by the administration and published in the Belgian Official Journal after approval. The judgment of the Council of State of 17 March 2021 has recently destroyed the temporary designation of the French-speaking members of the College. However, the destruction of the appointment of the College members of the Fiscal Conciliation Service is structural. The Council of State destroyed that appointment for the first time on 22 May 2017, after which the then Minister of Finance appointed the same persons in September 2017. This reappointment was renewed on 14 March 2019, after which two other persons were temporarily appointed with the Royal Decree of 8 July 2019 as the government was in progress. As you say, these temporary appointments have also been destroyed. In response to those annulment judgments, a regime was introduced in July 2018 which automatically extends the terms of office of all members in the event of a reappointment following an earlier destruction of the appointment of a member. In practice, it appears that that scheme may disproportionately extend the initial, normal five-year term of office. Judgments of destruction state an infringement of the Law of 29 July 1991 on the express justification of administrative acts, which may be used to conclude that the current appointment procedure does not comply with those legal provisions. The government, which is faced with this structural problem, set out in the rules governing the operation of the Fiscal Mediation Service itself, is examining the possibility of adapting the rules in such a way as to provide a structural response to the Council of State's judgments on destruction. I asked the Chairman of the Fiscal Conciliation Service about the situation of the cases you described, but she could not provide any information. It goes without saying that this will be closely monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u60	Mr Minister, in my oral question of 1 June last on the payment of the benefit of any kind (ATN) for the use of business vehicles, particularly in the construction sector, you have confirmed that "when a vehicle is made available free of charge to a worker and is used by the worker to move between his home and a place of work, this free provision actually generates an advantage of any kind taxable in his head. The concept of a workplace as mentioned in the Income Tax Code has been interpreted from the outset as a fixed place of work. Moving from home to a fixed place of work is a travel which is the personal responsibility of the worker. It has long been accepted that a work place, if any, a work site, where a worker is employed for less than 40 days during a taxable period, should not be considered a fixed place of work." Minister, you are saying that this is an interpretation and that it has long been accepted by reference to the Income Tax Code. In order to apply this interpretation, tax auditors are going back until 2016 to claim thousands of euros from workers who were not informed of this rule. You were speaking in your answer to legal certainty, but this rule is the opposite. This really is an injustice to some people who benefit from a full-fledged corporate vehicle regime and who are being claimed an TNC. What article of the Income Tax Code defines the 40-day rule? Why is it only applied now? Why is it only in 2021 that tax auditors have been demanding this backlog, since 2016, of the benefit of any kind to workers who meet the 40-day test? Moreover, in view of the covid rules, is this not quite aberrant since the health measures required construction workers to travel alone for many months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u61	Mrs Matz, the 40-day rule is not taken as it is in the Income Tax Code 1992. This is an administrative rule which is based on the fact that, when an employer makes a vehicle available to a worker who uses it to make travels for which he is personally responsible, the latter derives an advantage of any kind. The cost of moving a worker to a fixed place of work is normally borne by him. In practice, there has been a lot of discussion in the past about the concept of "place of work". Employers and workers insisted on a clear and useful definition. For this reason, the administration has drawn up the 40-day rule, which is to admit no more than a place of work which is not the principal, but where the worker is employed less than 40 days during a taxable period, does not constitute a fixed place of work for him, so that the journeys he makes between his home and that place can be regarded as business trips whose costs are the responsibility of the employer. The provision of a vehicle for such movements does not give the worker any benefit of any taxable nature. This rule has been applicable since the issuance on 6 December 2007 of the circular that introduced it and was nuanced by the former Minister of Finance on the occasion of a parliamentary question asked on 13 February 2008. There is no provision for any control action in particular related to ATN by the risk management services in the use of business vehicles in the construction sector. As a result, no specific guidelines for the treatment of this TNA or arrears have been issued. This rule is largely prior to covid-19 and is based on a foreign fiscal logic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u62	Minister, thank you for that clarification. As you mentioned, there is therefore no legal basis as such but an administrative practice. This still does not explain why tax auditors are at the task of controlling this rule at the level of construction companies. It goes without saying that someone who has a vehicle and who can use it in the evening and on the weekend is not put in the same conditions as someone who goes to the workplace with a construction vehicle and stops driving with that vehicle on Friday night. It's very discriminating. These are workers who are going to claim relatively large amounts of money, especially as we have been doing this backwards since 2016. I don't understand. Indeed, you say that the administrative rule is well before 2016. It is thousands of euros that are being claimed by workers in the construction sector to their total detriment and it is the great general surprise in the construction sector that has never heard of this rule, since the tax auditors are now beginning to claim this outside of logic, considering that the health rules - I understand they were alien - make it impossible for the vehicles to be occupied by more than one person. This necessarily required an ATN. I confess that I am completely stunned by this administrative fact and that this is subject to recourse either by certain employers who take charge of these measures for their employees and workers, or by the workers themselves. This administrative practice seems totally beyond the nails, especially since the legal basis is extremely fragile. Moreover, it has been claimed since 2016 without any basis with this retroactivity very harmful to those construction workers who pay, like many workers, already a heavy toll in relation to the crisis covid.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u63	Madam President, Minister, on your party's website we read: "CD&V launches action plan to combat tax and social fraud." It's kind of a weird title. After all, one would expect a title like "Minister Van Peteghem launches action plan against fraud" or "Government launches action plan against fraud." Of course, you launched these proposals in the government's lap. This is a 29-point plan. Have those 29 points been calculated yet? Is there going to be a division between tax fraud on the one hand and social fraud on the other? What timeline is set for those 29 points? What objectives do you want to achieve in the short term, in the medium term and in the long term? When will the measures be translated into legal texts? Of course, we're very impatient. When can we expect this in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u64	Madam President, Mr Vermeersch, with the adoption of the first anti-fraud action plan of the College for the fight against tax and social fraud, the government continues its fight against fraud. This action plan is part of a wider range of anti-fraud measures involving many public administrations. It is an integrated plan that is committed to increased cooperation, coordination and exchange of information in order to pursue synergies and bring results to our public services. Just by focusing on this integrated and integrated approach, the proceeds of the fight against tax and social fraud will also not be unambiguous. It is therefore not useful to allocate these additional budgetary revenues to one of the two categories. However, we will ensure a proper follow-up. This first action plan will be followed by a follow-up report in an on-board table. Each initiative and each of the 29 projects in our plan has been awarded a project leader who is responsible for monitoring the achievement of the goals set. The action plan therefore requires both administrative and legislative interventions, each with their own timeline. The various public administrations are currently working to implement this plan effectively. For example, the pilot project on monitoring large construction sites will have immediate results. For projects requiring a legislative initiative, such as the promotion of electronic payments, more time will be needed. Let me make it clear in particular that the plan is a first, very important step - I will not use the word 'historically' - in the fight against tax and social fraud and the reporting that has been included in the College. However, the story does not end here. The Ministerial Committee has already asked the question and approved the College to prepare a new action plan for next year's second action plan. As you can see, we are continuing our efforts to continue fighting fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u65	Minister, I have heard many buzzwords, namely synergies, integrated approaches and so on. We are, of course, looking forward to the point where all this will become concrete. I also asked about the budgetary calculation of these measures, but that is not in fact my intention. It was the approach of your government, which, by 2024, puts EUR 1 billion in income first in the fight against social and fiscal fraud. You also referred to a kind of board table and I will put a written question to obtain it. We will continue to follow this dossier with particular attention, in order to see whether you will also achieve the objective you have set yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u66	Madam President, Minister, our Income Tax Code stipulates that payments made by companies and taxable persons to persons established in a State which does not apply the standard of data exchange or does not apply sufficiently. In a parliamentary question to your predecessor in 2014, it was said that when this happens to residents from countries that are partly in line with the standard, they are not subject to reporting obligations. A recently issued circular creates confusion and gives the impression that payments to countries which are partly in conformity are subject to reporting obligations. Minister, do you have to report this situation or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u67	Mr Matheï, Article 307 of the Income Tax Code deals with jurisdictions that have received a rating non-compliant or partially compliant. These tax transparency criteria have been strengthened for a number of years and have also been adopted by the G20. In doing so, a jurisdiction that receives a partially compliant rating is not considered to comply with the international transparency standard and will, for example, also end up on the EU blacklist. In that respect, there is no longer any difference from a non-compliant rating. The credit rating partially compliant shall be granted by the global forum where at least one material deficiency has been identified which in practice has or is likely to have a significant impact on the exchange of information. As you rightly pointed out, the legal text does not refer to non-compliant but to a state which does not effectively or substantially apply the standard for the exchange of information on request. This also includes partially compliant jurisdictions as a result of developments in international standards. It is difficult to argue that countries which only partially comply with the standard apply them effectively and substantially. This position has also been clarified by my administration in the circular of 1 September 2020 so that it applies to the declaration from the tax year 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u68	That's very clear. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u69	Minister, the Belgian Investment Company for Developing Countries, BIO, has an investment in the palm oil company Plantations et Huileries du Congo. The company is one of the largest private employers in that country. Already in 2019, research by Human Rights Watch revealed that Feronia, the mother of the Congolese company, violates the rights of personnel and dumps waste in nature. I recently asked Mrs Khattabi if she knew of any other investments by the Belgian government in the palm oil industry. For an answer to this question, she referred me to you. Is the Belgian government investing, directly or indirectly, in the palm oil industry today? If so, can you give me an overview of these investments?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u70	Mr Raskin, the FPIM has no direct investment in the palm oil industry. Through the Belgian International Investment Company, the BMI, the FPIM has indirect assets in this sector. The BMI has provided a subordinated loan to Siat SA worth EUR 5 million since 2017. The BMI has been following Siat since the beginning of the 2000s and has invested in several projects, often together with other European Development Finance Institutions. The Siat group supports the palm oil industry in Nigeria through the company Presco whose shares are listed on the Lagos Stock Exchange. Siat owns 60% of the shares in Presco. Siat has invested in Presco because Nigeria is suffering from a large shortage of palm oil. The group thus tries to increase the production of palm oil in Nigeria to meet local food needs. In many African countries palm oil is the first fat used in the local food sector. Developing the palm oil sector is one of the Nigerian authorities' objectives to fill local deficits. This palm oil is therefore not exported to Europe. Presco is one of the most important players in this market. Siat strictly follows the standards of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil and publishes an annual sustainability report. The BMI regularly follows up its investment through a visit to the subsidiary of the group and has no knowledge of any violation of the rights of personnel or of any dumping of waste in nature.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u71	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. There are a number of companies, a number of percentages, equity shares as well. I'll review that quietly. We must continue to pay attention to the palm oil dossier, because it represents a worldwide consumption of 73 million tonnes per year. It's a lucrative business, palm oil is really everywhere. There are a number of advantages, of course, to which you have referred, but there are also disadvantages. Hence Human Rights Watch's report on palm oil production in Indonesia two weeks ago. Palm oil is partly produced sustainably, we must preserve that nuance, but that is certainly not always the case. The proof of this is repeated stories about companies that are in dispute. Thank you again for your answer. I will take a look at the list, but I think we agree that we clearly cannot tolerate the fact that the Belgian government would invest directly or indirectly in unsustainable palm oil industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u72	Mrs Gijbels is not present for her question No. 55019032C. At the request of the Minister, we are taking a short break.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u73	Madam President, Minister, trackers or listed index funds are popular investment products that invest in a stock exchange index. But behind these simple products lies a tax treatment that is extremely complex in Belgium, how else can it be done in this country? Apparently, there are three different rates for the stock exchange fee. The criteria for determining which rate applies to which tracker are apparently not interpreted in the same way. One of the elements involved is the country where the tracker is registered. If that is our country and if the tracker does not pay dividends, the investor pays a stock market fee of 1.32 % both when buying and selling. If the capitalization tracker is not registered in Belgium but is registered in another European country, the investor pays a fee of 0.12 %. In the case of a distribution version which does pay dividends, a stock exchange fee of 0.12 % applies in both cases. For this reason, several tracker providers indicate that they only register the distribution version of the tracker in Belgium and not the capitalization version. In this way they think they are avoiding the market tax of 1.32 %. According to the FPS Finance, the registration of a tracker should be done at the level of a compartment that bundles the capitalization and distribution version of a tracker. This means that once a compartment is registered with the FSMA, both versions of the tracker are labelled as registered. This is all very technical and, in any case, there are different interpretations among providers and banks. According to the sector, there are fewer and fewer trackers likely to be registered in Belgium, with the result that more investors on the stock exchanges seek their own way to unregistered trackers. Mr. Secretary, how do you respond to this report? Will you also look at these taxes and taxation in the broader tax reform you are working on?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u74	Madam President, Mr Ravyts, the trackers referred to in this question are for the application of the tax to stock exchange operations, collective investment undertakings, joint investment funds or investment companies the shares or units of which may be the subject of a public offer in Belgium following the registration of the institution or one of its compartments with the FSMA. The tax on stock exchange transactions shall be applied in the same way to transactions with shares or units of a tracker as to transactions with shares or units issued by another investment company or other common investment fund as referred to in either Part 3 of the Law of 19 April 2014 on alternative collective investment undertakings and their managers, or Part 2 of the Law of 3 August 2012 on collective investment undertakings fulfilling the conditions laid down in Directive 2009/65/EC and institutions for investment in debt. This means that transactions with capitalised shares issued by an investment company which can be considered as a collective investment undertaking within the meaning of Article 120a (1) of the Code are subject to various rights and taxes at the rate of 1,32 %, whereas the rate of 0,12 % applies to transactions with units of the capitalised type issued by a common investment fund which can be considered as a collective investment undertaking within the meaning of the same Article. I can emphasise that the provisions of financial law provide for a subscription to the FSMA of a collective investment undertaking or one of its compartments and not of its shares or units. In this case, the application of tax law is linked to the registration provided for in the common law. Finally, I will instruct my administration to examine whether the system of fees on stock exchange transactions should not be adapted to eliminate the differences that exist according to whether or not those CBs are referred to in Part 3 or Part 2 of the aforementioned Laws of 19 April 2014 and of 3 August 2012. I answered the question about the designation of the coordinator on 5 May. This coordinator will draw up a vision paper on investment tax as part of taxation. Consequently, this tax will also be examined in the context of the broader fiscal reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u75	Minister, you read very quickly, which makes translation difficult. Maybe you could talk a little slower from now on?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u76	Mr Minister, this investment tax is, of course, a very technical matter. I hear from the Minister that this will be part of the vision paper. I will also provide this highly technical response to my contacts in the investment sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u77	Minister, the National Bank has recently published a circular on the obligation to exercise vigilance with regard to repatriation of funds from abroad and taking into account the tax regularisation procedures in the application of the anti-money laundering law. It is an important circular, because you will recall our debate on the report by the Court of Auditors, which involved some EUR 40 billion in black capital in Belgian banks' accounts. This capital has flowed to it mainly in the context of previous regularisation rounds. At that time, it was possible to regularise the income on the capital, without regularising the underlying capital itself. The time limit for the tax limitation period is 7 years. However, money laundering is not a criminal offence because it is an ongoing crime. As banks play an important role in this, Vooruit already advocated a greater commitment to the control powers of the NBB. We are therefore very pleased that the NBB is now giving clear instructions to the banks with the circular and instructing the financial institutions to conduct an internal audit of their current and previous monitoring procedures with regard to the repatriation of funds. The NBB shall also undertake, where necessary, to draw up an action plan to review the repatriations concerned as soon as possible. Minister, what insights and policy slopes do you attach to the circular? How does the circular relate to your anti-fraud action plan? It is quite possible that internal audits will trigger a new stream of cases for judicial investigation. To what extent do you discuss this with your colleague in charge of justice? Do you take into account that internal audits can show that there is a systemic problem with the quality of supervision of banks and the adequacy of the applicable procedures for reporting money laundering? What are the possible consequences of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u78	Mr Minister, as you know, the Court of Auditors has issued a detailed report to assess the returnee's money on Belgian bank accounts during the various single release declarations (SDRs) without this money being declared. According to the Court, more than EUR 40 billion of black capital would be included in accounts held in Belgian banks. This is possible since, in some LUDs, it was possible to regularize the income of a capital without regularizing the capital in question. We have tabled a motion for a resolution to try to move forward on this issue, but another possibility is indeed to investigate the origin of the funds, as the BNB seems to be asking in a new circular. Money laundering is a crime that is not subject to statute of limitations. It is therefore interesting for banks to act to determine where this money comes from. Minister, what role will the NBB play when the banks conduct the requested investigations? How will it monitor the proper conduct of such investigations? What role can prosecutors play or will they play in this case? What impetus does the government intend to give - in a dialogue you will enter into with the Minister of Justice - for the prosecution to deal with cases? Will the Advance Rulings Service work with the judiciary and the NBB to move forward as quickly as possible? Finally, what budget returns do you think are possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I support the initiative of the National Bank of Belgium to draw up, as a supervisor, a circular clarifying the applicable rules and expectations. The framework was defined by the National Bank of Belgium. I therefore expect the sector to fully cooperate in the proper implementation. The National Bank of Belgium has sufficient instruments to act if an institution defaults or fails to comply with the provisions of the circular. The Court of Auditors' report on the tax regularisation procedure was discussed in detail in the Finance Committee. Your particular attention was paid to the estimation by the Court of Auditors of the repatriated tax-deprived capitals, for an amount of about EUR 40 billion, which would not have been included in the regularisation declaration during the previous one-off release declarations, EBAbis and EBAter. Less attention was paid to the Court of Auditors' recommendation to strengthen the fiscal power of the public prosecutor and the court in order to allow a more active policy of prosecution of tax fraud. The College's action plan for combating tax and social fraud, approved by the government, provides an initial response to this. The College will develop a legal framework to enable consultation and cooperation between the public prosecutor, the federal judicial police and the tax administration in order to combat serious and organized tax fraud, with maximum focus on the fight against organised crime. As you know, there is now a legal restriction on consultation and cooperation between the tax authorities and the public prosecutor's office. Thus, for the BNB, collaboration with the regularisation contact point is impossible for reasons of professional secrecy. It is true that the application of circulars, in particular with respect to former money repatriation operations, could result in a flow of former money laundering files to CTIF. In order to transmit to the Public Prosecutor's Office, there must be serious evidence of money laundering. However, the older the acts of money laundering or tax fraud committed, the more difficult it will be for CTIF and the judicial authorities to conduct research. At this stage, it is premature to speculate on the results of the surveys carried out by banks and life insurance companies. The circular provides that, if deficiencies are identified, the institutions should draw up an action plan to address them. It is up to the supervisor to take appropriate action in the event of identified shortcomings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u80	You have rightly drawn attention to the Court of Auditors' recommendation to strengthen the power of taxation in the courts and the courts. I encourage the government to respond to that. Mr Van Quickenborne has announced an important increase in people and resources, including for this purpose. With regard to the circular, I still expect some bank directors to have a potentially annoying conversation with a number of customers who repatriated black money at the time, regularized the income on it and did not think that black money itself, and thought they were reassured. I am very much looking forward to the samples that banks now have to do for past files and I am looking forward to any systematic shortcomings and action plans that might result from them in order to close the shortcomings. I am counting on additional research to be carried out in the event of shortcomings and on the public prosecutors to be able to do justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u81	Minister, I think we really need to put double bites on this file. It seems to me that there is a matter of mobilising all the services which are, in one way or another, in charge of combating financial crime, money laundering and tax fraud. It is necessary to mobilise, whether it be your administration - in particular the ISI - or the Minister of Justice and Public Prosecutions, in such a way that there can be an impetus at the level of justice. Of course a number of institutions have their independence, but they nevertheless have tasks assigned to them by law. I am thinking in particular of the anti-money laundering cell. The BNB is also assigned, by an organic law, the task of regulating the banking sector, of prudential, micro-prudential and macro-prudential supervision of the banking sector, with, let us recall, a circular on specific mechanisms. It is therefore absolutely necessary to take stock of the situation. I am thinking of the agenda of the famous Coordination College to see what can be done. We must go to the end of what is legally possible, because, as you know, we find ourselves in a particularly difficult financial situation. No one could conceive that the public should be asked to make further efforts through compulsory levies and increases in them, even though a manna of money is linked to major tax fraud, and tax fraud in general, particularly in the area of prescribed and unprescribed black capital. I hear what you're saying to me, minister, but I really think that we have something to move forward with this issue to try to ensure that there are revenues based on an effective fight against money laundering and tax fraud more generally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u82	Mr Minister, a former tax collector was sentenced to a prison sentence and a fine for hoarding, embezzlement and money laundering. The man left the money people brought to his office to clear their tax debts in his private account and then didn't transfer all the money to the IRS. This way of working makes the eyebrows frown, but what I noticed in the judicial reporting about it in the newspaper, was the plea of the lawyer who argued, and I quote: "There has been a practice in which employees opened their private account because people came to the office who paid their tax debts with cash money. Their account was used to transfer the money. If that practice does exist, it seems to me to be extremely problematic and it opens the door to abuse. Is it true that the use of private accounts by tax administration staff as a means of collecting tax debts in cash is a practice that is applied? What control mechanisms exist to avoid such abuse within the tax administration?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u83	Mr Vandenbroucke, the alleged practice to which you refer does not exist. Thus, since the introduction of the Royal Decree of 27 August 1993, cash payments of tax debts are legally no longer allowed long before the established facts dating from 2009 to 2014. During the period when cash payments were still admitted to the receiving office, there was a very specific procedure for transferring funds to the office account, which under no circumstances implied the use of the accounting officer's private accounts. Such a specific procedure also existed for the collection of cheques. Since 2015, the collection and recovery departments have been separated and entrusted to separate accounting officers. Thus, among other things, the 'four-eyed principle' has been formed. The payment system First, currently used by the tax administration, allows efficient monitoring of the movements between the accounts with which the system operates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u84	Thank you very much, Minister, for your very clear answer on which there can be no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u85	The tourism sector, after this difficult period, needs it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u86	Madam President, Mr Piedboeuf, your question relates to the activity of a VAT-payer who provides kayaks for the descent of a river. You are asking more specifically whether this activity can benefit from the reduced rate of 6% provided by law for the provision of services which consist of the granting of the right of access to cultural, sports and entertainment facilities, and the granting of the right to use them. The reduced rate therefore applies to the operation by which the operator of a cultural sports or entertainment facility gives access to that facility against payment of an entry fee, either to spectators or to athletes. It must therefore be a matter of an installation within the meaning of a space or a place to which users are granted access. Since the reduced rate of 6 % constitutes a derogation from the normal rate of 21 %, the provisions which provide for the reduced rate of 6 % for certain supplies of goods or services must therefore be interpreted in a restrictive manner. A taxable person whose activity is the provision of kayaks to persons who wish to descend a river does not operate a sports facility in the sense that I have just specified by which he grants the right to use it. The taxable person simply makes available movable goods (kayaks) with certain services which may be ancillary to them, such as the return by coach or the provision of toilets. The provision of services therefore falls outside the scope of the provision which provides for the reduced rate of 6 % for the granting of the right of access to cultural, sports and entertainment facilities and the granting of the right to use them. Where no other provision provides for a reduced rate for the provision of such services, the latter shall be subject to the normal rate of 21 % at present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u87	Minister, a public-private partnership for the right of access to the river would therefore be necessary! This would allow the difficulty to be circumvented.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u88	Question No 55019102C by Mr Christophe Lacroix is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u89	Mr Minister, my question is not about kayaks but about CAP law, banking secrecy and our privacy. The banking secret has been eroded in our country for years. The first move towards an asset register dates back more than ten years ago, when the Central Contact Point or CAP was established. The December 2020 Programme Act requires banks, as you of course know, of the current government to report the balances of accounts and financial contracts to the CAP. In December 2020, the Flemish Interest strongly opposed this measure here in Parliament. Privacy activists are moving to the Constitutional Court today against the further restriction of banking secrecy. Not only the Flemish Interest but also the Data Protection Authority had warned about this. According to the privacy activists, a silent asset register was introduced and that constitutes a mockery of our right to privacy. They certainly have a chance to have that part of the program law destroyed. We're inclined to believe they'll succeed. I don't know if you're a regular reader of Trends. There was a very interesting interview with the litigants. It reads as follows: "The collection of the account balances at the Central Contact Point should help to avoid costly recovery procedures and ensure a fairer tax system. Neither the parliamentary preparation nor the legal text itself explains how the extension of the CAP to the balances and the globalised amounts of financial contracts will contribute to this." That's what the lawyers had recorded in the Trends magazine. That is why I am putting my question to you today. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u90	Mr Vermeersch, following the opinion of the Data Protection Authority 122/2020 of 26 November 2020 on the provisions of the Programme Law of December 2020, which concerns the obligation to provide information to the Central Contact Point (CAP) of the National Bank of Belgium, a number of clarifications were communicated to the Data Protection Authority and included in drafts that were also submitted to that Authority. In particular, reference can be made to Border Points 8 to 11 of Opinion 14/2021, in which the Data Protection Authority made no comment. As far as recovery is concerned, this measure makes the procedure for confiscating much more efficient. Through this search of the CAP, the recipient can avoid blind bank deposits on accounts with a negative balance or clearly insufficient positive balance to settle debts and avoid the cost of the unnecessary procedure. It should also be noted that the possibility of consulting the balances of accounts already exists for non-residents. Thus, on the basis of the multilateral convention on mutual administrative assistance in tax matters of the OECD and the Council of Europe, the Common Reporting Standard requires countries to communicate financial information about their tax residents to third countries, including the balance of accounts held in Belgium. The balances of non-residents' accounts are thus reported to the FPS Finance for tax purposes. Within this frame of reference, taking into account the provisions of national law, the aim is to enable the aforementioned consultation of balances with the effective fight against fraud. This clearly contributes to the fairness of our tax system. Those provisions of national law ensure proportionality of the consultation by the CAP tax administration, as that procedure has not been amended as regards the situation before it. The consultation of the balances thus remains, as before, focused on the assumption of suspected fraud and on establishing taxes in a more precise and correct manner. The decision thus reinforces even more the fairness of the tax system, in particular with regard to taxable persons who fulfil their reporting obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u91	Minister, like the lawyers, I still think it is vague. In your reply you also refer to the Data Protection Authority. In the meantime, perhaps you have already been able to look at the interview on Channel Z in which the advisor of the Data Protection Authority reiterated her advice. He literally said that it is a particularly far-reaching and dangerous centralisation of the most sensitive financial data of the entire Belgian population and that the Data Protection Authority has therefore given a negative opinion up to three times. We are looking forward to seeing you, too, but in the other sense, what the Constitutional Court will start with the procedure that we believe the privacy activists have quite rightly initiated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u92	Mr President, before answering Mr Vandenbroucke's questions, I would like to point out that the pandemic only started reporting on 1 January 2021. On 24 June 2021, the FPS Finance received 599 notifications of cross-border arrangements from tax advisors and other intermediaries or relevant taxpayers. As foreseen in the Directive, the European Commission has made a secure central database available to its Member States for administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. The mandatory cross-border arrangements must now be kept in this central database. On 19 May 2021, other Member States charged 1,476 notifications in this secure central database, for which Belgium was designated as the relevant Member State in the reporting cross-border arrangement. Given the reporting obligations have been postponed due to the pandemic, the technical functionalities to make the data accessible to the control agents and analysts who will carry out the risk analysis are still being developed. Once this application is ready, additional data can be reported, including the impact these reporting obligations may have on tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u93	Minister, that pandemic has clearly had an impact on everything, and therefore on this. I'll come back to this in normal times.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u94	Mr Minister, Tunisia is a nation with which Belgium has had a strong connection for a long time. A new proof of this particular relationship will be given at the re-entry with the State visit of President Kais Saïed. Tunisia is currently experiencing a multiplicity of crises: economic crisis, political crisis, migration and health, while the country is currently experiencing very difficult – it is an understatement – the third wave of the epidemic of covid-19 and announced, on 20 June, a new general confinement in four regions. I have often argued for Tunisia to become a partner in our development cooperation. Unfortunately, this has not been possible so far. In the meantime, the socio-economic situation is dramatic and requires a strong response. I would remind you that in 2020, GDP fell by 8% and the tourism sector fell by 68%. When you know the importance of the sector to the country, it's huge. In the first quarter of 2021 unemployment reached 17.8% and in the 15-24 age group it rose to 40% for men and more than 41% for women. Minister, there are many ways to help a friendly country. If the cooperation partnership is one, the conversion of one part of the debt in order to devote the sums thus released to development projects is another. As far as Belgium and Tunisia are concerned, such an operation has already taken place for a total amount of EUR 3 million. The agreement was signed in 2019 and the projects selected jointly. Should we not once again consider this track that would have a strong symbolic value in order to respond to the urgency of the moment? This emergency, as you know, is multiple. What are the other options that would allow us to financially support Tunisia?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u95	Mr Ben Achour, Tunisia is indeed facing major social challenges. These predate the covid crisis but, as elsewhere, this crisis exacerbated these problems. After the strong negative growth of the Tunisian economy in 2020, with GDP falling by more than 8%, largely due to the collapse of tourism, growth of 4% is expected in 2021. In the coming years, this growth will fall to about 2 per cent, which is too little for a developing country like Tunisia. These low long-term growth rates show structural weaknesses in the Tunisian economy. Tunisia would therefore benefit from support that would attack them. In 2020, Tunisia requested support (545 million special drawing rights) through the IMF's Quick Financing Instrument to provide rapid support to countries with urgent balance of payments problems and to which no full programme is attached. At the time, it was anticipated that Tunisia would also seek support under the IMF's extended financing facility linked to a structural reform programme. The Tunisian authorities had recently established contact with the IMF for that purpose and technical discussions were under way. The conversion of debts in which debts are converted into financing development projects has, in fact, a symbolic value. As mentioned, Tunisia needs structural support more than symbolic initiatives. However, debt conversion is a long and complex operation. It took several years for the conversion of the previous debt to be operationalized. A conversion of bilateral debts that is not part of a broader multilateral initiative (such as the support given after the Arab Spring which served as the basis for the conversion of previous debts) may put us in a difficult position within the Paris Club. At this stage, I do not exclude a further debt conversion in favour of Tunisia, but such an operation would preferably be part of a multilateral approach to Tunisia's more structural problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u96	Minister, I am glad that you do not exclude this mechanism a priori. I also note that, among the criteria required for such an operation, you cite the Arab Springs, in a multilateral approach. I also stress that Tunisia, among the countries that have attempted a democratic revolution, is the only one that still has a chance to succeed in this democratic transition. So she has a huge need for support. It is a country that is now mired in enormous difficulties, which could have dramatic social, societal and political consequences. This would be somehow leading this country into the failure of its revolution. For almost 30 years, Tunisia has been a partner in Belgian cooperation. Unfortunately, this was stopped in the 2000s. Tunisia's bilateral debt to Belgium is approximately €27 million. ENABEL has just decided to open an office in Tunisia, where it will certainly act on behalf of the European Union, but all the same, in addition to a physical presence of ENABEL, which will re-establish itself there, there is a whole series of converging bundles and opportunities that must push us to go in the direction that I indicated and that you yourself have not ruled out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u97	Minister, a memorandum of understanding has recently been proposed to the staff of the General Customs and Excise Administration. Customs officers have been widely solicited in recent times, either because of Brexit or the pandemic. They have seen their workload increase and new missions assigned to them. Unfortunately, however, it would appear that this Memorandum of Social Agreement was not able to satisfy customs officials and was rejected by trade union organisations. It is in my view essential to show the customs officers our respect for them, recognizing the quality of the work they do and listening to their demands. That is how we will achieve a balanced agreement, which is acceptable to those working in the customs administration who are the only ones who know the reality on the ground. Minister, can you provide us with details of the measures that have been proposed under the agreement provided to the General Customs and Excise Administration staff? Can you also give us the reasons why this protocol was rejected by the unions? What customs officials' claims have not been met? How many meetings have you held with customs officers on this protocol? What concrete measures do you intend to propose to improve the well-being and working conditions of customs administration staff and thus reach a solution in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u98	Mr Minister, I wanted to ask you about the disapproval expressed by the common union front of customs officers of the memorandum of understanding you proposed to them. Don't you fear a social movement of customs officers for this summer? Not later than today, a Belga dispatch told us that the customs officers of the Port of Antwerp were already conducting a strike of zeal to express their discontent. I quote the dispatch: "According to them, the Minister of Finance, Vincent Van Peteghem, makes no concrete commitment regarding additional recruitments, better conditions for their retirement and fairer wages." In short, their demands are clear. Obviously, you have submitted proposals to them which, to be heard, are largely insufficient. Minister, are you aware of the social malaise that is being expressed? What is the origin of the blockage on your side, in order to reach an agreement? Are you going to make new proposals to the unions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u99	Colleagues, a commitment has been made in the protocol to fill, as much as possible, the posts opened under the current staff plan, including confirmation of the 1/1 replacement for control and shift functions and additional efforts for future staff plans. As part of the 100% scanning project, an additional personal credit file is introduced. Several cases on specific working conditions have also been included in the protocol, such as active services, the introduction and revision of a number of allowances and allowances, such as the introduction of a uniform cleaning allowance, a motorcycle allowance, as well as the revision of the weapons allowance and the filthy work allowance, and the adoption of the Working Time Act for some specific services within the AMD&A. Finally, the protocol also included measures concerning restructuring and centralization of certain services within the AMD&A and shift work. Unfortunately, the request for priority vaccination of customs officers could not be met. Meanwhile, the general vaccination campaign is already well advanced. Overall, the unions have indicated that the annual linear reduction of staff credits will be problematic, both in the implementation of the regular staff plans and in the "100% scanning" project. They regret that priority vaccination has not been successful. They also regret that restructuring is not stopped. Most of the files included in the protocol are still in progress. The comments of the unions are taken into account as far as possible in the subsequent follow-up of these files. Regular consultations are held with trade unions at different levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u100	Minister, I hear your commitment to support the staff plan and to support a whole range of new allowances and allowances. It is a pity that we could not put forward the vaccination of our staff earlier, when he was confronted with regular contacts. I share their fear of a linear reduction in appropriations for staff. We know that they are already overloaded and I believe that we must try to find a solution in order to fill the framework. As you know, this is valid in all sectors: restructuring is always scary and it can be understood. Minister, I hope that you will put the double bites to reassure all our agents and ensure that we reach a balanced social agreement. I am counting on you and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u101	Minister, I have had several times the opportunity to highlight the problem of staff downsizing in the FPS Finance. We remember that you claimed a FPS Finance as thin as possible. This is a problem for customs officers in particular, but also for the FPS Finance as a whole. As far as customs officials are concerned, you see that the proposals you have made to them – and you have reminded us – clearly do not satisfy them. Today there is an action at the port of Antwerp. This is likely to continue, or even increase, this summer. We're waiting for other proposals from you. So far, what you have proposed is clearly insufficient. You have to go beyond that. I asked you if you were going to review the proposals you were going to make, increase them, listen to them better? Obviously, that is not the case. Clearly, you are going to confrontation, Minister! We might see the consequences this summer. They are already perceptible today!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u102	This question is similar to that put to you by my colleague Joris Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u103	Mr Bayet, these are the same numbers. The answer is the same as I gave Mr Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u104	Mr. Minister, I had no idea. I will come back to you when we have a little more experience on this directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u105	Minister, cryptocurrency requires the permanent operation of a large number of computer processors, which implies considerable electricity consumption. The University of Cambridge has estimated that the electricity consumption of a country like Belgium is equivalent to 57.82 % of that of Bitcoin. Minister, can we get you back on this issue? The European Central Bank recently published a report on the possible creation of a European digital currency inspired by cryptocurrency but one of the contributions could be to reduce the carbon borrowing of the monetary and payments system currently employed in Europe. Note, however, the lack of information mentioned on the nature of the technology that could be used. Can we have your point of view on this project, on the technologies that can be used and on its possible climate impacts?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u106	There are still many ambiguities regarding the environmental impact of cryptocurrency. It is clear that a currency like Bitcoin consumes a lot of energy relative to other cryptocurrency. The energy intensity varies depending on the consensus protocol used. Bitcoin uses the so-called proof of work protocol. Several central banks, including the ECB, are exploring the possibility of creating and using digital currencies. It is not yet known whether the digital currencies of central banks will generalize or how they will function exactly. Finally, it remains to be seen what new technologies will be developed in the future. In my view, central banks should approach this innovation with an open mind. They can play an important role in encouraging the most environmentally friendly technologies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u107	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u108	Mr Minister, on 13 April 2021, the NGO ClientEarth commenced legal proceedings against the National Bank of Belgium (NBB) before the Brussels Court of First Instance. More specifically, ClientEarth asked the court to question the European Court of Justice on the legality of the European Central Bank's buy-back programme in which the BNB participates. As this programme is accused of promoting activities that are sometimes very polluting or linked to fossil fuels by very large companies, it would violate the obligation to support the Union's economic policies, including those relating to the fight against climate change supported by the European Treaties. Minister, can we have your feedback on the issue of the sector's responsibility to finance climate issues? On 11 May 2021, Minister Khattabi stated that her administration, in collaboration with yours, launched the initiative to develop a Belgian green finance strategy, that the policy options on which the strategy will be based are being developed with the support of the European Commission and that this strategy will focus on "greening" financial flows, both private and public. Minister, can we get more information about this strategy? Can we be informed about how to "green" financial flows?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u109	Mr Senesael, as regards your comment on ClientEarth, I refer to the questions put in this committee on 5 May and to my answer. I do not want to comment on the proceedings brought by ClientEarth against the National Bank of Belgium since this is the implementation of a programme set up by the European Central Bank within the framework of the monetary policy of the European system of central banks. I note, moreover, that your questions do not concern the action of the central banks. The expectations for the financial sector in the transition to a low-carbon economy are twofold: firstly, a responsibility for managing risks and maintaining the soundness of the financial sector; and secondly, a responsibility for accompanying and facilitating the transition. First, banks are expected to make every effort to manage the risks associated with the transition. The National Bank has on several occasions alerted and recommended that the sector take the necessary measures to this end. More detailed information on these recommendations can be found in the 2018 and 2019 National Bank's Financial Stability Report and its 2021 macroprudential report. With regard in particular to the real estate sector exposures, also at the international level, supervisors and regulators of the financial sector are taking many initiatives in this regard. One can for example think of recent and future exercises of resistance tests, stress tests, carried out at European level. Of course, the financial sector is also expected to support and facilitate this economic transition by providing adequate financial services without neglecting the associated risks. Many initiatives have been taken, notably by the European Commission, with regard to taxonomy, disclosure, etc. With regard to your second question on the Belgian sustainable financing strategy, I can answer the following. The strategy will have two target groups: firstly, the government, as an investor in various companies, by encouraging these companies to take sustainable measures, the amount invested will have a leverage effect and sustainable initiatives will have an impact on the various aspects of the economy; secondly, the financial sector, which has a considerable influence on business activities and can therefore have a direct and indirect impact. The federal government has received support from the European Commission. With his help, we will lead to a realistic but nevertheless ambitious strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u110	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u111	Question No 55019377C by Mr Gilles Vanden Burre is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u112	Mr Minister, the G7 agreement on the taxation of multinationals is particularly disappointing with regard to pillar 1, which is to determine in which countries the profits of a multinational are to be taxed. This agreement would seriously limit the share of taxable profits in the countries in which they operate. Only 20 % of the share of profits exceeding the profit margin of 10 % would be concerned, i.e. a double limitation. The UK NGO TaxWatch calculated that the application of this rule to Amazon, Facebook, Google and eBay's activities in the UK would result in taxation that is less than or equal to their current level of taxation in that country. However, this G7 agreement is conditional on the diktat, we must dare this term, imposed by the United States on the European Union and other countries to waive taxes of the type "GAFAM tax". Thus, one wonders how to interpret the agreement of the Belgian federal government stating: "A form of digital taxation must come into being. Belgium will take the lead in discussions on this subject at international level (OECD/EU). An international agreement will be privileged. If such an agreement cannot be reached within the OECD and the European Union, Belgium will introduce a digital services tax in 2023." Mr Minister, at European level, will you defend pillar 1 as a result of the G7 agreement or a more ambitious version? If the international option for the pillar is that of the G7 and the European Union does not go beyond that, will Belgium introduce a digital services tax in 2023, as mentioned in the government agreement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would stress that an international agreement on the taxation of multinational enterprises must be concluded, not within the framework of the G7, but within the inclusive framework of the OECD and the G20. This inclusive framework, which brings together 139 States, will meet tomorrow. Only then will we know whether it is possible to reach agreement on the broad lines of pillar I. In the hope that an agreement can be reached tomorrow, it will be ratified by the G20 on 9 July and the work will then resume until October to finalize all the details of the project. The elements you mention in your question are therefore not yet certain. In any event, it is clear that, since the beginning of this project, the withdrawal of existing national measures to impose digital services and the prohibition of the application of such measures in the future will be one of the essential elements of an international agreement. As stipulated in the government agreement, Belgium will introduce a national digital services tax in 2023 if an agreement on digital services is not concluded by then at international or European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u114	Minister, thank you. If I hear correctly, my question is premature and I should have waited until tomorrow to ask it, although no final decision will yet be taken. I hear your answer. Indeed, you tell us that in 2023 and without agreement, there will be a tax. My question was whether there will be a tax with an existing agreement even if it is insufficient. I understand and deduce from your answer that, whatever the content of the agreement, if there is one, Belgium will not introduce its own digital tax, even if it is totally disappointing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u115	Mr Minister, on 7 June the Ministerial Committee on Combating Tax and Social Fraud released a first "Action Plan for the Implementation of a Coordinated Anti-Fraud Policy". Among the actions envisaged, the government wants to tackle the abuse by non-artists of the favourable tax regime applicable to copyrights. Your plan states: "It has been found that the broad definition allowing a broad scope of application has contributed to the emergence of a market in which some companies actively encourage their potential customers to apply the copyright system in their regular operation; this is only because of the favourable tax and parafiscal regime, and not because of the original objective of the scheme." This form of tax pick-up is shocking, but the same is true when it comes from the FPS Finances. Indeed, some of the abuses of this type go through a ruling, an advance ruling. The Annual Reports of the Anticipated Decisions Service (ADS) show that copyright is the most important subject of regulation after the employer's own costs. In 2020, this applies to 227 ruling requests (10% of the total) and 331 prefiling requests (14% of the total). However, by consulting the website teleseminar.be, one discovers among the offer of tax training, a three-hour training, for 119 euros, given by Véronique Tai, who is also a member - and former president - of the SDA College, its decision-making body. The presentation states that "this new Teleseminar gives professionals the keys to offering the most favourable tax regime to their copyright-receiving customer". Minister, do you envisage, in order to implement your anti-fraud plan, reviewing the criteria applied by the SDA in its copyright rules? Is it normal that a member of the SDA College, by being paid by a private firm, contributes – in the words of your anti-fraud plan – to the emergence of a market in which some companies actively encourage their potential customers to apply the copyright system? Is it normal that, advising clients to get rulings, this person is also a member of the College that grants them, thus finding himself both judge and party? Would it be possible to imagine that a taxpayer's tax controller is also his or her accountant?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u116	Mr Van Hees, it is true that the approved anti-fraud action plan announces an adaptation of the copyright taxation system. In the coming weeks and months, we will be working within the government to adapt the current legislation and then discuss it in Parliament. As soon as this amendment has been made, the Anticipated Tax Ruling Service will also have to take this into account when making its decisions. As already mentioned on the occasion of a previous parliamentary question, the intervention of highly qualified administrative technicians allows its partners – including companies – to better understand the legal provisions and is carried out in accordance with specific regulations. The P & O Management Service actively monitors applications for cumulation, including in practice, and verifies that the staff member scrupulously complies with the conditions set out in the P & O Management Service. Thus, in his intervention, the grievor will have to confine himself to explaining the theoretical and regulatory aspects of the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u117	Minister, you still understand that a serious problem arises when the same person, the same senior official, participates in seminars where he explains how to take advantage of the ruling system by means of all the tricks and strings to introduce a file, and then goes to sit in this College that will decide the ruling requests that are submitted to him. You can see that this person is a judge and is gone. But you continue to support this confusion of roles. This is a matter of great concern to me, because we are faced with a marked conflict of interest. You should take care of this kind of problem seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u118	The NGO FairFin published last May a dossier revealing that "the occupation of the Palestinian territories generates money for banks in Belgium". FairFin examined bank investments in Belgium in 3 of the 112 companies that, according to the UN, do business in the occupied Palestinian territories through Israeli settlers: Alstom, Motorola and Booking.com. The association found that BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank and KBC have invested €6.8 billion in the three companies in question since 2014. I do not give you the different amounts of the three banks in the three companies, but in total these amounts amount to 6.8 billion euros. Yet, FairFin explains, it is well known that these companies make profits in a context of illegal occupation and war crimes. Through their financing, our banks also benefit from the products of colonization. This is all the less acceptable as these three financial institutions claim that human rights are a top priority in their investment policy. "As the main shareholder of BNP Paribas, our federal government is also not blameless. It is time for Finance Minister Vincent Van Peteghem to put the bank back in the right direction." It is a translation of the Dutch, but that is the spirit. Mr Minister, do you not consider that it is up to you, as Minister of Finance, to ensure that banks do not invest in occupied territories in flagrant violation of international law? Let us recall that Israel is violating several dozen UN resolutions. A fortiori, as regards BNP Paribas, whose Belgian state, via the SFPI, seems to be the first shareholder, will you instruct the two directors appointed by the federal government to defend this position on the bank's board of directors?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u119	My colleague, as regards a general position of the Belgian Government on the Israeli-Palestinian problem, I refer to my colleagues in Foreign Affairs. But I can tell you that my party and I are pursuing a clear policy of differentiation between Israel and the territories occupied by Israel. I am thinking here, for example, of the treatment of goods from the occupied territories. As for your specific question, I have no information on the exact nature of the activities of the companies mentioned, with regard to investment decisions taken by private companies. I therefore expect financial institutions to comply with generally accepted ethical, social and environmental standards, and of course the applicable legal rules, and I am obviously actively advocating this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u120	Minister, thank you for your answer, which says quite disappointing. You just say that you expect banks to comply with generally accepted standards and legal rules. What standards? We don't know. The question is specific. It concerns the occupied territories. You say that your party is sensitive to this question. I do not understand that, as Minister of Finance, you do not intervene with these different banks present in Belgium, and a fortiori, that you do not instruct the state administrators within BNP Paribas to punch on the table and to demand explanations or even changes in the bank's policy. You have not answered anything on this point. I don't understand. You still have a power. You're the first shareholder of this bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u121	Minister, Dubai is one of the world's worst tax havens. Among the Belgian list of 30 tax havens to which company payments must be reported, Dubai is largely in the lead in terms of amounts. Dubai is in particular a hub for diamond-related trafficking and fraud, which is also known to be important in Belgium. In the recent past, the Belgian press has dealt with cases called "Dubai Papers" (cf. my written questions 360, 536, 537 and 661, the last three of which remained unanswered). Last February, the German government purchased, from an anonymous source, the tax data of millions of people holding assets in Dubai. Data that the German Ministry of Finance intends to analyse in order to find fraudsters. But these data also concern millions of taxpayers around the world. The German tax authorities are therefore trying to send this information to the States concerned. In the past, Belgium has repeatedly obtained tax information from other countries, but we have few returns on the way and extent with which they have been treated. In the Dubai case, did the Belgian tax authorities contact the German authorities to obtain information about Belgian residents? If so, where are we? How many data will they be (or have they already been) transmitted by Germany? How long? What are the results of the Belgian tax system in the other cases in which Belgium obtained information from abroad? For each of the cases below, can you specify the number of tax investigations, the number of cases with supplements, the total amount of supplements, the number of cases handled by the Court? - The data of the 50,000 accounts held by Belgians with the Banque et Caisse d'Epargne de l'État Luxembourge, transmitted in 2016 by the tax administration of Rhine-North-Westphalia. - The 5 000 Belgian customer data of the UBS - for which a criminal transaction has just been granted - by the tax administration of North Rhine-Westphalia. - The data of 2,500 clients of Crédit Suisse, transmitted in 2020 by the Intelligence and Tax Investigation Service (FIOD) of the Netherlands via the National Financial Prosecutor's Office of France. - Data on Belgian residents involved in Panama Papers, transmitted in 2020 by the tax administration of the Land of Hesse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u122	3. Finally, does the Belgian tax also purchase a database when possible? If not, do you intend to develop this practice like your German counterparts?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the above information, the German Federal Minister of Finance has been contacted to verify whether information concerning Belgian residents is available. It turns out that individualized statistics are not available for information on the Bank and Caisse d'Epargne de l'Etat, but the data have been processed and attached to the taxpayer's file. With regard to UBS, 118 investigations have been carried out, of which 13 are still under way. The number of supplements amounts to 24 for an amount of EUR 2,524,078. No cases concerning Crédit Suisse were registered under this code. As for Panama Papers, 266 investigations had been carried out, of which 16 were still under way. The number of supplements amounts to 61 for an amount of 26,085,399 euros. While some of these results appear to be limited, this is due in particular to the impossibility of identifying taxpayers and the requirement acquired in many cases. In addition, some of these cases are dealt with in criminal proceedings and may be prosecuted by the Public Prosecutor's Office, which has other possibilities than the tax administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u124	Thank you, Minister. Your answer was very quick about Dubai. If I understand correctly, a contact must be made with the German tax authorities. Do you confirm that? Don't you have more information at this time? I hope that Belgium will not have to suffer from a delay, as has been noted in other cases of the same kind, about which you have given information. Indeed, these results do not seem to be very important. We will analyse them in more detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u125	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, even if it is very short. The German tax authorities indicated that they made data available to other countries on States, including Belgium. In your answer, I did not understand the status of these contacts, how many people were involved and whether there were Belgian taxpayers. Finally, you did not answer my question about the practice of purchasing data when possible, as Germany did. I understand that this approach with Germany can still evolve. I will come back soon with questions, when the results can be communicated to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u126	Minister, several press releases have recently relayed an analysis of the PTB's study service on the presence of the business community in the ministerial offices of the De Croo government and the possible conflicts of interest resulting therefrom. In response to my written question No. 99 of 23 November 2020, you replied that some of your collaborators were "disaggregated from various public services", systematically listing these services, but not mentioning any collaborators from the private sector. You added that "no cabinet collaborator has previously been involved in a potential conflict of interest". Rather, the question was about the conflict between the former functions and the presence in your firm. The diamond sector is known both for fraud and money laundering cases (e.g. in the SwissLeaks scandal, 60% of Belgian cases concern diamond dealers) and for the intense lobbying it exercises on the political and judicial worlds. It is sufficient to see the commission of inquiry into the criminal transaction, which has given quite frightening conclusions on the matter. If there are two ministerial offices where one would hope not to find people from this diamond sector, it is therefore to Justice and Finance. Now, in Vivaldi, there are two: one to Justice and the other to Finance. Indeed, your Director Communication and Political Strategy has been responsible for three years (2010-2013) for compliance with the diamond company Rosy Blue, one of the most important in Antwerp. Rosy Blue's boss, Baron Dilip Mehta, had created, in 1986, two opaque foundations in Liechtenstein to house his wealth and that of his brothers, facts which led him to be prosecuted for tax evasion in 2015. Rosy Blue is also cited in Panama Papers and Paradise Papers. In other words, Rosy Blue's compliance is far from exemplary. But today, its former Head of Compliance is therefore Director of Communication and Political Strategy in the office of the Minister of Finance responsible for combating fraud. Of course, it's a matter of concern, Mr. Minister. My questions are as follows. Has your Communications and Policy Strategy Director informed you of her former position as a compliance manager in a diamond company involved in multiple tax fraud cases? Is this not problematic in terms of potential conflicts of interest? Do you know whether this lady maintains relations with persons related to her former employer or, in general, with the diamond sector? Why did you not mention this situation in your answer to the above-mentioned parliamentary question? Do you yourself have any contact with the diamond sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u127	Mr Van Hees, it goes without saying that I am aware of the past professional activities of the employee to which you refer in your question. This applies to all those who work in my firm today. You're referring to a position she held at the end of 2010 until she decided, herself, to leave the company eight years ago in mid-2013. It was then responsible for the preparation, implementation and monitoring of internal and external audits, corporate social responsibility, the preparation of the annual CSR report based on the GRI standard and the development and implementation of international standards, with a view to obtaining certification from the Responsible Jewellery Council, the United Nations Global Compact business principles and certifications SA8000 and ISO9001. It was therefore committed to issues such as improving working conditions, health and safety in the workplace, human rights and income-linked wages. In the course of her work, my co-worker never had a view of the financial structures or transactions of the company in question. Just as it has never been said that my collaborator plays any role in the judicial investigations mentioned by your party. In addition, she had no final responsibility for this function. The employee in question has had no professional connection with her former employer since she left her employer eight years ago. She never put me in touch with people in the sector, and so is my practice. No, there was no, there is no, and there will never be a conflict of interest. I am convinced that I have sufficiently explained why my answer to the written question was indeed complete and correct. Mr Van Hees, I would like to make a comment. You know that I am delighted to answer all your questions. In your questions, you may and must be critical of my work and even of my person. However, you and your party make here an intention process of one of my employees, based solely on a function title, which she also shares in all transparency on her LinkedIn profile. That information also draws you completely out of context. However, if you had done your job well, you could have looked up perfectly in an externally audited CSR report which included her job at the time. You question the integrity of a collaborator with whom I have been working for years on the basis of a legitimate job in a legitimate sector, which she performed eight years ago, I repeat: eight years ago, which she undoubtedly did with the same commitment and integrity as I am used to today. I'm sure of that. I therefore hope that in future you will pay more attention to the political work than to the processes of intention you make of my staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u128	Mr Minister, let us be clear: the objective is obviously not to point a person or to personally target someone. The fact is that we have actually done an analysis because we know that a recurring problem in this government, as in previous ones, is the links and potential conflicts of interest that exist between cabinet members and the business world, particularly the diamond sector – the level of which is known both of which is the level of fraud and the level of lobbying vis-à-vis the political world. When one finds that one of your collaborators has worked in a company heavily involved in tax frauds that are proven, excuse me to raise the question! That seems obvious to me. I think it is you who should have raised this point by answering my written question. The elements you gave us today are my written question that you should have given them. Today, I wouldn't have to ask you these questions. Quite simply, Minister, in terms of transparency and conflict of interest prevention, you must be proactive. You weren't. Today, you are obliged to return to this situation when you could very well have avoided it if you had acted proactively in answering my written question correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u129	The fact that the so-called major fiscal reform of the Minister of Finance was not included in the European Commission's structural reform calendar raises a number of questions. Is the so-called major fiscal reform still going to happen during this legislature or not? Before the end of the legislature, a global reform would be discussed, but without the commitment to land during this legislature. Can the Minister confirm that? Does the Minister of Finance want a tax reform only on paper, or does he want to implement it effectively by 2024? In other words, is this tax reform a task for the current government or for the next government? Let us at last clarify this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u130	As the government agreement indicates, the government will prepare this legislature for a reform aimed at modernising, simplifying and making the Belgian tax system more neutral and equitable. The reform should also contribute to the government's commitments and objectives as set out in the government agreement. I can confirm that I have effectively started work on fiscal reform. In May 2021 we had a very interesting exchange of thoughts here in committee to listen to your priorities and points of interest, so that I can also include them in the preparation. I wish to get to work very quickly with that input. Since no date of concrete implementation can be given at this stage, the European Commission has also been informed of this. On this basis, in consultation with the European Commission, it was decided not to include fiscal reform as a condition in the recovery plan. After all, we are entitled to the resources of the recovery fund on the basis of the milestone we indicate. This does not, of course, alter my absolute ambition to address the reform as effectively as possible during this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u131	Minister, I can only conclude from your woolly answer that there is still a great deal missing from this major fiscal reform. It is still unclear whether you want to land in this legislature or in the next legislature. I conclude that you have not yet negotiated this. You sell a lot about that in the media, but today I have to conclude from your non-answer that it is not really clear, let alone an agreement in the government. So we're looking forward to the sequel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u132	Madam President, a Belgian legal provision of 2017 introduced, among other things, a tax exemption in Belgium for pensions, annuities and other periodic benefits granted by foreign authorities or under a foreign social security system to victims of the Second World War or their dependants. This exemption applies in particular to German pensions awarded under a social security scheme to victims of war or their dependants. This applies in particular to persons who have obtained national recognition status in Belgium and who are included in certain lists. These lists include those incorporated by force into the Wehrmacht, which have been recognized as such by law, as well as those deportees recognized by law organizing the status of deportees for the compulsory work of the war of 40-45. This exemption scheme applies to income paid or allocated from 1 January 2016 and was the subject of a detailed comment in an administrative circular published in 2018 on the Fisconetplus website of the administration. In any event, only the victims of war 40-45 are affected by this exemption. People who have voluntarily engaged in the service of the Third Reich are not concerned here. It would therefore be appropriate to verify on a case-by-case basis whether the pension in question met the conditions for exemption. The information provided is insufficient to make a decision. It should be noted that the data on pensions paid under German social legislation are transmitted by Germany in bulk as part of the automatic exchange of information between States without it being possible to isolate and, consequently, to quantify those specifically allocated to victims of war 40-45 or their dependants. Sometimes this leads to confusion as to the exact nature of the benefits paid and the tax system to be applied to them. Apart from these pensions, Germany awards compensation for personal injury, for example as a result of hostilities or political persecution. These allowances are also exempt from tax in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u133	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. What I am withdrawing from it is that the 2017 law provided for a tax exemption for pensions granted, in particular to the victims of the Second World War or to their beneficiaries. Among these people, there are those who have been forcibly recruited into the Wehrmacht. You are telling me that, since the exemption scheme does not apply to persons who have worked with the regime knowingly, it would in fact imply that this person, whom I am referring to in my question, might have worked with the Wehrmacht. Except that I doubt it, because it would not have brought to the press what it considers to be fiscal injustice. Today, we find ourselves in a system where the employees of the Nazi regime receive pensions which are, precisely, exempt from tax. Today, a person who has been forcibly recruited has received a notice of rectification for the pensions received, with retroactive effect. I am rather concerned by the great contrast between the principle contained in the law and what is observed in practice. I hope that we will be able to obtain more precise information in relation to this particular case, but also in relation to the tax system in general around these annuities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u134	Minister, these are not tax optimizations by multinationals advised by tax law firms. This is the optimization we found a few years ago in Tax-on-web. Citizens have told me that in recent years there has been no such thing. These were modules that allowed the taxpayer to file its return to make a better division between spouses for certain mortgage deductions – those entered into before 2005 or after 2005 for the clean and single home deduction. Therefore, the deduction is distributed half-middlely between the spouses, even if another distribution would have allowed them to pay less taxes. Do you confirm the removal of these optimisation modules in Tax-on-web? If so, what is the cause of this deletion? What happens when FPS Finance officials complete the declaration for citizens? Do they apply this optimization?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u135	In the past, there was indeed a module on Tax-on-web to help taxpayers report such loans. With the regularization of real estate taxation, which follows the sixth reform of the State, however, the matter has become extremely complex. Given the very high number of variables that must now be taken into account, it is not possible to implement them in the module. That is why it was deleted. Even if there is no optimisation module in Tax-on-web, when administrative staff help to complete the reports and detect that optimisation is possible, they try to apply the most advantageous distribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u136	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm half satisfied and half worried. I am pleased to hear you say that employees apply the breakdown when they complete the taxpayers' statements. So I wonder. Indeed, if they can do so, why can't a computer program do it? I'm not really convinced by your explanation of complexity. At the same time, I have no other explanations and I do not think that there is a willingness to earn some tax revenue. I'm still puzzled. It existed. Apart from that, I wonder why the computer program that calculates the tax does not automatically apply the form of breakdown, the most beneficial distribution to taxpayers. The problem of having simulation modules would thus be avoided and a formula would be applied directly to enable citizens to pay the least taxes according to existing laws.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u137	Mr Minister, this is indeed about registration in the UBO register in accordance with the anti-money laundering law. Vzw's must indicate their final beneficiaries, and the law contains a nice list of the beneficiaries. Since the KB of September 2020 of your predecessor Minister De Croo there is also an obligation to charge additional documents in the register. Finally, the deadline for existing non-profit organisations has shifted from end-April 2021 to end-August 2021. My question now is: which documents should be charged correctly? In an earlier reply, you pointed out that the only-once principle will be used as much as possible and that an exercise is also in progress to make an automatic extraction of supporting documents already published in the Belgian Official Journal. That is a good thing. What is actually expected by the end of August with regard to administrative bodies and executive bodies? Is a mere reference to the Belgian Official Journal sufficient, should one download the document and upload it back to the UBO register, or is the mere fact that there has ever been a publication in the Belgian Official Journal sufficient? The same for the Executive Board and for the category of members for whom the non-profit organisation was established and to whom the purpose of the non-profit organisation relates, as stated in the Statutes. The automatic extraction from the Belgian Official Journal, is it already there or is it expected? In addition, will the deadline of 31 August 2021 be maintained or a further postponement granted?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u138	The answer to this question is no different for non-profit organisations than for other legal forms. The information to be entered in the UBO register should be supported by documents demonstrating that the information in the register is adequate, accurate and up-to-date. The KB or the administration shall not impose any specific form of document. For example, documents may be, depending on the specific case and to be determined by the reporting agent, a copy of the stock register, a shareholders' agreement, minutes of the general meeting, an extract from a foreign register, a commercial register or any other document. For example, in the case of non-profit organisations, we can accept the minutes of the most recent general meeting or the statutes as evidence. The legal representative shall ensure that the information contained in these documents or extracts is legible. There is indeed a link with the Belgian Official Journal and the UBO register. It will be ensured that the reporting agent responsible can confirm that all information in the UBO register is already reflected in the publications in the Belgian Official Journal. In the absence of certain data on natural persons in the publication, an additional document in the register itself will remain necessary. The administration of the thesauri makes it possible to provide the link with the Belgian Official Journal in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u139	I think that link is essential. It makes no sense to have to download government documents from official databases, and then upload them to another database. I believe I understand that this link will be there before 31 August, in order to avoid many volunteers having to download and upload a lot to make that information available.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u140	Mr Donné withdrew his question No 55019493C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u141	Mr. Secretary, from the investigation A new vulnerability. The lower income classes in Belgium showed that today's vulnerability of people in the low middle class is largely due to two factors. On the one hand, it is a question of switching from a household model to a two-earner model, and on the other hand of increasing wage divergence between lower and higher incomes. During the parliamentary debate on fiscal reform, several parties suggested that modernising our tax system should certainly mean better targeting single parents. The starting point of our current system, the two-earner model, is no longer in line with the reality of many Belgians. The financial uncertainty experienced by working single parents is a symptom of the over-focus on classic middle-class families. Since the fight against poverty and support for families are, according to the government agreement, the objectives of fiscal reform, I have some questions for you. Firstly, fiscal reform will be a key instrument in the fight against poverty. How do you understand the government's objective of alleviating family taxation? Will the focus of your policy be sufficient on single parents? Secondly, the transition to the two-earner model was socially motivated by the idea that individual financial independence would mean greater social gender equality. Now, however, it appears that the two-earner model is increasingly ensuring that one income no longer provides a guarantee against poverty. Do you believe that an adjustment to this situation is essential in the fight for gender equality and equality? Thirdly, according to the study, the downward pressure on the lowest incomes and the rising costs for housing, for example, mean that people are increasingly dependent on redistributing policies. At the same time, there is a risk that the alignment of this last part with the situation of single parents will lead to even greater complexity and rigid categorization in our tax system. How do you see this tension between, on the one hand, a more inclusive redistribution policy and, on the other hand, the pursuit of simple taxation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u142	Mr Vanbesien, I very much understand your questions. Indeed, I believe that the broad fiscal reform that we are preparing is an element that we should take into account in terms of the impact on single people in general and on single parents in particular. Moreover, it will be one of the difficult exercises to find the balance between simplicity in our tax system and redistributing measures that need to be developed specifically for this target group. It seems to me that it is a little early to discuss this; further discussion on this will be part of the debate on the broad fiscal reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u143	Thank you, Minister. The classic family was long regarded as the cornerstone of our society. Rightly so, but society is evolving and there are several other cornerstones that need to be taken into account. Tax reform will become one of the most radical achievements of this reign. I am therefore pleased that you say that we must ensure that we look very closely at everything from all sides of society, and that we will try to reconcile this inclusiveness with the simplicity of the system. We will work with you to find good solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u144	Madam President, Mr Matheï, allow me to take the floor. Even if you read your question completely, I will only be able to answer you that that question is not within my competence, but one of my colleague, the Minister for Social Affairs. So I suggest you ask him the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u145	Mr. Secretary, that will be all right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u146	Madam President, Minister, we already have a very comprehensive and strong legal framework in the fight against money laundering, both repressive and preventive. We have also held many hearings and discussions on this subject in this committee. One thing that is constantly being put forward is the need for better cooperation. Firstly, cooperation between the public and private sectors, with financial institutions and various organisations. Like abroad, for example the Netherlands and Great Britain, it is ideal if a kind of platform is developed for this purpose. Now we have heard that the platform would have been set up. At the same time, I would like to touch on a second aspect, which is that there must also be effective cooperation at European level between the various competent services, such as our CFI. Minister, can you clarify how the new public-private consultation platform against money laundering is being organised? How frequent is the consultation? What are the objectives? What is the state of European cooperation between the various European FIUs? When can we see this form of cooperation in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u147	Madam President, Mr Matheï, participants in the public-private consultation platform against money laundering, namely the Treasury, the CFI, the FSMA, the National Bank, Febelfin and Assuralia, have, on my initiative, concluded a cooperation protocol for an AML platform. The overall objective is to increase the efficiency of the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing by exchanging information in an efficient and secure manner that can be useful for the effective and appropriate performance of the tasks of participants. To this end, the AML Platform provides for a number of tasks to be developed under the chairmanship of the Treasury. The first meeting of the AML platform took place on 18 June and the platform will meet four times a year. The European Commission is currently working on a proposal for a new structure for European cooperation between the various European FIUs, called the future cooperation and support mechanism for FIUs of CSM. It is not known when exactly that proposal will be ready, but it is expected that it will be in one of the coming weeks. FIU Belgium is very active in the CSM working group and has also participated in the preparation and publication of a joint common paper on the future of the corporation and support mechanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u148	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Money laundering can only be tackled through very good cooperation. It's always pushed forward. We also see these things appearing on the ground with the initiative of public-private cooperation in our country. I have also heard that we are also working on strong cooperation at European level. These two together can only contribute to the fight against money laundering.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u149	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanden Burre's 55019525C was postponed at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u150	At the moment, in my administration, a task force is gathering information and identifying possible problems in tax matters that could lead to indirect discrimination on the grounds of gender. His recommendations will be given serious consideration. My administration is also working fully with the Institute for Gender Equality to strengthen the focus on gender mainstreaming in all aspects of policy. However, given that the forthcoming reforms are still in full swing, I cannot give you any precise guidance as to how policy will be implemented in future fiscal reforms. As far as data are concerned, my administration is currently examining the possibility of providing gender-specific statistics, which was not the case in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u151	I refer in part to my previous reply. Society is constantly changing. It is an important task for us to ensure that the way in which we want to organise this society is adapted to developments. That is why such initiatives and plans are very important and useful. We must all bear that in mind when we work on the major fiscal reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u152	Madam President, FPS Finance and ONSS have joined forces to deploy a single platform to meet their respective requirements and to use as much as possible the same tool at the federal level. It is not a concession, but a public procurement with price lists in an open procedure with European publication. Furthermore, in view of the financial stake related to the collection of debts of the FPS Finance and ONSS using digital tools, the evaluator's expertise in this area is crucial, especially since, in accordance with the public procurement, it must ensure that the electronic platform will be operational no later than four months after the date of conclusion of the contract. The contracting authority may, in agreement with the other contracting authority, terminate the contract at the end of each year. This is quite usual in the context of this type of public procurement in order to avoid any blockage of the economic operator during the execution of the contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u153	Minister, thank you. In fact, this question comes from a fear expressed by the profession, by reading the way the specifications are written. It is felt that, in the end, this specification could have been calibrated to favour or direct the result in the market towards a specific operator. That's the fear. So I'm going to look at your answer. We know that the deadline is very short, since the market will start on 24 July, if I am not mistaken. In any case, I would like to draw your attention to the way in which the specifications are configured, so that a whole profession can be eligible or, at least, be able to compete in good conditions without saying to itself in advance: "It is done in advance. I know that others will be chosen. So I have no desire to participate." This is not good for society or public authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic532x.u154	Thank you for your hard work: 54 questions, including topical debates. Hat! This was the last meeting with questions – even if we will meet again before July 15. I wish you a great evening and a good return home.
