ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u1	Mr. President, Minister, the United States has announced a departure date for Afghanistan. This departure is expected to take place before September 11, 2021. Following this decision, NATO member countries also announced that they would terminate this mission within the same time frame. A few weeks ago, American indecision and the situation on the ground prevented a clear response from being obtained at the NATO Defence Ministers' meeting. It had therefore been decided to postpone the planned withdrawal to the second quarter of 2021, until a later date unspecified. Minister, what political, diplomatic and practical developments led to this decision? What is the Belgian withdrawal schedule? What amount can be saved by the Belgian Defence following this early withdrawal? How will this amount be reallocated? Will the withdrawal have an impact on Belgium's other missions abroad in terms of personnel, equipment and budget? After 20 years of on-site attendance, what is the balance sheet that can be drawn from these successive missions? What are the military and political objectives that have been achieved and those that have not? What has been the impact on Belgian Defence of this mission? What is the total cost, the cost in human lives of Belgian soldiers but also targets? In your opinion, is this mission a success or a failure? Is this withdrawal a good thing or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u2	Madam Secretary, NATO switched very quickly following the announcement by US President Biden on the withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan. After a ministerial meeting of NATO, Belgium, like Germany's partner nation, also announced a withdrawal. Can you debrief that NATO meeting? By the way, I always ask for that, because that's interesting. According to the media, you've already met your German colleague. So you also switched very quickly. In what way are the troops withdrawn? Step-by-step or one-by-one? Is there any concrete view of the return of the material? After all these years a lot of material has been developed there. How will the Afghan security forces in the region where Belgium operates be prepared for this? It is important that what we have done there is preserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u3	Madam Minister, the 30 Member States of NATO have agreed to the US decision to withdraw all troops by 11 September 2021. The logistics operation should start on 1 May and be completed by September. In August, our partner Germany will also withdraw, which would also put an end to the development of Belgian Defence. Madam Minister, can you give me an overview of the talks in the alliance on the Belgian withdrawal, the time frame and the proper technical preparation of the operation? What is the budgetary impact of the reduction in the operation and the withdrawal of our troops? Is this covered by the additional EUR 9 million earmarked for the extension? NATO states that it will respond to any Taliban attack during the withdrawal with a strong response. In view of the past, such facts are not unthinkable. What chalk lines were drawn and is a second suspension of withdrawal possible? What possibilities does that open up for the Defence Department towards the end of 2021 and early 2022 to strengthen its commitment to other operations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u4	Minister, what will be the direct consequence for our troops in Afghanistan? How will this withdrawal be organised in collaboration with local partners? With what budget will this be done and within what time frame? A country is left in a complicated situation, with an uncertain destiny in terms of democratization processes. I think that we will still have to give serious consideration to the situation in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u5	Madam Minister, on 14 April, NATO Member States finally decided to begin the withdrawal on 1 May of the nearly 10,000 men and women involved in the Resolute Support mission. While Joe Biden announced the withdrawal of all American troops from Afghanistan by 11 September, you yourself have in the meantime announced the withdrawal of the Belgian contingent from some seventeen troops before the summer. In this context, in particular, you announced that our withdrawal from the region could lead to an intra-Afghan solution between Taliban and government. Minister, what is your record of NATO's presence in Afghanistan? Will the withdrawal of our troops to Afghanistan have an impact on our other missions and operations abroad, particularly in terms of human resources and deployed capabilities? Does the end of the Resolute Support mission put an end to the European Union's commitment to a peaceful solution to the Afghan conflict? Josep Borrell had threatened in November 2020 to cut EU support (€1.2 billion) for Afghanistan if the Taliban tried to restore an Islamic emirate in the country. What is your analysis of the situation that could succeed the withdrawal of NATO troops? What emerges from your recent meeting with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, in particular regarding the United States' consideration of the European Union as a partner in resolving the crisis in Afghanistan? Will you participate in the peace talks in Istanbul in mid-May? If so, what message will you carry?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u6	Madam Minister, for the introduction of my question, I would like to refer to the text of my question as tabled, as colleagues have already outlined the situation correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u7	Madam Secretary, what was the attitude of the respective NATO Member States to the withdrawal of American troops and how did the talks in the alliance go? What do you think are the military-strategic implications of the American decision to first withdraw the troops earlier, then announce that the troops would stay longer and then withdraw them by a new date, September 11th? Has the Taliban not strengthened its position since Biden's announcement of wanting to stay longer in Afghanistan, as during that time the attacks were forced to put pressure on the Afghan government and the Western coalition? Have the US and NATO not suffered an international loss of face by first announcing an extended presence and then deciding on full withdrawal? What do you think is the final balance of the 20-year war in Afghanistan? Have our military and political objectives been achieved or not? What lessons do you and Defense draw from that episode, with a view to assessing possible subsequent participation in foreign military missions? I think it is important to ask that question when the announcement is made.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u8	Madam Minister, the central theme of the questions is the announced withdrawal from Afghanistan, as if it were real and final. In addition, I raise my eyebrows. US President Biden indeed announced the end of the war in Afghanistan on 14 April, but the next day The New York Times announced that the Pentagon, the American intelligence services and the Western allies are planning to maintain a less visible but still powerful military presence in the region. Basically, it looks at how information can be collected to take action against terrorist targets without any infrastructure or personnel outside the Kabul Embassy. This gives a very different picture of the so-called end of the war in Afghanistan. The question arises as to what means the US intends to maintain its military influence. Is it about bombing, about the private force present, about both, or about something quite different, we don't know about? [[We have guessed about it, but in any case it is premature to accept a real end to the war.]] The number of mercenaries is already many times greater than the number of American soldiers, 16,000 compared to 2,500. What has been discussed in NATO with regard to the withdrawal of Western troops and the end of the war in Afghanistan? Can you confirm the statement from The New York Times? Will the presence of the private mercenaries be reduced in parallel with the dismantling of the Western national armies? What about the bombings that are still being carried out? Do you consider the withdrawal of the Western powers from Afghanistan to be real and final?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u9	Mr President, on Wednesday 14 April, during a special night meeting, NATO members decided to start with the withdrawal from Afghanistan from 1 May. The withdrawal should be completed within a few months. Allies now recognize that the military solution is no longer the right one to respond to the challenges facing Afghanistan. In the NATO declaration, allies and NATO partners will continue to assist Afghanistan in promoting security in the region and maintaining the achievements of the last 20 years in order to prevent Afghanistan from becoming a safe base for terrorist groups again. With President Biden taking office, the question of what the Americans would do in Afghanistan in the near future has indeed arisen. In this regard, the U.S. administration conducted intensive consultations with all friendly parties, which led to the conclusion that a full withdrawal of U.S. troops would be possible by 11 September 2021 at the latest. Belgium expresses its solidarity with the decision on the withdrawal of the international force from Afghanistan, which was taken by the alliance by consensus. With regard to the withdrawal of our own troops, it has been agreed with our German partner that the last Belgian soldiers deployed to Mazâr-e Charif will return for the summer. The positive or negative impact of an anticipated return on the mission budget is currently difficult to determine. Additional resources might be needed to ensure security in circumstances where the Taliban could increase the use of force. The impact of return and associated costs may also need to be reassessed. Where appropriate, if NATO calls on Belgium to make additional efforts for security in Afghanistan or to support other missions, Defence will assess any desired support on the basis of available personnel, equipment and budgets. It is therefore too early to judge the impact on other Defence operations in 2021 or early 2022. It is equally premature to seek a definitive assessment of the mission. However, the continued presence of Defence in Afghanistan demonstrated Belgium's solidarity in the fight against international terrorism and in support of the Afghan people. Of course, we deplore the numerous military and civilian losses suffered during these 20 years of conflict. For several years now, the Resolute Support Mission has been training and supporting Afghan security forces in preparation for an effective withdrawal of NATO, so that they can carry out the security orders themselves. The transfer of all security tasks to the Afghan security services is one of the responsibilities of the Resolute Support Mission's command. For the Mazar-i-Sharif region, that is up to our German partners, who will clarify their plan in due course. I would like to stress that this long presence in Afghanistan has led to progress in some areas, which must be ensured. Thus, the country is no longer the den of international terrorism, and the social, economic and political situation in Afghanistan has improved in the meantime. The rights of women, minorities and children had progressed; the media enjoyed greater freedom of expression. Much effort has been made to improve the economic and social conditions of Afghans. None of this would have been possible without the commitment of Belgium and our allies and partners. Finally, of course, my point is not to comment on American foreign policy, but I can tell you that the United States shares our desire for better cooperation between the European Union and NATO, as mentioned by Secretary of State Antony Blinken in his speech on the occasion of his visit to Brussels for the NATO/Foreign Affairs Ministerial. The United States stresses that the two organizations are a crucial force multiplier in favour of a more open and stable international order, although of course challenges remain. Finally, the allies stressed the importance of strengthening the Doha peace negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u10	Thank you for that answer, Minister. Twenty years is not nothing. When a country lives on such a long occupation, it leaves deep traces. To get an idea of this, in 2018, the median age of the Afghan population was 19 years. This means that more than one Afghan in two has always had a coalition military presence. In general, the Afghan people have been subjected to terrible external and internal suffering for decades. As we already knew when we arrived, Afghanistan is a country of extreme complexity. I found the exchanges in the September 2001 House and Senate Joint Committees. My esteemed predecessor Josy Dubie, who was then a senator and who knew the region well, said: "Be careful! Afghanistan is a deadly trap!" At last week's hearings on Mrs Jadin's motion for a resolution, I think it was Mr Biscop who told us that we should have left the country fifteen years ago. While some progress has been made in 20 years, I am sure, today there seems to be a risk that the situation will return to its starting point with the Taliban taking over the country. No one hopes so, but it's a real possibility. Twenty years later, it is now time for us to make a thorough and comprehensive assessment. That is why I wrote to the President so that we could organise our committee, this substantive work, on the basis of hearings, for example. The type of work still needs to be defined. It would allow us, I hope, to produce an evaluation report and recommendations. This should also highlight the importance of systematically having a parliamentary debate a priori on the basis of clear and transparent military objectives, and not only a posteriori, as is unfortunately the case today. I believe that we will again talk about Afghanistan in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u11	Mr Defossé, it is certainly true. I have received your question on that. I'll put them on the next order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u12	Mr President, I would just like to make it clear to Mr Defossé that before our army's engagement in Afghanistan, a preliminary debate had taken place in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u13	Mr President, that seems to me to be a useful addition from Mr Flahaut. Madam Secretary, you have quickly switched, I remember from your answer. That's important when it comes to defense. You did that and you saw your German colleague very quickly. I have referred several times to Germany as a good partner country and I think it was important that you organised that meeting so soon after President Biden's announcement. We are, of course, following international politics and international defence conditions. I am also afraid that Afghanistan will not disappear from our committee's agenda. I look forward to the debates on this and also to the follow-up of the withdrawal mission in our committee and in the committee that follows operations behind closed doors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u14	Should I stay or should I go? That has been the central question in relation to Afghanistan for years. The decision is controversial anyway. There was an agreement that was not fully respected. The same applies to the Taliban. In this sense, an extension of the military presence can be perfectly explained. Afshin Elian concludes in NRC Handelsblad that the only resultant withdrawal of the Western military forces from Afghanistan will be that the Taliban will again be in charge in Afghanistan, which means that in a few years' time we will see a ban on music and on education for girls and women and the application of all possible Sharia laws, including stoning of women's forced peasantry. That will be a huge step backwards in the development of that country, of that part of Asia, in short, of the world. I'm afraid he's right. The Taliban are still strong and supported internationally. They can still rely on heroin and opium production. That money source is still intact. More coke is being used, but heroin remains a highly sought-after product at international level, with high prices being paid. I fear that the warlords of the Taliban will overthrow the regime in Kabul within this and a number of years. Or perhaps the regime will just retain Kabul, but lose everything else. That is a very interesting debate. I'm glad there'll be hearings. I'm definitely ready. Finally, I have one last thought. You're referring to Antony Blinken. I also understand that President Biden is coming here and that the Americans want to put a very pro-European agenda on the table. NATO has often argued that there should be sufficient coherence and consultation when important agreements are made and that they should not be made unilaterally. Turkey is particularly referred to in the light of events in Northern Syria. That's seen as a bad example. President Macron said, as a result of what happened then, "NATO is brain dead." I can only say that the Americans have made up their minds about this and that NATO has been followed. I might suggest to you that with our American allies, whom I very much like and whose people from the American Embassy, who read all the reports, undoubtedly listen to them, you underline the importance of being consistent. The decision to withdraw is contrary to the message that everything in NATO must be done more in consultation, because it is a unilateral American decision. We've only been followed. You may have switched quickly. In the end, however, we simply had to follow what the Americans have decided. If that becomes the policy of Joe Biden and Blinken on defence and international cooperation, in which they decide and we are allowed to follow, then there is a problem and they contradict themselves. That is an interesting debate in itself. I've already gone over my speaking time. However, we will certainly be able to conduct the debate further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u15	Minister, history will tell us whether this decision to withdraw has been sound or not. We have not succeeded – this is also the observation – in bringing about the democratic processes and autonomy necessary to advance the fundamental rights that we are defending in a common way, including within the framework of this NATO mission in Afghanistan. It must therefore be noted that this is a failure, since we are leaving Afghanistan in the hands of the Taliban. I have tabled a resolution in the Committee on External Relations because I am very concerned about the plight of women and children who have a small hope of emancipation, a small gain of freedom in recent years and who are already losing it in many jurisdictions, certainly also at the media level, which is not going to improve. We'll talk about it again. I congratulate you for reacting quickly with your German counterpart with regard to the various phasages to be set up for the withdrawal of our troops. That was absolutely wise. I share the view and the observation that is made about our real strength in NATO. In the end, we are reduced, like other European countries, to being followers of the decisions taken unilaterally by the United States. Personally, this raises questions, especially since discussions are still under way in this committee but also in the Committee on External Relations, in particular concerning resolutions aimed at redefining our transatlantic relations as best as possible and at redefining the European Defence which we want to put in place in a sustainable and effective manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u16	Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer and for the clarity of the answer, but also for the position you took, as soon as you took office, in dealing with these issues, by working to be consistent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u17	Madam Minister, for our group, the war in Afghanistan in the context of the American war on terror can clearly be called a failure. That is also what American generals say, who admit that the Afghanistan strategy, mainly determined by President Obama, has failed. The Belgian troops and our coalition partners have been in that country for 20 years and the situation on the ground has only deteriorated because of the American strategy that we have followed so far. After all these years of war in Afghanistan, there is a sad balance: more than 2,000 soldiers have died, 20,000 have been injured, cost rises to over 3 billion dollars and 90% of the country is outside the control of the regular Afghan government. Despite all our efforts, the Taliban are in charge of Afghanistan, which we must simply dare to establish at the moment. The Trump administration's decision to withdraw the force from that waspen nest was therefore not unjustified. The situation on the ground was so strong in favour of the Taliban that it was no longer worth killing, wounded or dollars. The agreement with the Taliban to withdraw the military by May is confirmed in the new decision. I believe that it is a good decision, which does not mean that we should continue to follow the story very carefully. If I have understood you correctly, any aid application from one of our partners for further monitoring will always be evaluated. It's then looking forward to the choices we make. However, I would argue in favour of the correct inclusion of the concept of exit strategy in these future choices. We certainly did not do that in the Afghanistan story, which actually means years of commitment. I would argue that an exit strategy should always include d'office in our future commitments, as we have done for Iraq and Syria. This is highly commendable, as well as the evaluation that needs to be made. I am certainly in favour of an in-depth evaluation of our commitment over the last 20 years, through hearings or a debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u18	Madam Minister, it is a pity that you did not really answer the questions we raised on the subject and did not respond to our concerns. It seems absurd that we should get our information from The New York Times in order to find out anything about what is actually going to happen. There's still uncertainty. You may withdraw troops, but if there is still a private force in Afghanistan that can be used as military power, it is really very unclear what is going to happen there and what will be monitored there. I assume there will be hearings on the matter. We shall continue to deepen our criticism on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u19	Mr Colebunders, it is good to hear that you are getting your information from the Americans.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u20	Madam Secretary, on Friday 23 April a large fire broke out on the military domain and nature reserve Groot Schietveld in Brecht. The smoke then immediately spread over almost all of Antwerp and the provincial phase of the contingency plan was proclaimed. The fire would have started after a military shooting exercise. In the meantime, we have been able to gather more information on this through various media channels, but I would ask you to give some explanation at this public meeting about the cause or cause and the consequences of the fire. Is this the first such incident in a military shooting exercise or have such fires occurred in the past? What is more important is how Defence can learn from this so that it does not happen again or so that there can be an adequate response, which has not always been done here, but of course by Defence, but I would have liked to have heard about cooperation with other services. Can you give an overview of the financial and/or other impact that the incident has caused for the Defense Department? How did the DOD contribute to the aid and communication during and after the incident? Bearing in mind the number of questions, I suspect that there will also be an answer to the question whether or not the procedure was followed. I would also like to hear about the role of the Agency for Nature and Forest, which is not insignificant here either, and about the foreign aid provided out of necessity, if I may call it that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u21	Madam Secretary, on Friday 23 April a large fire broke out on the nature reserve and military domain Groot Schietveld in Brecht, which destroyed more than 500 hectares. The provincial contingency plan was announced as soon as it became clear that the fire was threatening residential neighborhoods in the neighborhood. The reason for the fire was a shooting exercise by the Defense Department, which is why I'd like to ask the following questions. Can you explain the cause of the fire and the further communication and actions of the Defense Department after the fire started? What was the assessment of fire risk by the managers of the domain before the exercise started? Were appointments made in advance with the local fire department? What resources were available in the military domain to fight the fire and what arrangements have been made with the local fire brigades to enable rapid and timely intervention? The damage to the domain is considerable. What are the assessments of Defense and the Flemish Agency for Nature and Forest about the damage to nature? What is the damage that Defense itself has suffered to its domain, infrastructure, vehicles and personnel? What is the potential financial repercussion for Defense regarding compensation for extinguishing, damage to third parties or the restoration of the nature reserve?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u22	Last Friday's fire impressed the region. I'm from Kalmthout myself. The fires on the Kalmthoutse heath are burned on our retina. This time it is a fire in the Groot Schietveld in Brecht, with a huge impact on nature but also on the people who have been evacuated. It's made a big impression on the neighbors. Shooting exercises in today's dry weather raise a lot of questions. Those who live in the region all know that the heath is very dry at this time of year. The pipe straw is widely present and is very dry and flammable. It raises questions about why shooting exercises were organised at this time of year. Madam Secretary, how many heath fires have taken place in recent years as a result of military shooting exercises? This wasn't the first time. I remember fires, also in North Limburg, as a result of military exercises. How was it decided, with the inflammable past in mind, whether or not a heathland is too dry to allow shooting exercises? What policy is generally used to avoid shooting exercises when the heath area in which practice is practised is too dry? I would like to thank you for being here. You've come to the scene yourself. That was a positive signal. The signal from the military leadership itself that struck a mea culpa and their commitment to the recovery are positive signals that we have to take with us, but that does not mean that we have to look critically at shooting exercises in current weather conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u23	Mr President, Minister, this is a disaster, that is clear. Many colleagues are asking questions about the savings and their consequences. I would like to put two other elements on the table. Firstly, there is cooperation with the fire department. Defence must ask itself whether it wants to do first-line fire fighting itself or not. That case has already been resolved de facto. In the province of Limburg there are many military domains. In Leopoldsburg and Helchteren there is no capacity for fire fighting today. In Kleine Brogel, that capacity is there, because of the planes. Good cooperation with the fire brigades is therefore needed. The Limburg corps are well equipped. The Limburg fire department went out there at night with 12 cars. That is not by chance, in Limburg there are a lot of heathlands. However, I hear in fire brigades that this cooperation is not optimal, that these agreements are not optimal today. It is therefore absolutely necessary to have a clear fire-fighting plan per domain, a clear protocol, clear agreements who, what, when and how. I don't feel like this is here today. That is a first appeal I would like to make to you. Then I come to a second element. Mr Pillen tweeted that this is not really a debate on nature management. I disagree. Nature is getting drier and drier. The ranger in that area says in the newspaper that we've had some dry summers. Ladies and gentlemen, that is climate change, that is what we are talking about. Nature is getting drier and drier. Let us look at the figures. In the last five years, there have been eight fires in military domains following shooting exercises, including three in Brecht. I don't think that's a coincidence. There is more grassing there, as the colleague from Kalmthout says, the area is particularly dry. That's what the ranger says. Because of the forest management in our country, there is an increasing burden of fire in the forests. That's one of the few cases in which I agree with President Trump. He also mentioned that there is a lot in those woods. This is a choice of forest management, but it does lead to more fire pollution. The reaction of the Defense Department was the following. The competent colonel, Colonel Mestdagh, has confirmed that only exercises have taken place for which no additional fire-fighting equipment was required under the applicable directives. Perhaps it is time to talk about the directives in force. Army command says weather code yellow doesn't require such a fire truck to be ready. That may be the agreements of the past, but I think it is absolutely necessary to update those fire-fighting plans. Nature and our environment are changing. There's a real need for the DOD to adapt, too. I'm afraid there's no other way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u24	Minister, on April 23, a major fire broke out during a shooting exercise at the Brecht military estate. The Public Prosecutor's Office has opened an investigation to establish the circumstances of the case. I would be very interested to know the conclusions of the prosecution and the responsibilities, including that of your predecessor, in this matter, when the prosecution says why we have arrived at this. Indeed, the firefighter's vehicle on the site was not operational. There were no firefighting personnel on site. It would appear that the Brecht staff who received this training retired and were not replaced. However, the Brecht camp falls into level 2 in the analysis of the risk of fire in the military fields. The on-site personnel should have received such training and been able to intervene, with a firefighter's vehicle. However, as explained by the Union libre de la fonction publique (SLFP) Défense, today we find ourselves with an extremely small quota of trained military personnel, who in addition have to carry out this job in cumulation. This makes the organization particularly difficult if they are assigned to other missions, on leave or absent for a variety of reasons. This truly deplorable situation stems from the outsourcing plan that Minister Vandeput created as a dogma during the previous legislature and from the non-renewal of these essential functions. Today the whole structure is in jeopardy. While in 2015 the Defence had 30,512 staff, in 2021 it had only 24,862 staff, not to mention all the budget cuts. That is a result of this policy! I hear colleagues complaining and questioning you, while they are the accomplices or even the instigators of this policy! Yes, it upsets me and I find it totally inappropriate! Madam Minister, could the Brecht fire have been avoided? Does this event not illustrate the fact that there is today a major imbalance between the support functions and the increase in the use of shooting stands? Do you intend to review the training of members in fire risk management? More broadly, can we hope that your policy of recruiting 10,000 women and men will enable Defence in the future to carry out its own missions and compensate for retirements?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u25	Mr President, Minister, the budget and procedures have already been discussed here. I will not repeat the whole story of the fire, but I share the concern about how we will continue to deal with it in Limburg. If we want a proper procedure, we must also have good equipment and well-educated people. It is not possible to point out the errors afterwards, when no budget was allocated to prevent such a thing from happening. The world warms up and there are often very dry periods. This could have been perfectly calculated. One has to ask oneself whether shooting exercises are necessary during this period. As for the budgets, these shooting exercises found without the presence of a fire truck. After all, it was in repair. If we have to start a war like this, we will lose very quickly. Besides, no one could have operated the vehicle, because the firefighters had been retired for five years. How could that be? Nevertheless, the defence staff says that the procedure was followed closely and that between the start of the fire and the call of the fire brigade only 10 minutes passed. If this can happen while the procedure is being followed, the procedure is clearly inadequate. On top of that we couldn't even put out our own fire, so fire helicopters from the Netherlands had to come to the rescue. Our fire bags are not compatible with the helicopters, which are also too expensive to fly. Due to the years of savings, Defense is not sufficiently prepared and equipped to carry out its defensive tasks. Apparently there are not enough resources for necessary investments in fire prevention and training of personnel, but for offensive equipment, such as the purchase of 34 expensive, unreliable and unnecessary F-35s. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Do you know anything about the ongoing investigation? What exactly was the cause of the fire? What is the current procedure for the outbreak of fire in target practice? Are there conditions for organising shooting exercises, especially in dry weather conditions? Will the procedures be adapted and will you provide resources so that the improved procedures can be complied with and implemented? Finally, the previous government invested EUR 9.4 billion in an attack capacity. Destabilizing interventions are carried out that make people flee, after which extremist organisations can recruit thanks to the social grievances that ensue. You have already indicated several times that you want to reinvest in the damaged parts of Defense, such as the workforce and essential material. In addition, you have also indicated that you want to renew the aid to the nation as an operational priority. Can you reconfirm those intentions here? Do you believe that these objectives are compatible with large investments in offensive material and its use abroad?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u26	I can skip my introduction as the facts are known. Mr Verduyckt, I would like to respond briefly. After all, you were talking about me and my tweets. I sent those tweets because it looked like some social media had burned down the entire Kalmthout Heide, or the Zwin or the Hoge Kempen National Park. That is not the case, and someone should say that clearly. Hence my tweets, from which you have selectively quoted. Madam Secretary, could you give me more information on the circumstances? Many colleagues have already asked that. What investigations are currently under way? I understand that there have been interrogations, and there is probably also an internal investigation. Can you give me an overview? More generally, the soldiers involved, on the ground and in the chain of command, were also quickly condemned this time. That is always the case in the event of incidents. A lot of people already condemn the Defense Department in advance. Could you please give me the exact fire procedures? I have the impression that many people are saying about incidents without knowing the underlying procedures to be applied in shooting and artillery exercises. Specifically: how many firefighters are there on site and with what equipment? In our country, there are some of these types of shooting grounds. How many staff members are on the organic table, specifically for the management of the Groot Schietveld? Which orders do they carry out exactly? How many employees are actually active compared to what is on the organic table? Finally, a final question is about what we have been able to read on Twitter several times. I have the impression that the Dutch have enjoyed themselves well, not only with the extinguishing work, but also with stories about their intervention in our military domain. The Netherlands has come to extinguish with 2 CH-47 Chinook devices. A federal police chopper was also deployed. Why weren't Belgian military choppers deployed? Why was the project of the possibility to hang a bambi bucket under the NH90 TTH removed in 2017? As I understand it, this would have to do with frictions between the services of the then Minister of the Interior and those of the then Minister of Defence. Is that true? Can you give me more information about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u27	In what way will you consider the protection of nature and the environment as a priority issue for the defence industry? Is the breeding season taken into account in the planning of military exercises and activities? For the military domains for which (nature) management plans have been drawn up, more account will be taken of "the possible'management fires' which may occur occasionally due to the frequent shooting exercises. As has just been said, these are detrimental to fauna if they find themselves in the summer half-year place."The danger of nature's vulnerabilities? In the management plan of the Groot Schietveld (2010) it says: "Besides shooting exercises on a large disastrous heath fire was known. Why was military planning not taking into account the greater danger in the period April August?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in connection with last Friday's fire, I would first of all like to say that the investigation into the exact cause is still ongoing. An investigating judge has been appointed and the Land Accident Investigation Service will also do its job within the Defense Department. Defence will, of course, cooperate fully in this investigation. In order not to compromise this, no statements about cause or guilt can and should be made at present. It is therefore premature to draw any conclusions as to the exact cause. The fire was spotted just after 09.00 in the morning during a shooting exercise of the 11th Battalion Genie on the Great Shooting Field. Around 09.15 a.m., the fire department was notified, which was on the scene around 09.30 a.m. The exact response times will undoubtedly be part of the ongoing investigation. A few moments later, the municipal phase of the contingency plan was proclaimed, followed by the provincial phase. The Landcomponent immediately provided two bulldozers from the 11th Battalion Genie and one section staff from the Battalion Artillery to the provincial command. Both staff and equipment were deployed to support the fire department, and continued to provide support for the rest of the weekend after their work. At the beginning of the fire, external communication was concentrated at the provincial crisis centre in accordance with the current activation procedure. As a first step, therefore, it was logically mainly the firefighters who communicated. Our Spokesman's Cell and the Defence Press Service were kept informed by the provincial commander's services and were thus able to pass on the information available through the questions of the journalists of Het Laatste Nieuws, VTM, VRT... throughout the day. DG StratCom published a first article on Belgian Defense News on 23 April at 9:30 p.m. at the end of the provincial phase. On April 24, at the end of the afternoon, I visited the premises with the Land Component Commander and the DACOS Operations and Training. This visit was followed by a press briefing. On 25 April, the Vice-CHOD moved to De Zevende Dag and the Spokesman's Cell continued to respond to the various requests of journalists. In the past, there have been a number of heath fires in our military domains. However, this is the first incident of this magnitude. In all training areas, different fire stages are worked by means of a colour code. These are determined by the camp itself on the basis of information from the Meteo Wing and the EFIS system used by the fire department to determine the soil condition. On the basis of this information, the fire stage in force shall be determined and imposed. This color code is then tied to a number of permitted or prohibited actions. A number of additional security measures are also being imposed. These colour codes therefore require a gradual reduction of the possible shooting exercises taking into account the fire hazard. Only at fire stage red is all outdoor shooting exercises prohibited. There are therefore no activities allowed on the shooting field. On Tuesday 20 April it was decided to announce the burning stage yellow for both the large and the small shooting field. The resources available in the camp and the arrangements with the local fire brigades are included in the same regulations. For example, fire escape routes and co-ordination points are clearly defined and it is agreed in advance which organism will do what to control a possible fire. Every military domain has a plan like this. For Brasschaat this was the last time put to an end in 2015. The local fire brigades are adjacent to the Brasschaat firing field and are most suitable, trained and equipped to fight such fires. In the context of defence support for the nation, there are also partnerships for the use of more specialised defence fire-fighting equipment in the event of heavy fires on civilian territory, such as around military airports. The fire truck as one of the resources of the Defense Department is only used to strengthen the fire department. The car is considered an additional tool with 4,000 litres of water. According to the regulations, the presence of this fire truck was not mandatory during the exercise. The next few days or weeks will determine exactly the extent of the material damage and damage to nature, as well as how we can deal with them in the most efficient way. To this end, the Defence Agency will draw on the expertise of the Agency for Nature and Forests. The nature restoration works that follow from this will continue to be handled, like all other nature management works, in accordance with the cooperation agreement on nature management between Defence and the ANB. Persons or organisations who consider that they have suffered damage may take the necessary steps to be heard through existing legal proceedings. The results of the current study should also be awaited, after which a correct estimate of costs can also be made. On the basis of the final results and the recommendations of the ongoing investigations, Defence will evaluate and, where appropriate, adapt existing procedures and staff and equipment to be deployed, for example as a logical consequence of the increasing drought and wind caused by global warming. Defense doesn't have fire-fighting capability with fire-fighting bags under their helicopters. The so-called Bambi Bucket is currently not certified for use with our helicopters. In cooperation with and at the request of the FPS Home Affairs, however, a study was carried out in the past on the possibilities to develop this capacity on the Belgian TTH variant of the NH90. However, given the security problems and the costs associated with that process, as well as the operational consideration that there is no need for that kind of equipment within the Defence Department, the Home Office indicated in 2018 its intention to terminate that development project. In the meantime, the COMOPSAIR has also confirmed its intention not to pursue this project. The Belgian position was then confirmed to industry and that development was stopped. The Dutch air support was implemented under the Memorandum of Understanding on the implementation of fire bucket operations, which was concluded on 4 March 2015 between the Minister of Security and Home Affairs of Belgium, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Minister of Security and Justice of the Netherlands. The request for support may be made by the Provincial Crisis Centre, after consultation between the Civil Protection and Defence Department, after promulgation of the provincial phase or with the agreement of the Governor. Belgium shall bear the costs for the deployment of a fire bucket and to this end the Netherlands shall publish annually in the fourth quarter of a calendar year to Belgium the costs of deployment and consignment. The Minister for the Interior is responsible for handling the payment of the costs. Finally, I would like to remind everyone that military domains are among the most valuable areas in relation to special fauna and flora. The reconciliation of protection and its proper management with the obvious use of our firing positions for the preparation and the necessary training and training of our soldiers has always been our priority. Defence therefore regrets that the fire has been set in motion, but the investigation will show what lessons we can draw from it. Anyone involved in the fire, I wish to thank you again. I remain relieved that in the end there have been no casualties and that the fire has confined itself to the military domain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u29	Madam Minister, thank you for your detailed explanation of what can be seen as a serious incident with many consequences. The investigation is ongoing. That goes without saying. We will certainly come back to this later on in terms of responsibility and also in terms of costs, which are not insignificant. What is even more important is indeed the lessons that can be learned from this case. I believe that one of those lessons should be that good cooperation between the different policy areas really deserves to be done. Especially with the Interior and the fire department, but also with the Netherlands, on fire fighting. We have seen that the Dutch aid provided has been limited. Aid came from Limburg when it came to fire fighting, but closer, just across the border, could have been offered a little more help. I don't understand why that wouldn't happen sooner. As already mentioned, there must also be cooperation with Nature and Forest. I do not find that element in the press, apart from the normal questions in this connection. In the fire-prone area of this firing field there are actually insufficient fire-breeders that divide the area. Experience has shown that this does not allow the fire to expand as quickly as it is now. I believe that attention should be paid to this. It may be a detail, but with regard to the spread of a fire, it is not insignificant. The Nature and Forest Agency is therefore not free to argue in this respect either. One thing is clear, Madam Minister, this unfortunate incident has revealed a number of important points of concern. Reality has shown that Defense is not always sufficiently prepared for a possible fire, although such a fire is not so rare. The fire truck has already been quoted. Also the water bags, which are not compatible with our helicopters. That problem is being solved, you said. It may seem laughable, yet another Belgian joke, but for the citizens evacuated because of this fire it was of course bitterly serious. This is yet another symptom of years of underinvestment and stepmotherly treatment of Defense. I hope this will be remedied in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u30	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation, even though we are not much with it now. What happened should never have happened. Whatever is being done now, and no matter how high the costs may be for the efforts to recover, it is only trying to restore the area in part. It was a confluence of many mistakes that caused the destruction of a valuable piece of nature, a disgrace to the Defense Department. It is clear that there is still a lot of work to be done. I should also like to comment on what Mr Lacroix has just said. It's easy to blame Steven Vandeput. An accident for which this minister is responsible is putting her predecessor in the hands of a very small political game. We do not abuse such cases, the PS apparently does.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u31	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed reply. Of course, you haven't been able to determine the cause yet. I would like to respond to Mr Pillen, who indicated that this is not a large nature reserve. I have to nuance that because the Groot Schietveld certainly has the status of nature domain. In addition, it is currently being examined whether it could become a national park together with the Klein Schietveld and the Kalmthoutse Heide. So I certainly do not want to minimize its value. This natural value is also due to the fact that this is a military practice area, something which must of course also be taken into account. A lot of attention was paid to the capacity for fire fighting in the Defense Department. The fight against fire is one thing, but, of course, prevention is even more important. The investigation of the cause will be important for this, but it is also necessary to consider whether it is appropriate to organise shooting exercises where there is a fire hazard and code yellow is issued for such areas. Our military must of course be able to practice, but in certain circumstances, in the event of drought in heathlands, it seems important to me to consider whether or not that is possible. Following the current evaluation, a tightening is likely to be the issue. Finally, I would like to thank all firefighters and aid workers for their many hours of important work, as well as the Dutch for their help. In the event of such incidents, there is always a wave of indignation, which may not be an appropriate term in this case, but I think it is important that we look at what lessons we can draw from this in order to prevent such incidents in the future. I would dare to suggest, although I am not a permanent member of the committee, that once the final reports are ready, we should re-organise a topic debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u32	The latter is a good suggestion. Please also inform them in writing so that we can arrange them for a subsequent arrangement of the work. I would also like to take on board the words of thanks for the various fire brigades and for the efforts made by the Defence Department on behalf of the whole committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u33	Madam Secretary, I am very concerned about this subject. It is not the Zwin or the National Park Hoge Kempen that burned down, but I know the military domains very well and especially the Limburgs: they are beautiful areas that certainly deserve our protection. I understand, Madam Secretary, that you have not yet been able to say much about the cause, which would be inappropriate in your position, and indeed there is still a need for research. However, I would like to refer to fire captain Van Riel, who indicates that the combination of a cork dry nature with shooting exercises with a certain probability is the cause. We'll see. Furthermore, Mrs Safai, as far as political responsibility is concerned, you are going down a very short road. The actions of former Minister Vandeput have indeed had consequences in this dossier. For me, however, the question of how we can prevent this in the future is much more important. With nine fires in five years, with now a fire that has really gotten out of hand, one cannot say that there have been no signals. We ask every company and festival organizer in this country to make sound safety plans. I hear you say the safety plan here was over five years old. The least that should happen is that we provide a proper update, because in those five years people have retired and things have changed. So five years is extremely long. We need to sit around the table for such an update of the security plans with everyone: the fire department, the Nature and Forest Agency, and possibly also climatologists, so that everyone can look over them. Mr Van den Bergh says it is strange to think that there can still be shot at code yellow; well, there can still be shot at code orange. And in the case of code orange, we tell the population that it is a matter of dry weather and that there is a fire hazard. And yet we allow shootings to take place. I understand that Defense is afraid of this discussion and will be able to start shooting less, but I am particularly afraid that we will not have any more shooting areas left.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u34	Mr President, we are indeed going to wait very impatiently for the investigation under way and the conclusions of the investigating judge. I have noted that on the basis of the available and trained personnel, the Defence has acted and reacted as it could, with the help of the firefighters and with the help of the Netherlands. We can only thank them. But the political record is clear. This is not just an observation made by the Socialist Party. It is also the finding of the liberal union of the public service, the defence sector, that says: "Today we find ourselves with an extremely small quota of trained soldiers who, in addition, must carry out this job in cumulation." It's not Christophe Lacroix, it's not the PS who says that. It's the Liberal union. And another observation, 2015, 30,000 staff members (I round off); in 2021, 24,000. And in those 6,000 differences, there were firefighters, there were people who were trained, who retired, who were not replaced. Fortunately, we have a government that has made military personnel its top priority and a minister who is putting double bites to fill the gaps of his predecessors, and in particular of Minister Vandeput in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u35	Madam Minister, I note that the fire trucks are not part of the procedure for these specific shooting exercises. In any case, it is a good thing that you want to adapt the procedure to the current problems of drying up nature and global warming. I have also heard that the development of our own extinguishing capacity was stopped in 2017. I suppose this development will be restarted. We will certainly continue to follow up on this. Investing in Defense? If there is something that makes clear what saving sometimes leads to, if not always, then last year we saw it with the mask saga and the problems we had with it. When I hear a colleague from N-VA say that this cannot be put in Mr Vandeput's shoes, I do ask myself questions. In the past, heavy investment was made in the military's offensive capacity, but saved on essential resources that could prevent things such as the Brecht fire. It is good that the PS criticises the previous savings, but you did not respond to the conflict between defensive and offensive defence. You, too, continue the planned investments of former Minister Vandeput, the F-35s. Do you think that these two capacities can be combined within the current budgetary framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u36	Mr President, I would also like to say a few words in my reply, thank you to all those who have been working there for days. Thanks also to the neighbours, whose empathy and reactions in interviews on TV were exemplary. These people, moreover, were all reasonably satisfied with the reception by the Defense Department and the various disaster disciplines. Defence's communication has also helped, and I welcome that: the colonel who immediately appeared on television, the vice-chod who sat in the matter, the minister who immediately visited, that is only positive. Colleagues, I'm a very big nature lover. Defense has been practicing in this area for years. As the Minister has rightly said, it gives nature, among other things, the freedom to develop. A possible alternative to this type of fire is the excavation of the ground, but I do not think that anyone in the committee is in favour of it. After all, it destroys nature, even though there may be fewer fires. I don't think anyone on the committee is defending this kind of idea. Military exercises remain necessary and accidents can occur. That's something we have to face. When I hear some, it seems that only in December and January can we do shooting exercises when the ground is 10 cm frozen. I think we should be careful with that. Ladies and gentlemen, let us wait and see if we can draw lessons, for example on the use of the fire truck, the resources provided, the relationship with the climate and the drought, and, Mr Verduyckt, also the multidisciplinary action. Madam Secretary, you also know my plea for helicopters. Helicopters are very useful and can be used for a lot of things. We really need to see if we can use them for fire fighting as well. Today it was the Great Shooting Field, tomorrow it may burn on the Kalmthoutse Heide or in the Zwin. Then we will also look at the defense to intervene. So we really need to invest in that capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u37	Mr Defossé, where do you stand with the excavation of these grounds?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u38	I'm not for it! Minister, thank you for that answer. It is first of all a relief to hear that there have been no injuries, not among the firefighters, not among the military, and much less among the inhabitants. Thanks to the teams who mobilized. I would also like to join those thanks. I understand my colleague Lacroix's annoyance. It is a pity that he left, because we have here clearly the result of the disinvestment of recent years in Defence personnel. The previous government, and in particular the last one, sacrificed training, well-being and ultimately public service, to the benefit of huge material investments and to the benefit of privatization. By cutting staff budgets and trying to privatize everything we can, we find ourselves having to deal with the consequences which, fortunately, this time, do not seem to be dramatic, but which could have been. It is your responsibility now, minister, to manage the consequences of this policy and to try to rebuild what must be. That is the meaning of the government's agreement, and I am pleased with it. I also mean that you are looking for the most effective way to repair the damage caused and that you are going to give time to the nature of recovering from this fire. I also read that the Lieutenant-Colonel, commander of the artillery building, was committed to strengthening dialogue with the various local partners, including the Natuur en Bos agency, to see how Defence could make structural improvements on this training ground. It ensures that Defence will take into account ecology, fire safety and training. That's obviously a good thing. I hope that the rules on firefighting can also be adapted to the consequences of global warming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Safai has asked for the floor for a personal statement. I understand that Mr Verduyckt mentioned her by name. I'll give her the floor in a minute. I would also like to point out that once again I am faced with the limitations as President, because I do not want to be involved in the debates, I can and may not be involved in the debates. It is true that the disinvestment in the Defense Department already dates from the end of the Cold War. All of this is being put in the hands of Mr Vandeput, a little too short, without wanting to pour oil on the fire.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u40	Mr President, I was going to say the same thing. That dates back years. He's not here, he's not a minister anymore. Madam Secretary, you've been working on it for a while, and you need to work on it. We cannot now talk about what happened three or four years ago. For the rest, I agree with what the President said.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u41	Mr President, this is a very important dossier, which has very serious consequences for how we will deal with the protection of these areas in the future. Mrs. Safai, you have brought up political responsibility. You threw a stone at the minister. I acknowledge that savings have been made in the past by several governments. It's not about that. I believe that everyone should show some modesty in this respect. Mrs. Safai, you spoke about the Minister's responsibility. I do not agree with that, and it is to that that I have responded, saying that we would talk better about how we can prevent this in the future. I think that is much more important than this discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u42	That's a nice ending. This concludes the topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u43	Mr President, Mr Colebunders, the Belgian position is determined by the conviction that a ban on nuclear weapons on the basis of an enforceable, verifiable, comprehensive and credible treaty is our sole objective. The German Bundestag study certainly makes a useful contribution to the legal reflection on the relationship between the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. The position of NATO remains unchanged, and in Germany the motion for signature of the TPNW was rejected within the Foreign Affairs Committee on 10 February 2021. Partly because of this, the Belgian position remains unchanged and the signing of the TPNW is not at issue in the current circumstances. As explained in the press release of my colleague Wilmès, who is competent in this matter, Belgium is determined to work for a world without nuclear weapons and, while respecting our commitments and commitments within NATO, to play a proactive role at the NPT Review Conference in August 2021. Together with NATO's European counterparts, our country will explore ways of strengthening the multilateral non-proliferation framework. From the outset, our country will be committed to the formulation of the European position, paying particular attention to the control mechanisms of disarmament and to reducing nuclear risks. This effort must be achieved through global, mutual and gradual initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u44	Madam Secretary, it's hard to follow. The current government cannot, on the one hand, support the Non-Proliferation Treaty and the danger of proliferation and, on the other hand, refuse to accede to the nuclear ban treaty, which just strengthens and complements the NPT, by finally implementing Article 6 of the Treaty. You cannot say, on the one hand, that Belgium is striving for a world without nuclear weapons and, on the other hand, join our country with the minority of Member States of the United Nations who refuse to sign the TPNW or even consider it a positive development. This is an unsustainable state of affairs which seriously hypothesizes our country's credibility as a supporter of nuclear disarmament. The PVDA reiterates that you and your government must rectify that situation as soon as possible. It will continue to emphasise that important point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u45	Debates of the European Parliament 55015629C by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u46	Mr Lacroix, it was clear from the outset that the objectives of Operation Irini were ambitious and would not be easy to achieve. It is therefore important that the Member States of the Union remain united behind the initiatives of European diplomacy, represented by Mr Borrell, High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, and continue to demonstrate this solidarity by supporting the operation in personnel and means. The High Representative has, on several occasions, recalled the international legal framework of Operation Irini. He stressed that this also applied to Turkey. The latter is obliged to comply with international obligations and to cooperate with the Union in the implementation of the United Nations embargo. NATO, for its part, seeks above all to build a form of stability in North Africa and the Middle East. Turkey's attitude is a contradiction, but it is above all important to remain vigilant with regard to the situation that is both favourable and precarious in Libya. Priority must be given to the preservation of positive gains, the consolidation of the ceasefire and the establishment of the new Government. The Alliance is an important platform for resolving the differents involving Turkey. It deals with this contradiction through technical-military de-confliction talks. NATO has already faced similar situations and has established a bilateral military de-conflicting mechanism on 1 October 2020 to manage such situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u47	Madam Minister, thank you. You have made it very clear that you have reiterated the solidarity of all the Member States of the European Union and Mr Borrell's commitment to ensure that Turkey's international obligations are respected. Turkey, obviously, is playing cavalry alone. It is not only a problem of lack of fair play, but I believe that its strategic and political interests are not necessarily those of the European Union. However, it also contradicts NATO. You recalled that a bilateral de-conflict mechanism has been implemented since October 2020. With regard to some of its members, in particular Turkey, NATO will increasingly have to resort to this bilateral de-conflict mechanism. I have the unfortunate impression. In view of the events in the Mediterranean Sea, between Greece and Cyprus, I hope that this will not lead to permanent tensions that would be problematic for the future of the Atlantic Alliance and the good collaboration within it, which some already saw in palliative care.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u48	Mr President, Mr Lacroix, at present, the two projects for the development of a sixth-generation combat aircraft, SCAF and Tempest, are still in their initial phase. The future operational capabilities of these aircraft are therefore not yet frozen. At this stage, no decision has been taken on our country's possible participation in any of these projects. The respective evolution of the two projects will be decisive when making such a strategic choice. The integration of this component into the update of Defence's strategic vision is considered based on the means available for its implementation. Such projects obviously contribute to strengthening Europe's strategic autonomy, in which our leading industries must play a role. They must therefore be accompanied and supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to report that, depending on the evolution of the two projects, this component could be integrated into Defence's strategic vision. I believe, like you, that, indeed, any European industrial initiative in the defence sector should not be neglected. On the contrary, it must be privileged as long as it is consistent with our strategic vision. But, as you said, it is a matter of European autonomy to be able to defend its interests and values but also to ensure that the leading-edge industry in Belgium and throughout the European Union can benefit from these markets, as has been done for civil aviation through the Airbus programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u50	Debates of the European Parliament 55015837C and 55015842C by Mrs Jadin are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u51	Madam Secretary, the 2016 Strategic Vision provides for the recruitment of some SOF aircraft. I've heard that the Defense Department has launched a market reconnaissance on this matter. I have the following questions. What precise questions were asked to the companies about the numbers, requirements and qualifications of the aircraft? When should the companies present their proposals? When would the Defence Department want the aircraft available and what is the planned budget for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u52	Mr Pillen, in the context of the market investigation, an application list of 190 questions was delivered to a number of companies by the end of 2020. The ultimate aim of this list is to get a clear picture of what already exists or is currently being developed on the market. All questions are linked to the initial need, as expressed in the 2016 Strategic Vision, namely four small Short Takeoff and Landing aircraft, which can be deployed from short and unprepared slopes and which, due to their relatively large range of flights and inconspicuous character, are suitable for special forces operations among others. In the context of the market investigation, the companies were asked to provide the answers by the first trimester of 2021. After analysing the answers to the questions, the final requirements will be drawn up and the dossier can be submitted to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u53	Madam Minister, if I have understood correctly, the answers are actually already in place, because the first trimester of this year is over. I am very pleased that you are working on this specific ambition and that it is continuing. I will therefore follow the dossier with great attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u54	Only Mrs Ponthier is present. Mr Francken is on his way and Mr Verduyckt has just left.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u55	Madam Minister, a complaint has recently been lodged with the International Council of Museums, the ICOM, concerning the dissemination of false cultural heritage. The reason would be that a grey uniform coat from Hermann Fegelein, brother-in-law of Adolf Hitler, has been exhibited at the Army Museum in Brussels since 2019. It is also one of the eye-catchers of the Expo War, Instrumentation, Liberation. After research it appears that the museum piece was purchased in 2012 at an auction for 32,000 euros, but that it was sold according to sources without a track record. So that is the path that has taken the coat between World War II and now. You will no doubt know that there are many counterfeits circulating from the Third Reich period that are sold as original heirlooms. The lack of a track record is then usually a suspicious fact. Yet the Army Museum has purchased the piece. Upon arrival of the museum piece a number of employees of the Army Museum reacted suspiciously and the authenticity of the piece was questioned. Nevertheless, the museum piece has since been exhibited as 'the uniform coat of Fegelein', without any reservation or footnote. Are you aware of the incident and the complaint about it? How do you respond to the messages about spreading false cultural heritage? Who is directly responsible for the purchase of the museum piece? Are you aware of other files in which the authenticity of museum items is contested? If so, which one? Since when have you been informed? What actions will you take in this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u56	I, like you and the board of the Royal Army Museum, have been informed that a complaint was filed regarding the presence of a possible false uniform in the KLM. To date, the War Heritage Institute (WHI) has received no official complaint from the International Council of Museums. The piece, a uniform attributed to SS General Hermann Fegelein, was purchased in May 2012 through the specialised and internationally recognized auction house Hermann Historica. The file shows that the uniform was interesting to illustrate, on the one hand, the crimes against the Jewish population by the Nazis and, on the other hand, to tell the last months of war, since Fegelein was hiding with Hitler in the bunker next to the Chancery. The former management of the KLM, as well as the late head of the Department of Collections, who formed the Executive Board in 2012, considered this purchase more appropriate than any other use of the available budget. The purchase file followed the normal path. Five historians and art historians analysed the proposal and gave a unanimous positive opinion. On this basis, the then director, who has been retired for a long time, and was responsible for the purchase at that time, approved an offer of up to 26,000 euros at no cost. The existing purchasing policy was strictly followed. The piece was purchased at no cost for 24,000 euros and was intended for a future permanent exhibition on the end of World War II. It is also in this context that the document is being prepared today. The document was studied by the scientific staff of the KLM and it shows that the textile used, both for the uniform and for the plates, corresponds to the period in question. I have no idea that the staff members would have had doubts about its authenticity when purchasing the document or since. As part of the judicial investigation, the WHI delivered textile samples of the uniform to the National Institute of Criminal and Criminology. After an initial examination, an additional verification by another expert is now under way. In addition, the WHI itself started an investigation, based on the elements mentioned in the press. Once all the elements on which the day is based are known, I will have them examined as well. Since the establishment of the WHI since 2017, all documents above the 2,500 euros pass the consultative purchasing committee and the decision is taken by the board of directors. This year 20,000 euros were budgeted for purchases. The documents purchased must be related to the WHI's contracts. The WHI will therefore do everything in its power to build in a maximum control when purchasing new pieces with any profile. Whether it may be considered to hold the seller or the auction house responsible will depend on the outcome of the investigation. Furthermore, I have no knowledge of other similar problems. To my knowledge, this is a single case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u57	Mr President, I was late, so I only heard part of the answer. I'll read it in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u58	Madam Secretary, the complaint is pending. We will, of course, have to wait and see what the outcome of that complaint will be. It is at least a very painful fact that an eye-catcher like this, a so-called "sexy piece" from the period of the Second World War, which is part of the exhibition on World War II, is apparently a forged piece. You say it's all unconfirmed, but the evidence is just there. There are pieces that show it's a forged piece. You know that this is not a one-off fact among those original heirlooms, as they are called, from the Third Reich period. This is obviously one of them. It is a very painful fact that this museum, whose director is very committed to the memory of that period of the Second World War, is also faced with a complaint about racist statements and hate speech. In addition to this fact, of course, it is also an infringement of the deontological code. Apart from the disciplinary or criminal investigation that is still ongoing, this is also a major factor in the field of deontology. As far as I'm concerned, it's like in the Van Gogh Museum or in the Magrittemuseum forged pieces are being exhibited as if they were original pieces. You know, without a track record, the appearance or appearance of such pieces is suspicious, all the more so because huge sums of money are made from these forgeries, especially with heritage from the Third Reich period. The auction house to which you refer does not offer any guarantee of authenticity, and the KLM knew that at the time of the purchase. The piece was also not examined for authenticity. Evidence of forgery was also delivered to the Army Museum in 2013, while the permanent exhibition of this piece that is suspected of being false was not officially announced until 2019. So they've known for six years that the piece has been faked. It has not been followed up. I do not think that you can join the management and that you should follow the investigation very closely. At least we will.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u59	Madam Secretary, I strongly support helicopter capacity and the acquisition of additional helicopters. I am also convinced that possible synergies need to be examined at all times with our partners abroad, and I am in favour of Benelux capacity in the field of helicopters -- but also with partners in our own country. Efficiency in budget and resources must always be at the heart of this. Federal police have a fleet of McDonnell Douglas helicopters. Recently, one of those planes celebrated its 30th birthday. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Has there been or planned consultation between the federal police and the Defense Department on the possibilities of addressing challenges related to helicopter capacity together in the future, such as training, maintenance or joint replacement of Light Utility Helicopters, LUHs?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u60	Mr Pillen, in the context of the acquisition of military equipment, any analysis of possible synergies at national and international level is part of a study within Defence. In this particular case, no consultation or consultation with the federal police for possible cooperation has been carried out so far. In the informal exchanges, the federal police did not mention any intention to replace its helicopter fleet McDonnell Douglas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u61	Madam Minister, it is a good thing that the reflex has been absorbed to see whether cooperation with other disciplines is possible or desirable. I continue to hope for the purchase of Light Utility Helicopters for the next few years. If the Alouette disappears in the middle of 2021 and if the last 12 Agusta helicopters are end-of-life at the end of the 20s, then I really think we need to replace this capacity. I believe that we are still doing the best we can at Benelux level. We still have time, but I think by then we'll be picking up signals from the federal police that that's where the search for replacement started. I understand your position today, but I think that this is something that we will have to follow up on in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u62	Madam Minister, I had already put a written question on the noise level of the F-35, but I still have a few additional questions, because in the meantime I have heard that in a report on the future noise level of the F-35, the Netherlands has found that there is something going on. A reportage has caused a fuss, even in our country, because in the meantime the Bocholt City Council has called upon Captain Knockaert and Colonel Poesen to explain this. We still have some time, because the F-35 is not yet here, but I suggest that this arrival be well prepared, so that we have some answers to any later problems. In Norway, 130 houses were bought up and more than 1,000 houses were isolated. Therefore, I cannot get rid of the impression that something is going on. I would also like to refer to the text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u63	The noise load was taken into account in the replacement file F-16. You can find the technical details of this in the answer to your question No. 173, to which you refer. The defence staff has the same acoustic data as the other F-35 users and has contacts with other F-35 users. The ongoing infrastructure file to support the F-35 aircraft, which will be used from Florennes and Kleine-Brogel flight bases, also takes into account acoustic loads for staff and residents. All Belgian F-35 devices are supplied in the latest standard configuration available. There is only one type of engine available for that device. There are no possibilities to adjust the engines or apparatus or to impose additional requirements on the acoustic profile. With regard to noise monitoring, the Ministry of Defence does not have an authority responsible for monitoring noise. In this context, I would like to note that the flight plan for the F-35 in regime puts more than 30% less flight hours ahead of the current flight plan for the F-16. On an annual basis, this will result in a significant reduction in noise. The pilots will be converted to the F-35 from 2023 to 2028 at Luke Air Force Base in Arizona. Today is the initial conversion of the fighter pilots for the F-16 in Belgium. As the training involves more local noise, through repeated practice of take-off and landing manoeuvres, the local noise load will thus also be further reduced. No expropriation, financial compensation or proposals for the installation of acoustic installations with residents are planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u64	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I also understood that the F-35 will fly less than the F-16. However, that is not really the problem in itself. I come from the region where the F-16 flies a lot. We know the sound. It's a sound that's a lot of support for. I hear from the Netherlands that there is a problem especially with countries. When the sound really hurts the neighbors, even if it is less, then that really is a problem. There will undoubtedly be fewer problems in this area in the area of Kleine Brogel. I just want to point out that we have time to prepare. We can do perfect simulations, especially when it turns out that the sound of the F-35s we will buy is about the same as of the devices that the Netherlands has. That is why I call for proper preparation so that problems are avoided. You say that no measures such as expropriation are planned today. If we find that the noise is much worse than we feared in advance, we will not be confronted with it in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u65	Mr President, Minister, a letter from a 2019 government commissioner to the Minister for the Budget concerning the financial functioning of the War Heritage Institute was mentioned in the press a while ago. The government commissioner's report included years of neglect, a highly neglected infrastructure, management that is excessively focused on external representation, lack of management capabilities, lack of uniformity and coherence of personnel. Other reports and letters from the Minister for the Budget addressed to the Director-General are also mentioned in the reports of the WHI Board. In the context of the problems in the WHI and the appointment of Mr Jaupart as top manager announced by you, it is important to have a look at the most recent situation. After all, we need to ensure the proper functioning of the WHI and we need to be able to monitor it. In addition, we must be sure that the financial policy of the WHI is in a better situation than their HR policy, as established by the Court of Auditors. Since your arrival in October 2020 have any letters or reports been sent by the Government Commissioner or by the Secretary of State for the Budget? If so, we ask you for a copy of this, in the context of the public access to the administration and our right of access, or at least to make it available by the usual means. If not, we will ask for a copy of the most recent report or the last letter on the financial operation of the WHI that has been forwarded to your predecessor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u66	Mr President, Minister, more than those bad files and the troubles surrounding the appointment of the Director, my concern is mainly with the staff. I understand there's been a questioning about that. That is why I would have liked to ask if we could have access to those documents. As the Committee on Petitions has begun, I will not replicate anymore and I will read the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u67	Mr President, Ms Ponthier, Mr Verduyckt, the WHI was signed by the Secretary of State for the Budget on 23 December 2020 and 10 February 2021. With regard to the letter of 10 February, I can confirm that the accounts of the WHI, audited by the company auditor, were submitted to the budget administration within the deadlines laid down. The 2019 staff survey is known. On the basis of that survey, an action plan was submitted to the Governing Board, which was subsequently approved. As a result, the HR team received reinforcements, which means that it can now count on five employees, including an experienced manager. Staff data were entered in PersoPoint for the purpose of automation of its handling. Internal communication will be strengthened with the help of a new intranet, aimed at increasing the participation of both civilian and military personnel. A staff plan 2021, approved by the Management Board, is in place and provides for the recruitment of 26 new employees, which will reduce the workload of current staff and improve their distribution. The implementation of this plan is the subject of a monthly follow-up by the Management Board. My cabinet will hand over the correspondence, together with the response of the WHI to a previous letter dated 23 December 2020 and the staff survey of 2019, to the secretariat of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u68	Madam Minister, your answer to my question was very concise. You said there was effective correspondence on behalf of our Secretary of State for the Budget. You also said that the accounts were submitted within the deadline. That should still be wrong. But of course the content is also of count. I asked you whether we would have access to the right of access in the context of public access to public administration. You didn't say you'd do that and how you'd do it. We have been able to look at the reports of the Management Board in a confidential manner. Maybe that's how it's gonna happen now? Of course what's in there is on count. We all know that the financial management of the WHI has failed in recent years, as has the general policy of the WHI. After all, the WHI is a non-important institution for this committee. I didn't hear you answer that. Mr President, I don't know if I...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u69	The minister shouldn't answer. It's question, answer and then reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u70	That answer was very concise and does not go into the content at all. Mr President, I hope that we do not follow the same path as we did in the reports on the removal of the C-130 that we requested. Madam Secretary, are you going to make them available and how will that happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u71	(...) As I said in my last speech, we will forward the documents to the secretariat of the committee. Then, if they don't suit you, we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u72	As soon as the committee secretariat has received the documents, we will inform you about them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u73	Mr President, I hope that this can be achieved in the short term. I would like to thank the Minister for her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u74	The next two questions are mine. Is it okay if I ask those questions from this chair? I can assure the committee that I will stick to the speaking time and show the necessary discipline. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u75	Madam Secretary, under the European Recovery Fund, Defence submitted two priority projects. On the one hand, cyber capacity, amounting to EUR 29 million and on the other hand, for the quarters of the future, for a sum of EUR 100 million. According to your own statement in the Commission of 10 February 2021, Europe's funding was necessary for the feasibility of these projects, as Defence can only fund a small part of itself. However, we are now hearing that the barracks of the future will not be part of the federal plan submitted to the European Commission. However, they would remain a priority for the government. This raises a number of budgetary questions. Madam Minister, can you confirm that your government no longer wishes to appeal to the European funds for the announced plans for the quarters of the future? What is the specific motivation behind this? What impact does this have on the projects? Are they being deleted or financed in any other way? Will this in the latter case affect the scale of the projects and/or the planned implementation period? What other funding is possible and, given the mixed nature of these quarters, should they be financed solely by the Defence Department or by a common commission? If the project is continued, is there a view of the possible distribution key between the two projects and their concrete installation? Projects of the Government of the Buildings, including for the Cinquantenaire Park, would also have been removed from the federal plan. What influence does this have on the future of the museum site of the Royal Army Museum?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u76	The government has decided not to re-enter the Quarters of the future on the list of projects of the European Recovery Fund. These will form part of the Federal Plan for Relance and Investment, for which the government will pay more than EUR 100 million. This decision has no impact on the projects nor on the planned implementation period. A fine-tuning of funding will only be possible once the government has taken a decision on the planting of quarters and negotiations with the respective regional and local partners will be further advanced. The planned renovation of the museum site of the Army Museum is also integrated into the federal plan of relance and investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u77	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. So it will no longer be financed by the European Fund, but the government is committed to financing these funds through the federal relay budgets. You are talking about more than EUR 100 million. We talked about 129 million euros. I assume that is about the effective EUR 129 million and not just over EUR 100 million. We still have a general concern about the announced plans concerning staff, quarters and many initiatives that are being brought into line. We are concerned about budgeting and its financial consequences. You said in February that the European funds are really necessary in order to obtain funding. It is now clear that this will not be possible through Europe. The motivation within the federal government not to present this in Europe is not entirely clear to us. We will continue to question you about the budgetary aspect in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u78	Madam Minister, on 26 March the Netherlands and Germany signed an agreement to continue to join forces in the development, purchase and maintenance of equipment. They will continue to focus on research and development, requirements package, planning and acquisition, upgrades and adaptation, and they want to further streamline their shared industrial interests. Especially with regard to the latter, the Netherlands and Germany are increasingly striving for a bilateral defence technological and industrial base, in order to maintain an industrial capacity. The Netherlands aligns itself with Germany, not only operationally but increasingly strategically, now with a deepening of joint acquisition processes. The Netherlands is also a privileged partner of our Defence in many areas, and in several other questions colleagues have already referred to our good cooperation with Germany and your contacts with your German colleague. Madam Minister, can you give an assessment of the benefits of the agreement, particularly in terms of increased industrial cooperation between the two countries? What is the potential impact of further cooperation between the Netherlands and Germany on our defence, for example for our privileged partnerships on artillery and joint acquisition processes, such as for the drones? Are you negotiating with the Netherlands or Germany to strengthen our cooperation during the coming reign?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u79	The Netherlands and Germany have long worked together in the field of defence. They have strengthened their bond, especially in the Land domain with the creation of the Dutch-German army corps, and in the Navy domain with cooperation on maritime programs. The cooperation agreement between the Netherlands and Germany will provide new opportunities for both countries in terms of both their capacity development and the maintenance of existing equipment. These opportunities could be beneficial for Belgium with a view to future cooperation with these two major European partners. Belgium has been working closely with the Netherlands and Germany on defence for years and is participating in several projects, such as the development of a new mine-countermeasures capacity with the Netherlands or the purchase of new night vision goggles with Germany. Such bilateral projects will undoubtedly continue to be possible in the future. The defence staff regularly meets with, among other things, the Netherlands and Germany to identify and realise possible future cooperation opportunities. Moreover, a Belgian defence industry and research strategy is currently being developed, with the aim of making our cooperation with national industry more concrete and thus, in cooperation with our industry, evolving towards more international partnerships.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u80	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I am pleased with your understanding that there are many opportunities for cooperation with both the Netherlands and Germany. You referred to the work of the defence staff. I invite you to make that clear in political terms too. I repeat my plea that your German fellow minister should also give the signal that we see salvation in enhanced cooperation with both the Netherlands and Germany.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u81	Madam Minister, last week I asked you about sexism in the Defence. This week my question concerns the reception of women within the institution itself. The Swiss army has announced that it will provide uniforms designed also for women and not only for men. This announcement is part of a desire to increase their proportion in the confederation army. That is an objective we share with our Swiss friends. As a result of this announcement, I made some contacts with female recruits from our Defence to find out what was happening with us. It turns out that the situation is not bright. Indeed, it is my responsibility that the outfits are often too large or inadequately adapted and that this can cause functional problems (manches that cling to each other, etc.).). In doing so, women have their uniforms taken over by civilian tailors, and thus at their own expense, so that they fall better or are more comfortable. With regard to official dress and administrative dress, I have learned that in staffing, women receive two skirts and trousers and that these skirts are sometimes required during certain ceremonies. As these skirts do not have a pocket, they also receive a handbag. Finally, with regard to tailor-made clothing, it is not uncommon for recruits to wait for several years, sometimes up to five years, to have an official dress. Not to mention the fitting that must be done in places that are not easily accessible and remote in Belgium. Minister, is it envisaged to adapt the uniforms in the future? Can the women of the army return fees if they have their uniforms returned to the civilian? Why can it be demanded that a woman wear a skirt at certain ceremonies? Will ceremonial dress be adapted so as not to get into sexist clichés? Can you guarantee that the provision of official clothing will be made in the future in a shorter period of time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u82	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Defossé, when a recruit starts her basic training, she receives a combat outfit as a first endowment (camouflage clothing, boots, etc.).). The delivery of this outfit is made from the first days of incorporation. The general rule is that all military personnel must a priori find a size suitable for them in the many sizes proposed. The combat or camouflaged outfit is currently unisex. But in the procurement processes that are under way, we demand a solution by sex. The exit outfit also known as dress service is also awarded as the first endowment to military candidates. If adjustments are to be made to the cut, they are taken over by Defence and the distribution takes place five weeks after action is taken. Women's jackets are custom-made. This is also the case for men if there is no ready-to-wear available. In the case of tailor-made manufacture, delivery by the firm is planned ten weeks after taking measures. The recruit does not pay for her first outfits and receives a monthly allowance of 65 euros for the maintenance and replacement of her outfits. The administrative outfit leaves the ladies the free choice between wearing the skirt or pants. It is only during certain ceremonies that the choice can be imposed by the authority, and this in the interests of uniformity, just as it is customary, in many trades, to impose a working outfit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u83	Minister, thank you for that answer. I am pleased to hear that, in future purchasing procedures, we will try to find solutions to ensure that outfits are tailored to the type of person. I think we are well inspired to replicate what is being done in Switzerland. As we're trying to attract more women into the Defence, it's important. They must feel properly welcomed and the institution itself must adapt to that will. I confess that I still do not understand why, in the twenty-first century, one can still, for the sake of uniformity, force a military woman to wear a skirt, while she has also received trousers, while the men themselves are in trousers. I guess not all men and women will be in skirts. It would be interesting to be able to review those decisions. In my view, this choice must be left to the discretion of the only lady according to her preferences. Also, for the purse. It is time to focus on efficiency and practical meaning rather than aesthetic assignments. I'm sure you'll be paying attention to this in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u84	In fact, I had not finished my answer. There were a few lines that clarified that, contrary to what was included in the article on the Swiss decision, we have been planning, for a number of years, specifically feminine outfits for administrative outfits, and that we plan to extend this to combat outfits.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u85	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55016309C, 55016310C, 55016312C and 55016314C by Mr Francken and No. Mr Pillen's 55016519C were postponed in consultation with the proposers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u86	Madam Minister, since I wanted to get some figures, I have already asked a written question on this matter. From your answer to my written parliamentary question No. 144 of 11 February 2021 shows that Defence received significantly more noise complaints in 2020 than in 2019. In barely a year the number of complaints rose sharply from 113 to 145. The most striking increase is seen in the province of Antwerp, where the number rose from 15 to 72 in a year, almost five times as much as the year before. Before I give some interpretation of that, I think it would be useful to hear from you what the causes are. I have seen tables showing that only a limited number of complaints were justified, so I think it is a little premature to say that there would be a spectacular increase at one time due to corona or increased activities by Defence. That is why I would like to hear from you whether you yourself have an explanation for the massive increase in the number of complaints about noise from military aircraft. How do you intend to prevent such a form of nuisance from undermining the support of the Defense Department? Just now there was a question about the future sound of the F-35, but based on the figures there is apparently also a problem at the moment. Of the total number of complaints by 2020, only two are well founded. In 2019 this was still the case for 24 out of 113 complaints. How do you explain the small number of well-founded complaints? Can you provide the figures of the number of people who have filed a complaint with the Defense Department in the past year? For example, if it is one person who has submitted 100 complaints, it slightly distorts the image. I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u87	Mr Buysrogge, the last year has been exceptional in several respects. For example, the measures taken in the fight against the coronavirus have had a palpable impact on the way complaints manifest. Since the beginning of the sanitary crisis in March 2020, the Complaint Management Service has seen a significant increase in noise complaints, despite the fact that it has not been accompanied by an increase in military practice, on the contrary. During more than three quarters of the past year, the vast majority of the Belgian population have spent much more time at home than usual, following the directive on teleworking and not travelling abroad. Regular practice flights and shooting exercises were therefore observed more quickly and frequently, especially in those regions of the country where practice zones are located and where the population used to spend most of their time at home outside working hours. A complaint shall be considered admissible if all basic formal requirements are met and if the information relating to the complaint is not available on the defence mil.be website. For the past year, the Defense Department has been working on the website in depth. A lot of information about the practice activities is now explained on the website. During 2020, complaints management service received 459 complaints and questions from the civilian population.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u88	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. That increase is spectacular. You say that this is due to corona, which makes people more at home and thus more affected by the nuisance. Fortunately, Flanders has a society with many active people, who now have to do more work at home. I can imagine that they now experience this in a more negative way. It is important, however, that the DOD deals with this in a good way. There's gotta be practice. The aircraft must be able to do their job, but it is important for the Defense to communicate in a good, modern way and to deal with the criticism that comes in. From your reply, I conclude that this is not a single person's complaint, but complaints from many citizens. That is a sign that we must take this seriously. The rules must be respected. We need to communicate in a good, contemporary, modern way. We certainly want to continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u89	Madam Secretary, in response to a previous parliamentary question, you said that the War Heritage Institute (WHI) is planning to transfer the post-war military-historical heritage from the Gunfiresite in Brasschaat to Ypres. The move would be motivated by the poor condition of the available buildings in Brasschaat and the larger and more modern storage sheds in Ypres. It is reported that maintenance work was planned for the Brasschaat site, but the WHI would never have provided the funding allocated to it. At the beginning of 2023, the transfer would begin. The operation would take two years. The volunteers of the Gunfiresite in Brasschaat would be welcome in the workshop and sheds in Ypres, so you said in your reply. The WHI would also put its expertise at the service of projects of the municipality of Brasschaat to set up a new museum project at the Gunfiresite. Is the information correct that the money earmarked for maintenance work that might have made a transfer to Ypres redundant never ended up at the Gunfiresite? Did you or the WHI receive a response from the volunteers at the Gunfiresite? Do they want to use their expertise on the new site in Ypres? Was a satisfaction survey conducted with the staff of the Gunfire Museum in Brasschaat? What are the results compared to the satisfaction survey at the WHI in Brussels? Do you and the WHO consider it problematic that Ypres has little connection to the military-historical heritage of the Cold War? After all, the city of Ypres has expertise in World War I and is also known to the general public. What is the status of the planned move to Ypres? What preparations have already been made for the move in 2023 and the planned opening in 2025 in Ypres? Can you confirm that all the equipment from the Gunfire Museum will be transferred to Ypres? If not, what is brought to where? It was promised, among other things, that nothing would be removed in Bastenaken. Is the reverse also true for the Gunfire Museum, namely that this will also be kept intact on the new site?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u90	The site belongs to the Defense Department. Apart from one warehouse, the buildings are in poor condition. Defence has indicated that they no longer want to invest in this infrastructure. In 2016 and 2017, by the way, a reflection exercise on the future of the site was already made, together with the municipality. Even then, it was stated that the only sustainable solution, in any direction, was degradation and new construction, not renovation. The municipality of Brasschaat has not allowed the WHI to receive a response since. There is always the possibility for a museum project. On the site two groups of volunteers are active, those who have a link with the artillery and those who work on the tanks. The artillery volunteers are generally older and come from the immediate vicinity of Brasschaat. They did start a petition because they didn't want to make the switch to Ypres. The volunteers of the tanks are usually younger and come from farther. Several of them have already indicated their desire to continue their activities in Ypres. It will certainly be possible to attract new volunteers locally. The WHI does not employ any active staff on Gunfire, but a volunteer has the status of contractor. No volunteers were questioned at any site during the WHI satisfaction survey. Only the staff has been questioned. The depot in Ypres was built in the fifties with a view to the command bunker under the Kemmelberg, icons of the Cold War and site of the WHI. The bunker is located eight kilometers from the barracks in Ypres. At the end of the commemorations around one hundred years of Great War, Ypres and the Westhoek are also looking for diversification in the supply of the vast military-related tourism. The development of the new site in Ypres fits perfectly into that. Within the WHI, a task force has been set up to manage the move. The operation consists of three parts, namely the transport of the pieces, the initial basic layout of the depot at Ypres and at a later stage the further development of the site. For transport the possibilities are examined in collaboration with Defence and in combination with private transport. In the meantime, an innovative and dynamic concept is also under consideration and possible partnerships are being tested. At the beginning of 2022, a first plan for the move, operation, staff and marketing is proposed for the new Ypres site. The closure of the deposit function in Brasschaat is included in that plan. The site in Ypres has 19,000 square meters of buildings in good condition and offers more than enough space to accommodate all parts of Gunfire. A number of pieces can also be transferred to Ypres from other places. In the rolling stock, the WHI applies the principle that all parts of World War II go to Bastogne and everything from the Cold War to Ypres. A number of pieces from the Second World War were indeed used by the Belgian army until the early 1950s. There are several copies, such as an M47 Patton, so they can be exhibited both in Bastogne and Ypres. The vehicles from that overlapping period of which we have only one copy, can be counted on one hand. The placement will have to be assessed individually. In that sense, it is not excluded that some pieces of Bastogne move to Ypres. On Gunfire there are only a few artillery pieces from before World War II. These are pieces that used to be in the KLM in Brussels and that came to Brasschaat because of lack of space in the KLM. Pieces of World War II go consistently to Bastogne. For those who were subsequently used by the Belgian army in the Cold War, the logic that has just been explained will be followed. I would like to remind you that the collection is federal and remains managed by the War Heritage Institute. There is a clear logic that will also be applied consistently.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u91	Madam Minister, you replied to my second question that a number of people have already indicated that they are going to be active in Ypres. You speak of different people. I don't know how many people this is about. Can you clarify that? In relation to the essence of this story, you indicate that the choice was made not to renovate but to go for a new building. That was the option. You were looking for an alternative. There is no need for additional clarification that we do not think that this is a right and proper decision, for many reasons, in particular the efforts that have been made in the past to develop and maintain the Brasschaat site. There is also the fact that the site Gunfire and the municipality Brasschaat are unmistakably intertwined with the military past. It's about more than 200 years of presence anyway. The collection there also reminds of that long period. It is important that this collection can be maintained at the current location, to keep that memory alive and maintained by a motivated team of volunteers. I therefore regret that decision, and with me also a very large number of other people, not least the volunteers themselves, which need no further explanation. I would ask you to remain in touch with all the actors involved, both the municipality and the volunteers on the ground, and to look at the best possible solution. An alternative on the site in Brasschaat may be considered, so that the memory of that long military past can be perpetuated on the spot. After all, there really is a need for that. The question is also very great. I would like to stress once again the question of not taking it completely out of the way and going further. With regard to the financial side of the story, I have in the meantime asked you a written question. I expect an answer to that soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u92	Madam Minister, in committee on 24 February, you assured us in a topical debate that the problems encountered with the HRM@Defence software would be resolved by March. However, it seems that today there are still problems, particularly with respect to premiums and travel refunds. Incomplete wages are also recorded. Minister, can you give me an update on the situation? Are all problems now resolved and are all late payments caught up? What measures have been taken to support military personnel in encoding their benefits? Have these responsibilities been identified?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u93	Dear colleague, I had planned an answer in Dutch and French because there was also a question from Mr Franken. It is quite understandable that problems with delays in the payment of certain allowances and allowances lead to annoyance or frustration among staff. Late payments originate from errors still present in the system after its implementation on 4 January 2021, and from the use of the validation and registration module for benefit planning, which is a problem for some users. There are sometimes problems with the processing of certain historical benefits, i.e. benefits already introduced into the old systems before the migration of data to HRM@Defence. Most of the problems concerned, inter alia, the payment of benefits from operations as well as the payment of overtime and telework during the months preceding the changeover. In the meantime, these have largely been resolved. The delay will be overtaken by the payments that will be made in April. Due to ongoing regularisations and adjustments to the system, no exact amounts and numbers can currently be quantified. As a first step, priority was given to problems affecting a large number of staff, whether financial or non-financial. Thus, individual cases may still be detected or communicated. All financial rights of Defence personnel shall be guaranteed retroactively. All of the Defense personnel will always get what's right. A contact point was set up for staff facing financial difficulties due to a number of late payments. These applications will be processed with the highest priority. At the same time, a tool giving transparency between what is recorded in HRM@Defence and what is actually paid is made available to each staff member. Information and training sessions have been launched since January 2021. The aim is to provide them with accurate information with updates on the state of affairs in HRM@Defence or on certain topics about which the helpdesk of HRM@Defence receives many questions. In addition to these information sessions and training sessions, the HRM@Defence team frequently communicates on specific topics with specific target groups. All documentation such as FAQs, instructional films, including information sessions, course material, Wiki help pages is made available to all users in a single location. Finally, the documentation is adapted if necessary in the light of developments. However, the recruitment of additional staff under the Rosetta plan has not yet been decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u94	Minister, thank you for your answers. This software seems to have had serious running problems. I hope that everything will soon be settled, that the necessary training will be provided and that all staff members will see their situation regularized as soon as possible. I appreciate the efforts you have made in terms of communication. This is the key to managing the legitimate frustrations of Defence personnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u95	Madam Minister, my question was tabled before the topical debate on the incident in Brecht. There are, however, some interfaces in terms of questions and concerns. Between Monday 19 April and Friday 7 May there are military exercises in East Flanders, mainly in the Denderstreek. About 1,000 soldiers are participating. Low-flying activities may take place, and exercise munitions may explode. Madam Minister, when were the cities and municipalities concerned notified and how did this happen? Were there discussions with representatives of these cities and municipalities, among other things, about the impact of the exercises? Are there specific reasons why this region was selected, e.g. landscapes, urbanisation, road patterns, etc.? Were there consultations with civil society organisations, such as interest groups for agriculture, hunting, the environment and animal protection? If so, with whom, when and in what way? In view of the relatively dense public transport network of the region, the question arises as to whether public transport nuisance is possible as a result of the exercise. How is this communicated and is compensation provided for? Who can be addressed in the event of damage to crops, for example? Is compensation provided for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u96	Mr President, Mr De Spiegeleer, all authorities, governmental and police services, cities and municipalities and De Vlaamse Waterweg were informed on 11 March 2021 via a note. Those authorities had until 2 April 2021 to submit comments and advice to the Province Command. No comments or comments were received, even after 2 April. The governor's services have asked some more technical questions, in the sense of 'what should we imagine in patrols', 'what is white ammunition' and so on? There has always been consultation between the provincial command on the one hand and the services of the governor, the motorized brigade and the cabinet of the CHOD on the other. Among the most important points in this context is the preparation of a news report in close cooperation with the services of the governor of the province of East Flanders. The text was delivered to the local authorities concerned. Other important points are proposing a visit to that exercise and involving the province of West Flanders, as this exercise takes place in both provinces. In recent years, major exercises have usually been organized in Wallonia. For Celtic Uprise, due to geographical diversification, another region was chosen, in particular East and West Flanders. This region offers both urbanised areas and vast rural areas. Moreover, East Flanders is a province with a rather limited permanent military presence, by organising this exercise here we increase the visibility of Defence. As a result of the French sanitary covid directives, the French military no longer participate in this exercise, which is slightly smaller than initially foreseen. In total, a total of 500 soldiers are involved. The Nature and Forest Agency, the flying clubs at the airport in Ursel and so on, were notified in advance for a long time. As required by the Standing Orders Directive for the military activities in Belgium, a commission was set up for maneuver damage. Anyone who has suffered damage can contact us via a free number to report this damage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u97	Madam Minister, thank you for your largely clear answers. I am pleased, and I am sure my colleague, Mr Buysrogge, that you have noticed that there is a limited military presence in East Flanders. We remember the questions about Gavere's barracks, I think. However, I noticed that several cities and provinces communicate very late and briefly to their people. Maybe that's on them. Maybe I can't just throw that stone at you, and I won't. Thank you for your answers and perhaps until next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic452x.u98	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Lacroix's 55016818C and 55017003C are converted into written questions.
