ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u1	Questions Nos 55014922C and 55015682C by Mr Anseew and 55015980C by Mrs Lanjri are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u2	Madam President, Minister, this issue was raised during the discussion of the policy paper. You said at the time that you would work on a number of provisions relating to the Renault Act, an evaluation and a possible revision of the law. Your predecessors have also taken steps in this area. The 2018 and 2019 initiatives have come to an end in the NAR. Things aren't changing, but that's for a later debate. There were recommendations on the table then. There were also concerns about co-contractors and subcontractors. It was also about information to Parliament. I am also thinking about what should happen for people who leave early, without a social plan, and about the commitment to social plan. We know the recommendations that were on the table at the time, as part of the evaluation. The measures relating to temporary unemployment, the aid package and the many aids are coming to an end, some before the summer, some in September. We can expect restructuring to come. They are already there, but we suspect that this situation will become even more serious. What are your plans? Does the government have any plans for revision, modernisation and adaptation? What is your position on the recommendations made at the time? Are you prepared to take over a number of matters from there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u3	Over the past few weeks, we have seen various redundancies announcements, sometimes in sectors that make significant profits. I will not go back to emblematic examples such as Fedex or Ryanair who took advantage of the Renault procedure to put pressure on salaries. The Renault law, which dates back to 1998, has many flaws, in particular with regard to the taking into account of the companies or the affected subcontractors, but also the timing of information and consultation, which are often more of a formality in a decision that has already been taken by the company. It is known that the previous government had begun discussions, but no consensus had been reached. You have mentioned several times the need for an evolution and improvement of the Renault law. Given the current context, this step is becoming urgent. What is the timing of the government in this regard? Have you ever started discussions with the social partners? If not, are they planned in the coming weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u4	For the organisation of the afternoon, until question 14 – because we had sometimes asked questions together on slightly different axes – Gaby will refer to his written questions. In this case, we introduced two questions on the situation of the Renault law: one more general and the other starting from the concrete situation of the dismissals at IBM. More generally, we see that in practice there is room for discussion on the assessment of this Renault law, which initially had the role, in addition to respect for social consultation, of aiming for maximum retention of employment when it comes to restructuring. In this context, of course, there is the whole debate about what is being done with all these multinationals that are launching restructuring plans while they continue to make profits. In particular, we have a bill – called the InBev law at the time – where we ask at the political level to ban dismissals when there are profits. I think there is a proposal for a law of the Socialist Party that goes in the same direction. Today, it is really important to take stock of this. In particular, in the situation of concern to IBM workers, the minister was asked to comment on what he thought of the situation there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u5	Minister, as you said earlier, last year you announced an evaluation of the Renault Act. Interesting about this dossier is a number of opinions issued by the National Labour Council at the end of last year. At the end of 2019 a recommendation, No. 28 if I'm not mistaken. The opinions and recommendations aim, inter alia, to improve the flow of information in the event of restructuring, but also to facilitate the orderly start-up of firms in restructuring. Where do you stand on this announced evaluation? What aspects of the opinions and recommendations of the social partners do you wish to take into account? What other elements do you take into account? More specifically, I have heard quite recently that some social partners once again want to put the increase in the SWT age on the table in the event of restructuring. Are you willing to go along with that? More generally, in what sense would you like to amend the Renault Act?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u6	Mr Minister, the corona crisis is, of course, very much affecting our companies today. Many large and small businesses are facing the water. Unfortunately, for one, this ends in bankruptcy and for the other in very serious restructuring, with possible collective redundancies. The Law Renault will then be activated. In the discussion of your policy paper, you indicated that you would evaluate certain provisions relating to this law. What evaluation do you make of the current Renault Act? Are there any concrete proposals from the government to amend this law? Are the recommendations of the NAR of December 2019, from before the corona crisis, all equally topical?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u7	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is an important and complex issue because it is linked to particular situations, for some of the more specific aspects raised by Members of Parliament. I am thinking in particular of the situation at Ryanair and the situation at IBM. Work to implement the opinion of the National Labour Council of 27 October 2020 on solutions to centralise texts and improve the flow of information between companies and authorities has already begun. As far as centralisation of information is concerned, the restructuring site.be already concentrates all the regulations on this subject. Improvements, including readability, are under consideration. Particular attention will also be paid to the various updates. The establishment of a single window allowing notifications between authorities and undertakings in the event of collective redundancies must be the subject of an agreement with the regional authorities. To this end, contacts are already under way and some avenues have already been explored for its technical implementation. Finally, my administration is willing to devote part of its website to providing information on good practice in the event of collective redundancies. Nevertheless, it is up to the social partners to contribute to these pages by selecting the examples of good practice they would like to see published. Nevertheless, beyond the implementation of this opinion of the NTC, we believe it is essential to continue work on several aspects. I've already been able to introduce them to you. First of all, as you know, the sustainability of employment and the alternatives to dismissal are of paramount importance to me, in the general context, but even more so today, in the context of the crisis that we are experiencing. I think we all share that goal. This is in particular the question of the link with public aid paid to certain undertakings. As part of the support measures taken during the Coronavirus crisis, you have had the opportunity to see that we no longer hesitate to condition these support measures. I am thinking in particular of support measures to avoid redundancies in the travel and event sector. For example, the aid measures were clearly conditioned here. The workers concerned should not be dismissed, social consultation should be carried out, the employer should make a training effort and no dividends and such payments should be made in 2021. The intention is to link support measures to conditions, including the prohibition of dismissal, the obligation to train, etc. In particular with regard to the follow-up to the Ryanair case, my firm and I have followed and will continue to follow this case closely, in order to ensure that this company, like all the others, respects our social model and our laws, without however instrumentalising them. I will come back to the situation of Ryanair in response to Mrs Cornet's question on the compliance by Ryanair with the legislation and the role of social inspection, which will come later on our agenda. With regard to the more specific situation of IBM, my firm received last Friday the trade union representatives of IBM, who also highlighted shortcomings in the Renault procedure and possible instrumentalisation of it. The management of IBM has unilaterally closed the first phase of the procedure and it must be noted that the spirit of social consultation seems to have been left out. Concertation is scheduled for Thursday, May 6, 2021 within the SPF. Of course, I call for the resumption of negotiations and the normalisation of dialogue in the common interest, especially since society seems to be doing very well financially. As regards the possibility of the transfer of certain workers to Kyndryl, this must also be discussed with trade union representatives. In any event, workers who would be transferred must be able to benefit at least from the protective provisions of CTC No 32a. I will, of course, follow this file closely as well, like the other files that you have mentioned – or not, for at all times the question of the effectiveness of the law and the fact that it is not instrumentalised must arise and be verified. It is clear that such social dramas resonate like so many screams and signals that we cannot silence or pretend to ignore. Particular attention will therefore be paid to this. Of course, the Renault law on the trade will also have to be put back in a wider way and the discussion on the whole issue will have to be revived. I will shortly address a number of proposals and guidelines on which the social partners will have to position themselves. We are thinking in particular of the question of subcontracting which you have been many to discuss, the question of the articulation between the different phases and a whole series of other themes related to feedback and difficulties encountered in the application of the law during specific Renault procedures in certain companies. This work began with the implementation of the recommendations made by the National Labour Council in its opinion of 27 October 2020. This work will continue in conjunction with the social partners on more substantial changes, which go beyond the centralisation of texts and the improvement of information, but which really affect the heart of the Renault procedure. I am thinking of its necessary evolution as a result of certain failures encountered, of certain shortcomings pointed out by some interlocutors and, more generally, of the current economic crisis situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u8	Thank you, Minister. Before I give the floor again, I am sure that I have understood Mrs Moscufo well about the postponement of questions from your colleague Colebunders. These are questions that are not attached, are they? The attached questions cannot be converted into written questions. We can refer to their written version. So you want to return to the written version and have a reply. That way, you'll have a concert for the rest of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u9	Madam President, I would like to refer to the text of my questions as tabled. I will not read my question over and over again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You mentioned a number of interesting elements, but I do get the impression that you are turning around the heart of the discussion: what will we do in the context of evaluation and adaptation? Of course, it is important that, in the context of the NAR's advice, there is a better flow of information, certainly also to the Regions, responsible for activation. The faster one can activate, the better. We also know, of course, that the Renault Act does not always encourage rapid activation and that many groups are waiting to leave until a social plan is on the table. That seems to me to be one of the gaps and pain points. It is also a good thing that conditions are linked to the measures you have put in place for the travel sector and others, especially in terms of redundancies. The examples of Ryanair and IBM cited by you once again show the role of the social mediator for different parties when procedures are not followed. This also applies to subcontractors, subcontracting and information transmission. There's a lot on the table today. These gaps will continue to appear in files and it is therefore time to take legal initiatives. We have already done so and this may be an inspiration for you. We hope to be able to conduct the discussion more thoroughly and in greater detail in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u11	Minister, thank you for the answers you have given, in any case in part. My question was not only about the Renault law, but also about Ryanair's problem. Indeed, this is not the first time I have asked you about this. I asked you, minister, to give all the attention to this procedure of dismissal, because all the signals were red. All signals. I told you at the time and you shared that perception. We already had the impression that these threats of dismissal, with a number of workers varying in time, were in fact a way of exerting pressure to achieve these ends, and were potentially an instrumentalisation of the Renault procedure. Today, we see that the cluster of clues reinforces this conviction. All the more so with today's news. Ryanair has already lowered salaries, as this is part of the Memorandum of Understanding, but has not yet fulfilled its obligations. This is truly scandalous, and I believe that you must have a much stronger reaction, Minister. We know that the times are going to be difficult for businesses in the coming months, the next few years. You have to be firm. What message do you give today regarding how a Renault procedure can be used? Is this something that will be able to be used to pressure in order to lower wages as was the case at Ryanair? Or, then, is it really a procedure that allows to maintain a balance between the various actors, and to allow a balanced balance of forces between the workers and the employer who wishes to lay off? You talked about the support measures that are sometimes conditioned. You have also spoken of your willingness to do so effectively and to ensure that this procedure is not instrumentalized. That's why it seemed to me that the link with the evaluation was obvious. I do not think we will reach my question No 55015923C on the specific situation of Ryanair. I will therefore read your answer carefully. But in any case, the signals that were red, a few months ago, are maintained and reinforced with dark red. I ask you for a firm response, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that, through the Renault Act, Belgium has adopted a series of strict rules on collective redundancies. However, in the current context of redundancies and restructuring, it must be noted that, in practice, these rules do not sufficiently achieve their objectives, namely the protection of workers and the maintenance of employment. However, I would like to stress your willingness to actively revive the discussion on this issue. As you have pointed out, work has begun, particularly with the implementation of the recommendations of the National Labour Council. It is also important to mention that discussions with the social partners have resumed. In my view, these are important elements in the current context. Knowing your prognosis in this area, I hope that this discussion can be held in this committee soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u13	Minister, I am sure some of us will remember what prompted the Renault Act. The atmosphere among the population was then: this never again. If we look now at the application of the Renault Act, we can see that it could have many names by now. After all, there are still others. After all, we must note that this law does not provide sufficient social protection and does not have sufficient weight against collective redundancies, not even in terms of activation. It is good that you continue to implement the recommendations of the National Labour Council and the social partners and that you enter into consultation with the regions. It is also good that conditions were attached to the support measures. That was an important point at the time, as with all subsequent restructurings. In many cases, it was companies that made a profit and simply wanted to reschedule. So we were allowed to make that link. It is a good thing that the discussion has resumed and that you, together with the social partners, have given a number of landmarks to make the Renault Act more stringent. In this way, it can achieve its objectives better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answers. On behalf of my group, I am sending our support to IBM workers. This company made 955 million dollars and in Belgium, we have increased in ten years from 3,000 to 500 or 800 employees, depending on whether we integrate the new subsidiary or not. You have met the workers and you know the problems they are experiencing with management, which lacks respect for social consultation. A lot of things could be improved. The government would be willing to improve the procedure by obliging compliance with a social plan. It's so important that the FEB shouted at the disaster. We are drawing attention to the fact that in every restructuring plan we find ourselves immediately discussing a social plan. Practice shows that when workers have the balance of power, it is possible to achieve victories. We want to highlight a company in Saint-Trond, where there has been a restructuring plan and where, after a long fight, we have managed to win: 90% of the workers who should have been laid off have been kept in the factory and those who remain voluntarily agreed to a reduction in working time with maintenance of salary up to 85%. Therefore, a socialist minister should not only give the vision that restructuring will immediately lead to a social plan. We wanted to draw your attention to this for the next time and go back to the bill to ban dismissals when there is enough money.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u15	Madam President, Mrs Muylle is right. After Dancing Dimi, the dart player, we now have Dancing Pierre-Yves, who dances around the hot stuff while again talking about an important file. In your answer you touch a number of things, but there is not much more to it than that, Minister. This is not a good evolution. I have asked a number of specific questions and you have answered that you will consult the social partners, but you have not answered my question specifically how you will hear them with regard to the opinions they issued in 2019 and 2020. I have also asked you very specifically whether raising the age for SWT is worth considering for you or not. It is not that for us, but I think that in the event of restructuring, we must do everything we can to enable, among other things, a good flow of information to enable rapid activation. Your answer today leaves me a little hungry. Apparently I am not alone in this, because the replies of a number of members of the majority here to your answer are not of the cat either. I understand, of course, that you do not have to worry about that, because we all know who is doing the trick in this government. That is clear, so you are comfortable in that area, but I would like to call on you to show a little more decisiveness and not to pass the hot potato on to the social partners every time. They have already returned a lot of well-cooked potatoes, but nothing has happened in the policy area. I'd like some more action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u16	Madam President, Minister, the various problems have been raised several times today, both by you and by the questioners, but the solutions have been raised a little less often. The link with the regions which represent an important component, the activation of the unemployed, is more than necessary. There is also a need for consultation with employees and employers, as employers also raise some concerns in the current legislation. Much more important than asking these questions today is what we will actually do in the near future with regard to the reform of this law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u17	Mr Minister, you say you want to forward several proposals to the social partners. I feel like I'm five years behind, in 2016, just after Caterpillar's closure. At that time, there were proposals quite similar to those that you put forward and that had been made by Kris Peeters. Many discussions had taken place in the Group of Ten and no consensus had emerged. Today, I have the impression that the same modalities and the same story are happening again. At some point, we'll have to set a timetable and that's probably the first message I want to send you. Today, it is true, the priority is the discussion of an IPA. It seems to me that after the AIP, we must put the Renault law at the heart of the negotiations, which means that we must not just let the social partners discuss with each other, otherwise we will start again as we did five years ago. Clearly, it seems to me that you have to wet your jersey to start tripartites. I want to convey a second message: between Ryanair's files and IBM, there is a common point of concern, since the employers have each time unilaterally ended the first phase of the Renault law. This is a real concern, because we have the impression that we wake up afterwards to see that there has been no dialogue, that the procedure has not been followed correctly or even respected. All of a sudden, we realize that we didn't call on a social conciliator. If we do not want to lose this first capital phase, we must find a mechanism to "instituate" the place of the social conciliator, that it is not limited to the role of the notary. The role of the social conciliator is to ensure that things are done correctly, in accordance with the Renault law but also with respect for the stakeholders in dialogue and consultation. Because every time we arrive too late and we lose important steps. Regrettably, these dossiers are living on other similar points. I do not know at all how IBM will evolve, but what is certain is that it is a little late for the social conciliator, who should have arrived before the first phase of the Renault law. I hope that we will be able to restore a dialogue because this is obviously a major issue for every person involved in IBM.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u18	Mr Colebunders, would you like to react to the debate? [[No]] Minister, I think we can close this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u19	Two of my three questions have become obsolete due to current events, so I am concentrating on my third question. It concerns the application of collective agreement No. 149, on which I have received a number of specific questions from the field of work. This collective agreement may form the basis of the final framework for teleworking. A first question relates to Article 7, which requires employers and employees to agree on the reimbursement of costs or the provision of resources to work at home. It is not clear whether there is a minimum condition here: the agreement could therefore also mean that there is no intervention. A second question concerns Article 12 which informs teleworkers about the policy on well-being at work, such as prevention measures, changes in the workplace, use of screens, IT support. This provision then overlaps with obligations under the Welfare Act. Hence my questions. As far as Article 7 is concerned, this could be done on the basis of collective agreement No. 149 is agreed by both parties that there is no cost compensation for telework, and that the teleworker himself must bear all the costs? This would be contrary to collective agreement No. 85. As far as Article 12 is concerned, I would have liked to have heard from you or collective agreement No. 149 is a supplement or a derogation to the Welfare Act: in other words, concludes collective agreement No. 149 the above-mentioned points of the Welfare Act?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u20	Madam President, Minister, I just want to ask a question about the workers' return day. I am pleased that teleworking is being looked at and that modalities are being laid down. Nevertheless, I have a few specific questions about the initiative of the app. Firstly, my question was important because the VBO was surprised by the action. I do not understand why this was not discussed. Or was it discussed? Secondly, is the tool associated with a cost or a duration for development? Part of it has already been launched. For me as an entrepreneur-politician, the question is whether it is worth the coal, as we say in West Flanders. Will the app be on time? Very important is also the question of whether the tool is useful enough. I hear some entrepreneurs say they're not into it. There are two figures to be entered and nothing can be done. Who developed the tool? Is that what happened in self-management by the FOD? As the entrepreneur sees little use in it, I have always said that telework is a matter of trust. Should we not therefore continue to rely on the confidence that the employee and employer must build together? Do we need an app to check that trust, when it is essential for both parties, i.e. for both employees and employers, that telework can be efficient and effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u21	Mr Colebunders referred to his questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u22	Minister, following the consultation committee on Wednesday, March 24, you announced on Twitter that a simple tool would be made available to companies to enable them to indicate how many employees work within them, and how many of them occupy a position for which telework is impossible. The aim of this tool is to facilitate the control of telework.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u23	I can reassure Mr Verhelst about the check on the return day. There is no need to worry about that. I asked Minister Verlinden about this a few weeks ago, who replied that there is actually no basis on which that is controlled, because it is not up to the government to decide who may or should not work telework. Employers and employees are free to fill that out themselves. I have already made the point in plenary that it is quite useless to link a whole registration to that. The mandatory telework imposed by the government in the context of the corona approach also represented a step in the unknown for many employers and employees. We had to act quickly, often without much framework and without a clear framework for agreements. Telewerk, of course, also offers opportunities, regardless of the corona approach, but there are also some risks regarding well-being at work and a good framework for doing that work in a healthy way. Not everyone has enough space at home, the right furniture and so on to perform a healthy telework, so a certain part of the work at home. My questions are also forward-looking in this respect. How do you want to ensure that telework can be implemented in a safe and healthy way? Where are you on that exercise? In what way does collective agreement No. 149 to the Law of 4 August 1996 on the welfare of workers in the performance of their work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u24	Minister, I would quickly like to touch on a few points with you. First, I will address the acute situation of pandemic management. There is an extension of the telework obligation until 31 May, decided on 14 April. However, in the field, this seems to be less and less respected, according to the mobility indicators. In this regard, what data could you provide us with? What about respect for the rules? What about the new decision that each company had to report the number of employees for whom home work is not possible? The aim was to make controls more effective. Where are we? Let us acknowledge that, probably, a number of workers find telework to be good, but that telework can also be problematic in terms of mental well-being. Studies have shown this, especially that of Frédéric Ancion showing exhaustion, loneliness, difficulties for the integration of new workers. Here is the third part: how can the advantages of teleworking be combined by avoiding its pitfalls, weaknesses and perverse effects, within a regulatory structural framework? Can you give us an update? What's your status?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u25	I did not receive any requests from a group that did not ask questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u26	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your various questions. The telework at home that we are talking about in the current context is largely regulated, on the one hand, by the provisions on home work of the Labour Contract Act and by the provisions of the Workers' Welfare Act; on the other hand, by CTC No. 85 of the National Labour Council of 2005 and by the new CTC No. 149 of the CNT on telework in the context of the co-vid crisis, whose compliance is monitored by the labour inspectorate. In addition, the law on workable and manoeuvrable work also provides for occasional telework. Telework is thus enshrined in labour law, although a number of questions may arise about the adaptation and interpretation of the current rules. The worker who works telework at home is also protected by the mandatory provisions of labour law and well-being at work, which must be respected. Mrs Muylle, Mrs Samyn, Mrs Fonck and Mr Anseuw, I can therefore confirm that the law on the welfare of workers of 4 August 1996 and the Codex on well-being at work also apply to teleworkers. The employer therefore remains responsible for the well-being of the workers during their work, regardless of whether they carry out that work on the work floor or by telework. The collective agreement cannot deviate from that legal framework, but can complement it. The employer therefore remains responsible for analysing the psychosocial, ergonomic and other risks associated with telework. The employer is also obliged to inform his employees and to take appropriate preventive measures. The new collective agreement of the CNT deals in particular with the situation of mandatory or highly recommended telework due to the crisis of the coronavirus, but in doing so it relies to a large extent on the existing legal framework. In the case of undertakings which have set up a structural telework system, collective agreement No 85 provides that the employer is responsible for the supply, installation and maintenance of the equipment necessary for telework. In addition, the employer reimburses or pays for connection and communication costs related to telework. If the teleworker uses its own equipment, the employer incurs the costs of installing, operating and maintaining computer programs and amortizing the equipment. In the case of undertakings which had not yet developed telework arrangements, collective agreement No. 149 that during the period of recommended or compulsory telework, due to the corona crisis for each teleworker, agreements should be made on the reimbursement of costs for the installation and use of relevant computer programs and, in the case of the use of the teleworker's own equipment, also of the additional connection costs. Those agreements may be clarified in a collective agreement at the level of the undertaking, by a modification of the employment rules or by individual agreements or telework policies notified. The latter must be drawn up with due regard for the social dialogue within the undertaking or, in the absence of competent consultative bodies, be drawn up with the workers in order to take due account of the special conditions applicable to the undertaking. These agreements take into account the more comprehensive framework of all costs or compensation paid by the employer to teleworkers during the health crisis caused by coronavirus. Reimbursement of telework costs is therefore agreed between the employer and the teleworker in accordance with the rules of social consultation within the undertaking. These repayment arrangements may vary, as they depend on the actual situation within companies. In this context, employers may make use of a number of lump-sum reimbursements exempt from social security contributions and taxes. In my view, the introduction of a uniform reimbursement scheme would interfere with social dialogue both at inter-professional and company level and with agreements that would have already been concluded between workers in this context. TNC Opinion 2195 accompanying CTC 149 explicitly states that an in-depth assessment of existing telework and disconnection regulations is planned. The issue of disconnection will therefore be addressed in this evaluation. It should be noted that the current CTC is limited in duration and will expire no later than 31 December 2021. It is expected that the necessary assessments will be completed by that date. In the case of accidents at work, any accident occurring to a worker in the course and by virtue of the performance of the contract of employment and resulting in injury shall be regarded as an accident at work. Article 7 of the Workers' Compensation Act also covers accidents to regular and occasional teleworkers. In the above-mentioned notice, the NTC requests that the Workers' Compensation Management Committee confirm once again that all accidents in telework, whether mandatory or recommended, are also covered with certainty by the Workers' Compensation Act. Fédris is the responsibility of the Minister of Social Affairs. We do not have figures on the use of telework or telework fees. These agreements are concluded at company level or between employers and employees. Employers are not obliged to report such agreements. The circular 2020/C/100 of 14 July 2020 on employers' own costs for telework deals with the possibility for an employer to award, under certain conditions, a flat-rate telework fee to its employees. This can be done for workers who work telework on a regular and structural basis, at least five working days a month, in order to cover the costs incurred by these workers and who are borne by employers. This allowance of a maximum amount of EUR 129.48 per month constitutes, in the case of beneficiaries, a reimbursement of employer-specific and non-taxable expenses. This circular falls within the competence of the Minister of Finance, to whom you can refer for more information on the conditions for granting the allowance and possibly on the number of workers receiving the allowance. As regards the framework of telework after corona, it seems that many employers and employees will choose to continue using voluntary telework, if possible in conjunction with work at the office, for example for two or three days a week. Indeed, telework also has many advantages, such as autonomy, flexibility, the combination of work and private life and less commuting. Since the current regulatory framework for teleworking is largely based on collective agreements, it goes without saying that the social partners will be involved as far as possible in the development of a new regulatory framework for teleworking. In this way, we can work together to find the most balanced and effective solutions. The social partners also adopted in NAR Opinion No. 2195 indicated their intention to carry out a thorough review of existing regulations on structural and occasional telework and deconnection at a later stage, as explicitly requested by the previous and current Minister of Work. Mrs Vanrobaeys, Mrs Moscufo, Mrs Fonck, on the SIOD site you can find all the SIOD figures and actions in the area of checks. The inspection services have carried out numerous checks on compliance with the obligation to telework. From December 17, 2020 to April 18, 2021, 21,297 employers, including self-employed workers, have been monitored. Of these, 2,668 employers, including self-employed, were found to be in violation. I can provide you with the complete data that SIRS provided to the National Crisis Centre on April 20th. It indicates that 12.5% are still in violation. Of course, I keep all these tables at your disposal. I will transmit them through the secretariat of the committee. From the beginning of November 2020 until 18 April 2021, 33,115 employers, including self-employed workers, have been monitored for compliance with all co-emptive measures (social distantiation, hand hygiene, etc.).). Of these, 9,376 employers, including self-employed, were in contravention, or 28.3%. These figures also reported the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service to the National Crisis Centre. I can get it to you. The various inspection services will continue to monitor compliance with all preventive measures, including mandatory telework as well as social distancing, hand hygiene and ventilation, both in their individual checks and in joint checks. As you know, the Conciliation Committee has decided to take measures, namely the establishment of an electronic registration system for workers who cannot do telework, the strengthening of controls and the tightening of sanctions. For the electronic registration, the RSZ has placed an instrument on its website. Employers in the private and public sectors must fill out a form there. It is important that this instrument is as simple as possible. The instructions shall be clearly worked out and give sufficient explanation to ensure that the declaration is made correctly. Only two data are requested, i.e. the number of persons employed at the holding per establishment and the number of persons employed there who are not teleworkable. The data must be transmitted once a month. The first declaration concerned the situation on 1 April and had to be lodged on 6 April. This statement concerns the situation on the first working day of the month and is tabled no later than the sixth day of the calendar of the month, as I have just said. This tool first allows the government to finally have statistics on compliance with mandatory telework, then the inspection services to immediately have a clear view of the importance of telework in a company, or even a sector, and to make more targeted checks on companies that clearly exaggerate with face-to-face work. Since the introduction of the telework declaration, employers have therefore been alerted during checks to make the declaration if they have not already done so. For example, the DG supervising the monitoring of the social laws of my administration carried out 491 on-the-spot inspections during which it addressed this issue of the obligation with the employer. The existence of this obligation has been reported to an employer and a warning has been issued. I will also send you the tables showing the number of checks, the number of infringements detected and the follow-up. The RSZ has recently drawn up lists based on the analysis of the telework declarations for the month of April. They will help to carry out targeted checks. At the same time, instructions were drawn up for the inspectors who will carry out the investigations. Today, it is still a little too early to announce the first results of this survey. But as soon as they are available, they will be sent to you. The system is also designed, where the health situation permits, to provide for flexibilities and gradual returns to enterprises. This is an important element for me. It is well known that telework or, in any case, long periods of telework weigh on a part of the population, and especially on those who have been in compulsory telework for months or even more than a year. The intention is therefore to allow a gradual return to business, depending on the evolution of the situation, on the basis of the decisions of the Codeco. With regard to the registration system and the application which has been developed for a limited cost of 55 000 euros, we are considering, following contacts with the various employers' federations, certain flexibilities with regard to registration requirements. I will propose to the Council of Ministers and the Codeco that small and medium-sized enterprises with fewer than five workers and enterprises in sectors where labour registration already exists should be exempted from registration. I am thinking here of the construction, cleaning, meat, hospitals and schools sectors. After a first phase of compulsory registration for all enterprises in the private and public sectors and the various exchanges we have had with the various representative federations, this is the proposal, if not the proposal, to relax, in any case the adjustment of the scheme which will be made taking into account the realities of the different sectors. With regard to administrative sanctions, the SPF Employment is currently working on a text to amend the Social Penal Code to tighten the penalties for telework offences. We also asked the inspection services, in accordance with the Codeco decision, to multiply the various controls. In addition to controls (actions, flash checks, etc.)), awareness-raising measures are also planned to help small and large enterprises to tackle telework, with a focus on health, including mental health, and worker safety. A telework tab has been available since the beginning of March on the Beswic.be website of the Belgian Knowledge Centre on well-being at work to support prevention actors in all aspects of well-being at work (physical health, mental health, safety). It includes recommendations, tools and outreach materials, as well as the opportunity to consult an established webinar to this effect. In order to address psychosocial and other risks related to well-being at work as effectively as possible, we want to enable the social partners to play their role as effectively as possible at interprofessional, sectoral and corporate levels during this legislative period. They know the situation in the workplace best. It is therefore self-evident to me that they should be involved as much as possible in any new regulation on teleworking and that we should work together to find the most effective solutions. As for your questions, Mrs Rohonyi, I have taken note with interest of the opinion of the Conseil des femmes francophones de Belgique. The findings and concerns are known. For example, as you know, according to the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, the combination of work and private life is the main reason for part-time work for 45% of women working part-time, compared with only 28% for men. It is therefore essential to work towards a better reconciliation between private and professional life. In this respect, I have instructed my administration to focus in particular on the transposition of the work-life balance directive. As you know, this directive is also under discussion within the NTC and aims to achieve greater equality between men and women in the labour market by enabling workers with family responsibilities to reconcile work and private life more easily. In order to achieve this objective, the Directive sets European minimums for birth leave, parental leave, caregiver's leave and imperative leave. What is especially new for Belgium is that the directive also recognizes the right of workers to request flexible work measures. "flexible working measures" means, in particular, remote working, including teleworking. This right to request flexible measures of work must be accompanied by protective measures in order to guarantee the exercise of these rights by the worker. Of course, for telework to be a tool for good reconciliation, it is essential to combine it with measures to strengthen well-being at work for all forms of work, including telework. Similarly, as the CTC No. 149 states with regard to recommended or mandatory telework, special attention should be paid to the most exposed persons who, because of their personal, family and/or housing situation, face additional pressures during telework. Finally, with regard to the test strategy in companies, a clear framework has already been drawn up for this purpose after consultation with the social partners in the Higher Council for Prevention and Protection at Work. This framework provides, among other things, that the occupational doctor may send a test or test himself in workers whom he considers to be high-risk contacts in the workplace. In addition, the occupational physician may perform rapid tests to test low-risk contacts as part of cluster management or under specific circumstances where repetitive tests may be appropriate, for example in areas and regions where increased spread of the virus has been observed. Finally, the SPF Emploi website also contains guidelines on self-tests and self-collections by workers. As is the case with the general population, workers must always give their consent to be tested. This must be given freely. In addition, it applies the processing of health data, so that the results of the tests can only be treated by the occupational doctor and can in no way be communicated to the employer. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the various elements of the answer to these many questions, which were particularly technical. I hope I have been complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u27	Thank you, Minister. Indeed, you were very thorough and we made sure not to interrupt you, since the questions were very technical and that answering them took time. Mrs Muylle has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive reply. I have the impression that my two technical questions on collective agreement No. 149 has been answered. I will read everything again at ease, but I thank you for the very comprehensive approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u29	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u30	We can no longer hear Mrs Verhelst, but if we see her coming back, I will give her the floor again, the time for replying.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive reply. I myself have also seen a very interesting report by the FPS Mobility which shows that half of the workers are now working at home. That happened last year, by corona, head over heels. Previously, we were not the worst pupil of the European class, but also not the best, especially compared to northern European countries. There was not every company a policy and the necessary confidence to implement it. It is important to increase the number of days compared to the past, which is logical because it is now mandatory. I welcome your answers on the application of the welfare law, which seems very important to me. This weekend, I read in the newspapers that an investigation by Acerta indicates that only 1.7 percent of teleworkers receive compensation for this, despite the different arrangements. We have collective agreement No. 85, occasional telework and collective agreement No. 149, but all these schemes focus on fees for electronics: internet connection, computers, etc. Of course, this does not cover all the costs. I understand the situation hit us a year ago, and we couldn't settle it in one-two-three. I hear you say that you will also put the question to the social partners. It is important to thoroughly evaluate the advantages and disadvantages of these three systems, each with its own perspective and objectives, which create some confusion, if we want to continue to use structural telework. We now know how we experienced it after a year of corona. We need a strong structural framework, with a sound remuneration. In addition to a computer there are costs for a good office chair, heating etc. Of course, that will decrease if people stop working from home every day. But such an arrangement can certainly contribute to the motivation. As far as the app is concerned, you have given the figures for the checks and the infringements. I still find the latter quite high, despite all the calls that point to the importance of telework to combat the virus. On the other hand, I am pleased that you have consulted on this and have filed the sharpest points, so that, for example, people in education and in hospitals will not be charged extra to pass on these figures, because there can be teleworking, but it is not about the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u32	Minister, thank you. I'll answer in two steps. First of all, I will address the whole issue of telework itself. All these measures are being taken to combat covid, but we are not in the world of bisoun bears. It is also known that at the level of some employers covid is used to install new forms of work organisation. The return of the land is already clear. You are talking about an evaluation in December, but some feedback is quite alarming with regard to working conditions. Many workers work much more hours per week than if they were in their real workplace. The right to disconnect is very complicated. We also have feedback from ONEM. Some employers put their workers out of work on Fridays, but in fact, they continue to work. As much as we are aware that things have to be done at the telework level because of the pandemic, so much we want to take into account the whole problem of isolation and social relations. We have many returns from people who are on telework while they could go to their workplace in secure situations. It's pretty complex. Then, as we discussed, there are all the people who don't know how to telework You gave the numbers. We are interested in receiving them via the services. In any case, for us, this remains a real problem. You talked about hiring more inspectors a few months ago. Where are you at at this level? Trade unions are demanding a lot about this. We are in favour of doubling their numbers. We believe that the measures remain unimpeded for employers. The role of the CPPTs at work must really be put forward, and its opinions must become binding. The adaptation of workplaces needs to be checked more closely. I don't know if you know. In the large distribution, how were the refectories of cashiers and restockers reorganized? I have field returns indicating that this is not really ideal at the health level. There is a need for much more stringent procedures. According to some returns, when a worker has the co-vid, the employer does not put things in place to test the rest of the co-workers, isolate them, etc. All this is also related to the quarantine problem. When people have to quarantine, because they don't get 100% of their salary, it creates a problem. This must be seen in the entirety. You said you were going to take this seriously. For us, we really need to go much further than the measures you have taken. Otherwise, it should not be surprising that a part of the population no longer understands the health measures of the private sphere as we continue to be less strict in the workplace.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u33	Mrs Moscufo, I invite you to pay attention to your speaking time, even if I know it is complicated, given the complexity. This will allow us to go further in the following debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u34	Madam President, Minister, I will be more critical. In fact, there is no uniform system for the reimbursement of homeworkers. You transfer that responsibility to the employer or you actually rely on the good negotiating capacity of the employee, who then has to beg his or her boss for compensation or contribution. Unfortunately, we have to find out again that the social dialogue you have so strongly promoted is actually a shame not to have to pursue a policy. You use that consultation and the social partners to postpone things for you. You also know that employees' and employers' representatives regularly have opposite views. The fact that you are hiding behind the social partners in this case is actually twice as bad, because you are playing with the health of the workers. You also allow them to operate in part in a legal vacuum. Indeed, you cannot force the social partners to adjust their collective agreements. As you yourself say, this measure will end at the end of this year. You can only hope that the problem will resolve itself once this crisis is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u35	Mrs. Samyn, everything will eventually pass, but I don't think we should wait for that. I expect a little more action, too. Minister, in your reply you referred, among other things, to a new regulatory framework that would be in the making. I was not entirely clear on how far that was going. Is that just in its infancy? Do you have to start with that? It's not entirely clear to me. It is important, however, that this be started now, if that has not yet happened. After all, we must prepare the future today, we must not wait for Godot in the hope that it will happen by itself. Telework offers many opportunities, but at the same time it must be done in a well organized way, with good agreements between employers and employees in terms of safety, in terms of remuneration, in terms of framework in general, also in terms of the number of days and hours per week that can be teleworked within the organisation. There must be good agreements on this, in which the mental health of the workers is extremely important. Many aspects have emerged very strongly in the past year, where this has been a rather marginal phenomenon until before the corona crisis. I think it's important to get to work on that right now. As far as registration is concerned, I can be very brief. In fact, it has always been a misfit, even before it was introduced. You should never have entered it. For a number of sectors, you had provided for exemptions: you have listed a number of them, but in fact it is time for the fundamental question of what the added value of registration is. After all, I hear colleagues saying that it is a good thing that certain sectors such as health care and education should not be extra burdened with registration, but I do not know why any other sector should be burdened with this pointless obligation. Either that registration is a real added value, it is important and necessary, or it is not. But it can't be that there is for one sector and there isn't for the other. It'll look like bullying. Hence my call to stop registering telework and to have greater confidence in employers and employees. You're usually proud of that, but apparently not in this case. I don't understand that very well. So please cancel the mandatory registration of telework. In the meantime, people are wise enough to know how to do it best. All the more so because your colleague, Minister Verlinden, has said in so many words that it is up to the employers and employees themselves to decide who can work to what extent at home or in the workplace. The public authorities therefore do not even have a framework to assess, with the exception of what is recorded itself. Of course, that's occupational therapy. If I tell you what to check on, I'll make it easy for myself. I'd be stupid not to. So what's the point of this registration? It'll be completely pointless. This is evident from the reply given by Minister Verlinden a few weeks ago. Hence my call.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u36	Minister, I will be very brief. You are giving a terribly technical-regulatory response. I feel like you're hiding behind all this. Rather, I expected a political vision with a course, since you have been a minister for a few months. I can tell you that in this matter, the conveyors are waiting. We really didn't get that. Maybe I'll have a little comment. I am always very surprised, and you did it again today: you link telework and disconnection. These are two things that may have a connection between them, but this is not necessarily the case. I think it should also be recalled that the part of disconnection must clearly be able to be addressed, pursued. Let us pay close attention to this, including for people who do not work telework. Not only do they do no telework, but also, at weekends and evenings, they are connected. It's often where we still have the most important mental load. Thank you for paying attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u37	If there are no more comments, we can move on to the following topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u38	Madam President, Minister, you said in plenary that strikes were indicative of a failure. You know my position on this. For my part, I believe that the strike is a positive element that has helped to bring about improvements in work. You have issued an ultimatum to the social partners asking them to reach an agreement by 1 May. Today, however, there is a complete blockage. I don't know if, at the time, you thought that was really possible, but it is always that we find ourselves in a situation with a boss who completely blocks the negotiations. Directors of large companies have seen their remuneration increase by 20 per cent while workers continue to receive peanuts. In this regard, you have a responsibility. Indeed, if employers can afford to be so firm in the negotiations under discussion, it is because you have provided them with the legal framework to tell the social partners that they would not get more than 0.4% of the wage increase. You certainly did not take seriously the national strike of 24 March which you consider a failure, but which, in fact, is a great success. Minister, we are generous people. We drafted a bill in collaboration with our colleague Marc Goblet, whom we are prepared to offer to the government. We hope that you have read it, unlike the president of the Socialist Party, Mr Magnette, who said he supported the strike at 200 per cent. In our view, it is clear that we need to get out of this carcan and that you have an important role to play in this area. You can no longer hide by saying that you respect social consultation and that you will ensure that unions and employers reach an agreement. You're not neutral, minister. You have to take a stand. It is true that, in the light of the facts, you have chosen the management bench, which we deeply regret. But you can still go back. As part of our bill, we have asked for various opinions, including yours, which we have not yet received, but which is of great interest to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u39	Minister, the situation today is what it is. Last night, the board of the ABVV said that the water is too deep. This morning, the board of the ACV also said that it drew a final line under the negotiations and concluded that the consultation was over. The premium that one wants to negotiate widely at sector level would be unnegotiable. The government has followed a two-step procedure. I saw the agreement reached last week on the welfare envelope as positive and hoped that we would continue on the same momentum until 1 May. Normally, a new meeting of the Group of Ten within the NAR is scheduled tomorrow. Will this meeting continue? You said that the government itself will decide certain matters if no agreement is reached, for example on the margin of 0.4% for sectors in difficulty. In an initial response, it is said that, after 1 May, negotiations will continue on runways, end-of-life arrangements and minimum wages. I have the impression that we want to leave the difficult decisions to the government, then we have not had to do it ourselves and that we want to negotiate the rest from next Monday. Will you call on the social partners to use the remaining days before 1 May to return to the table? What is your plan of action for the next few days? If there is no agreement on 1 May, what will the government do? After all, that agreement was made for the welfare envelope and I assume that you also made it for the Ipa.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u40	Minister, in previous or non-successful ipa negotiations, most of the work was in the direction of an overall agreement. The welfare envelope was used to adapt a number of social benefits while at the same time a framework agreement was concluded on wages and working conditions. Then negotiations began in the sectors and companies to further develop this framework agreement. This link between the welfare envelope and the Ipa was intended to ensure that no new benefit falls would arise. We have taken note of the agreement on the welfare envelope without an agreement on the Ipa. Indeed, we see that, for example, the mechanism of degressivity of unemployment benefits is being undermined by the decline in unemployment benefits as a result of longer periods of unemployment, which is of an activating nature, as a result of substantial increases in unemployment benefits. They rise even more strongly than, for example, sickness benefits, which in itself is worth a debate. It was a demand of employers to maintain that link between the welfare envelope and the Ipa, which I think is sensible from the point of view of not generating new benefit traps. That clutch is released and the result is an accident waiting to happen. After all, as I have been saying for months, the trade unions know themselves with this government and with you as Minister for Employment. Until today, that time and again is confirmed in the facts. The way in which people have worked over the past few days, in particular the ADVV, by almost breaking words at the table with the social partners, is not the right way to deal with each other and to conclude good agreements in the future. Minister, I would like to know whether it is true that, in addition to the agreement on the distribution of wealth, there was an informal agreement on the contours of the Ipa. Or was that not the case at all? You are well placed to clarify that. What will you do for the next few hours and days? After all, social peace is extremely important in these difficult times and those ahead of us. Will you try to get the partners around the table? In what way will you do that? It is time for you to take action and commit yourself to reaching an agreement. What will you do if no agreement is reached and this is on the government table? What will be the main thrust of the government's decision? I cannot imagine that this has not yet been discussed within the government. So I would like to hear from you what the main lines will be once this is finally on the government table and the government itself has to decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u41	Madam Chair, Minister, I'm going to update things a little bit. Yesterday we witnessed the public announcement of the failure of the interprofessional agreement. Is it a moment of tension before landing or trying to land, or is it a real failure? You must of course be able to answer us about this. Secondly, I would like to say that the statements of certain parties of the majority, including the PS, did not, in my view, fix anything. The statements of the type "Bibisse Costaud with Banded Muscles" did not put the facilitating framework, especially when this party includes the Minister of Employment. Thirdly, where are we going now? Frankly, in the current context, it is even more important to have an agreement to ensure the greatest possible social peace and to have a framework of serenity for both employers and workers. I believe the government's responsibility is full and complete. The solution is to move towards a tripartite negotiation in order to try to reach an agreement, even if the package of negotiations is to be expanded. I hope that's what you're going to tell us right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have already largely outlined what has happened or has not happened in the past few weeks in the social dialogue. It was said that an agreement was reached on 19 April on the welfare envelope. The cautious optimism about this is now gone. It has just become known that the trade unions have stopped the wage negotiations. The report by the Central Council for Industry on the law of 1996 on competitiveness clearly states that there is no more than 0.4% net wage growth, i.e. on top of the index, in order not to lose additional ground in relation to our neighbouring countries. In the post-corona crisis period, we will have to brace ourselves so that the economic damage, which is already great and will only grow, does not increase. We must also ensure that we do not resort to solutions that have been shown to be very expensive in the past, and we must not put aside people who can still function perfectly in the labour market, such as in the case of early retirement. Is 1 May the date you set for the social partners to reach an agreement? Is that a hard deadline? If there is no agreement by then, will the government withdraw the file completely? That is a great concern to which we would like to have an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the agreement reached between the partners on the welfare envelope is an element of satisfaction. I believe that the scope of this agreement should not be underestimated, not only between the social partners, but especially for all those who will be able to benefit from it. It is a particularly important agreement for more than 1 million people in our country. This is an increase in aid for pensioners, job seekers, the sick and the disabled, workers with an accident at work or an occupational disease, people with a living wage, persons with disabilities who are entitled to an income replacement allowance and those over 65 who are entitled to an income guarantee for the elderly. So it's not nothing. This is an important agreement for the million people concerned with, as I was already able to say in plenary last week, minimum pensions which will increase by EUR 60 per month from 1 July (EUR 720 per year), RIS and the income replacement allowance for disabled people with an increase of EUR 45 per month (EUR 550 per year) and a series of other examples. We are really talking about substantial concrete and significant increases for all the people who benefit from them. I could go back to the ceilings on unemployment calculations or the minimum unemployment benefits as they will increase on the basis of this agreement, in addition to the decisions already taken on the basis of the Government Agreement. A positive agreement on the allocation of the wellness envelope was a first step in a broader process that also involved wage bargaining under the PIA, as well as a series of other important issues for a portion of the population and the minister I am. I am thinking in particular of the increase in the minimum wage with a catch-up path in relation to the median wage or the elements of the end of career, an important issue. Discussions on PIA and other issues such as minimum wage, career or overtime began last week, Tuesday. Several meetings take place throughout the week. A meeting yesterday resulted in a blockage, which the common union front, through the president of the FGTB, said. He's not talking about stopping the negotiations yet. The expression of this afternoon in the head of the CSC and the CVA goes a little further. Since yesterday afternoon, I have had contacts with the Chairman of the Group of Ten to take stock of the situation and, since then, with representatives of each of the two benches and one of them before the beginning of this committee. I will continue to make contacts at the end of this committee, in the next few hours and in the next few days. I think it is important to try everything to reach an agreement. I already hear some talk about other files. We know that social consultation has important meetings, both symbolic and concrete: the distribution of the well-being envelopes the interprofessional agreement, but also a whole series of other topics important and essential for the world of work and the economy of our country. I am looking at things in a broader context, and it is from this point of view that the basic memorandum sent to the social partners was drawn up in cooperation and dialogue with each of the two banks. It seemed to me to be a good basis for starting negotiations. Of course, it didn't fix everything. This is the very essence of social consultation. There must be room for social dialogue. The social partners must be able, on both sides, to find themes and areas for negotiation in order to reach an agreement. I always caress the hope of becoming increasingly tenuous, I must admit, of seeing an agreement come to fruition. In the next few hours and days, I will make all the necessary contacts to see how best to unblock the situation again and to ensure that negotiations are still possible. But it is probably a little too early, given the latest announcements just before the committee, to be able to commit myself to a deadline and content. I am really going to leave the next few hours and days to contacts and to ensure that we can once again find common ground for this important negotiation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u44	Thank you very much, Minister. Given the latest information, I have no doubt that the exercise is a little complicated because you are paying attention to the committee, while knowing that debates outside are continuing. I shall now turn the floor to Mrs Moscufo for the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u45	Minister, I am sincerely convinced that you do not believe in this world of Bisounours. You're not someone who lives above the rules of our system. Anyway, I'm worried about your satisfaction. You put forward the agreement on the wellness envelope. However, you know that the trade union directorates have interrupted the negotiations. If failure there is, it is yours – and you must assume it. If they slammed the door today, it's your responsibility. For my part, I respect their choice. Indeed, they had not received a mandate from their base to negotiate with such an arrogant employer. They were mandated to obtain real salary increases as well as a genuine minimum wage and ensure feasible and appropriate career ends. They have respected the mandate of their base – I want to say: they, unlike you. What is left of your program relative to the left? You continue to ensure that you will do everything you can to restart social bargaining. If you really want to, then you will have to get out of the carcan imposed by this government and lift this standard by 0.4%. You did not answer my question by telling me if you had read our bill. We would like to offer it to you so that you can turn it into a bill. Let's blow this carcan so that the heroes who make this country run get at least what they want, that is to say, worthy lives and a salary that is equally so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u46	Minister, I had intended not to replicate every response, not to repeat it. At this point I do, because I am not angry, but furious! In January I was the first in the hemisphere to talk about the problems with the Ipa. We're five months later now. Every week we have called on you, both in the hemisphere and in the committees, to finally assume your responsibility and not to constantly refer to the social partners. You mentioned at least twenty times every week that the social partners had to deal with negotiations, which had already failed from the outset. You put the knife on the throat! It was clear from the outset that 0.4% would not be accepted. You choose a camp at some point and you do it symbolically on 1 May. It's hard to be more symbolic on Labor Day. A socialist who does that is just a direct blow to the face of all the unions. I'll ask the question again. The decision of the trade unions is well known; the negotiations are blocked, we know that. However, we do not know how to proceed. It is not for us to decide which actions the trade unions should take now, but we need to know what is happening on the floor. My mailbox is gonna explode. The reports of delegates on the work floor are pouring in. They say that last year the healthcare sector received a hand-clap, because it continued to work, and that they were rightly given a raise; however, they received a maximum of 0.4%, even though they were sent to the front, many of their colleagues got sick and their companies made a lot of profits and distributed a lot of dividends, and the managers granted themselves 20 percent of storage. That wage increase for the ordinary employee corresponds to a maximum of two pints per month. Even that doesn't work anymore, because according to the newspaper reports, the two pints on the terrace become more expensive. If wages rose as fast as the price of beer, the unions were happy. Now finally take up your responsibilities, Minister. Adjust the 1996 law. Read our bill and take responsibility. You admit yourself that there are only losers in a strike. I do not know if there will be losers here and if there will be more actions, but I do know one thing: the workers do not accept them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u47	Mr Minister, a reply is not easy after such statements. I understand your situation like no other today. I also understand that you cannot say much more today, all the more so because you have to look at what is still possible over the next few hours and days. I've followed the trial closely. Contrary to previous speakers, the government, which considers social dialogue to be so important and which has also given full scope to social dialogue, has also offered a lot of instruments. The increase of 0.4% is now being discussed all the time, but a great deal has been put on the table, on which an agreement could be reached and where a broader interpretation could also be applied, including for sectors which have done well today and have recorded good business results. Those instruments are still on the table. So, Minister, I really hope that breakthroughs can be achieved in the next few days. You cannot answer that now, but the question remains what happens to the welfare envelope agreement for which the government has to issue KBs. Will you indeed make those decisions? What happens if there is no agreement between the social partners next weekend? What will you impose? Is what you have put on the table in the context of the negotiations, including what you are going to do? Will you also take initiatives on other issues that you have mentioned? You mentioned runways, among other things. Will you leave these issues to additional social dialogue? I realize that you cannot answer these questions today. I do not, however, have the impression that this is our last discussion on the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u48	Mr Minister, first of all, you have begun to talk about a point of light, namely the agreement on prosperity. I don't know if that's a bright spot. Since the link with the Ipa has been abandoned, the welfare envelope scheme is mainly a series of new inactivity traps, which will not benefit anyone in the long term. On the contrary, it is the social partners, not least the trade unions, who cut off the branch on which they sit, which is the branch of social security. So that's anything but good news. That is why I hope that the link, which was released during the social dialogue, will not be released on the government table and will be restored. This is extremely important to avoid inactivity traps. Secondly, we note that the ABVV is blowing up the wage negotiations, which is, of course, the chronicle of an announced death. I called on you months ago to once again show the courage to provide a clear framework within which to speak during the social dialogue. You failed to do so. You've never shown the courage. You're a wise man. What's happening now is not an accident. You have a very great responsibility in this matter as Minister of Labour. If things have worked out as they have done so far, you and the government have a great responsibility in it, in particular a responsibility you have never taken. Today we see in our country that the social struggle is always a struggle against each other, while in many other countries we see that it is a struggle for better working conditions, better wage conditions and better social protection. In this country, social dialogue, as we see it again today, has become too cynical a game. It is very regrettable that you are involved in this, by doing something at some point, but not taking responsibility at many other moments. The question is therefore, unlike Mrs Muylle, who believes that you cannot answer it today, I would like to know whether you will finally take responsibility and what you will do over the next few hours and days in order to reach an agreement. Perhaps you don't care anymore and would prefer to put the file on the government table? I actually hear Mrs De Jonge just now, with her buttocks pinched, hoping that the issue will not be on the government table, and I understand that for the seventh party in the country. Her party supplies the Prime Minister and has the sole task of keeping things together, which means that we have to put a lot of water into wine, until the liberal wine becomes a homeopathic solution. So I understand that Mrs De Jonge and her party are under high pressure. I am particularly concerned about our prosperity, including in the medium and long term. We will not serve them by organising new inactivity traps and/or by promoting our labour market. That is why I call on you, Minister, to make a real commitment at last to allow an agreement between the social partners and to restore the link between the welfare envelope and IPA, if necessary at the government table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u49	Mr Minister, the recent news is, of course, giving you additional concern. In your reply, you have just indicated what this means in absolute terms, but can we also get the absolute amounts on a monthly basis or on an annual basis for all benefits that are increased? You may deliver it in writing if necessary. In percent it doesn't always say much, but in pennies it is quite a sum. I hope you can still get us that. I suppose I should question Minister Clarinval about the part that still needs to be worked out for the self-employed, or do you know more about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u50	If you will allow me, Madam President, I can indeed pass on the allocation of the envelopes which are the subject of an agreement between the social partners. As you know, in particular with regard to pensions, there is a mirror effect between wage-earners and self-employed persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u51	If it was possible to transmit this valuable information for the work of this Committee, please do so. Mrs Fonck has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u52	Minister, the absence of PIA would be a terrible failure, both for the people involved in their jobs and for the employers. I believe that you would bear an extremely heavy responsibility. It is easy to make Matamores statements the day before the strike. I'm talking about your party, minister, I'm not going to mention the authors you love. It is obviously less easy to wet your jersey and force to find the way to an agreement. In fact, you no longer have a choice: either you find an agreement or your responsibility will be so committed that it will be extremely complicated to keep the political course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u53	Minister, I am largely in agreement with Mrs Muylle's reply. We should, however, highlight the fact that an agreement was reached on the welfare envelope. That is a very important step. I am also pleased to hear that there are still bilateral talks with the social partners. It is very important that dialogue is maintained. Mr Anseuw, I have no lessons from you in that regard. As far as liberal wine is concerned, I would remind you that both the Minister and the Prime Minister have underlined this in his replies to oral questions and the Prime Minister are defending the argument that the talks will continue on the basis of the basic paper and the detailed framework. Minister, I also agree with you that the agreement should be concluded around the social partners' table. I hope that the social dialogue will succeed in this. Of course, it is detrimental for trade unions to tell them to step away from the table. But there is always a way back to ensure that an agreement is reached within the framework set out and in accordance with the basic notes. I wish you every success in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u54	Minister, the problem is that the government does not pursue a coherent and coherent policy. Measures taken by one minister contradict the other's plans. Sharing solutions create new problems. Those partial solutions are there because the courage is not there to develop a global vision. Only in the creation of work, the activation of inactive people and higher minimum wages will everyone benefit and not in partial agreements, which let us be honest... can only be seen as a pyrrus victory.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u55	Mrs De Jonge, as far as liberal wine is concerned, I will make a prediction. The compromise that will eventually come out of the bus will be one where on the façade it is true that the 0.4% rule is maintained. The back door will be wide open with all kinds of exceptions that will cut the limit to 0.4% hopelessly. Then it will turn out that this liberal wine is even a tasteless drink.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u56	Minister, do you have any comments to make? I don't think so. This may close the topical and urgent debate and we shall therefore turn to the next debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u57	Madam President, I refer to the question tabled in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, this issue has already been raised in the debate on teleworking and mandatory teleworking. In addition to the measure on intensive monitoring of compliance with mandatory telework, I have also proposed an additional measure to reduce contamination in the workplace, both in the public and private sectors in positions and functions where telework is not possible. This solution is the use of rapid antigenic tests. They are initially offered to companies where the occupational doctor considers that there is an increased risk of contamination on the basis of, inter alia, different studies and expert reports, whether they are academic reports or the Corona police station, increased risk of contamination because telework is not possible or because physical distancing cannot be 100% respected during the performance of the work. It is therefore intimately linked to a particular type of activity or function within a company. It is important to stress that rapid testing is not a panacea. Rapid testing is an additional means that the federal government intends to use to reduce the number of infections in sectors and companies where telework is not possible. The federal government has proposed the Medista tests and it is up to the companies, in collaboration with their occupational doctor and prevention department, to organize the implementation of the rapid tests in the workplace. Employers will pay for occupational medicine and their staff (such as nurses) whose services are tax deductible for employers. This is a voluntary project for both employers and workers. At present, 345,000 rapid tests have been delivered to occupational physicians for use in business, and there is still a stock of 545,000. Given the success of the measure, it was decided to extend the project by one month - until 1 June. When I speak of a project, it is in fact the partnership between the federal government that makes the tests and occupational medicine available free of charge that puts the testing operations into practice in the workplace. Of the tests distributed, 82 per cent were used in private enterprises, 18 per cent in the public sector. The Employment FPS has developed the framework within which these rapid tests are possible. This framework is based on the unanimous opinion of the social partners of 23 March 2021 on the implementation, in companies, of rapid tests in a repetitive manner. The use of rapid testing does not mean that the prevention measures in the generic guide and the sector guide should no longer be respected. A quick test cannot replace the mandatory quarantine. The performance of the test must always be accompanied by monitoring of the preventive measures. To answer more specifically the question from Mr Colebunders and Mrs Thémont, we are in continuous dialogue with the social partners on the safety measures to be taken in companies or to adapt to new situations or new variants. The Supreme Council for Protection and Prevention at Work meets a few times a week and looks at the various problems and challenges since the beginning of the crisis. All the social partners are represented. We are, of course, following the situation closely, and I will not hesitate to present further measures to the Concertation Committee in order to protect workers in the best way possible in the performance of their work, which I did at the previous Concertation Committee on the specific situation of workers and, above all, of workers in the securities sector, where we added the obligation and the possibility, for women workers who find themselves in a situation which they consider to be insufficiently secure in the light of the epidemiological situation and the various health standards and measures, to exercise a right of withdrawal and thus to be able to leave their place of service. This is therefore a complementary element which was not included in my reply but which was adopted by the Consultation Committee on Friday and which is part of the desire to minimise contamination in the workplace and to guarantee the health of workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u59	Minister, it is true that since the beginning of this pandemic, companies have been regularly causing contamination. We also see on the ground that, in the private sphere, this remains very limited. There is, therefore, a real contradiction which also means that there is a lot of criticism of all the measures. Justifiable criticisms, but also criticisms that create a lack of understanding of the virus. We're really not here to let go of all the measures. In any case, you don't answer what's coming from the field. Prevention committees in enterprises do not have a binding role. Similarly, it is difficult to know what follow-up has been given to the controls you ordered. What measures are poorly implemented? What should be done when you detect someone positive on the test? How to organise monitoring of colleagues and on-site work? We have to go a lot further. Our question referred to the carte blanche of certain personalities published in the press, but you remained insensitive to it. There is still the problem of the lack of inspections. In addition, the default workers are themselves overwhelmed. That's why we're still waiting for you to inform us of how many more people you're going to hire.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u60	Mr Minister, if we have learned anything, then the rapid tests will of course be a year late. However, we must not stare blindly at this. Several companies introduce this, and we note that it is well followed up by those companies where the highest level of syndiculity is in place and where the committee for prevention and protection at work carries out its tasks. However, the rapid tests must not be free-conducted. We now notice in particular in chemistry, where the rapid tests are already used, and with them I know companies where staff get ten rapid tests per week, on five working days, the employer thinks that safety at the workplace should no longer be so closely considered. In this respect, we would like to emphasise that controls must still be carried out in companies where people work close to each other and in companies where there is not a strong syndical position. I have a few more questions about the inspection services that are overburdened and have submitted a strike announcement, but the expansion of the CPBW would of course also be something for the trade unions to work with.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm glad I heard what you explained. As the pandemic continues, it seems commendable to me to allow professionals who can resume their activities to do so in good health conditions. As you indicated, prevention and protection at work is a priority. The aim is to protect workers within companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u62	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. In De Zondag there was an article with the new figures for Flanders, prepared together with the federal inspection services. That article headlined "One in three companies does not follow corona measures." I find it hallucinating that after a year it's still the same song. It's kind of like the framework of telework we were talking about earlier. This is not a sign of respect for their own workers, but above all not for the care staff, whose water is still on the lips. Meanwhile, society is begging for perspective, reopening and easing. A lot of people are starting to get it mentalally heavy and I think that we need to step up to ensure that the corona measures are complied with. The federal government provides free rapid tests. I notice that there have already been a little more orders than a few weeks ago. I welcome the extension of this measure. However, I am also picking up signals from trade unionists in companies that these rapid tests are actually being used as a way of avoiding compliance with any measure. Quick tests are an additional means of ensuring safe working conditions. I welcome the fact that the federal government has made it available, but that should not give companies a free pass to let go of everything. In that sense, I urge further checks. We may have arrived at the final stages, which I hope at least, but we must be careful. If the figures really do not fall, you will need to take further measures, as you have done for the household help, which you have given extra protection and an additional tool to ensure safe working conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u63	Minister, we sometimes have to remind ourselves of the obvious. We're going to win against the virus and find some freedom if we deploy our prevention weapons next to the vaccination, 100 percent. Yet that's not what's missing. When we look at the way in which other countries are moving much faster than we are, I think you have a very light approach to an armed arm of a policy of prevention which is nevertheless crucial. When you look at the United Kingdom, Austria, Germany and now even outside the European area, the fastest-moving countries are those that add up their different weapons. What are we doing here? They say, "Ah! No telework" or only if distances are not respected, as if workers did not cross or take the road to work in the morning and evening. The strategy must concern all mobile people today. For all those who are going to become more mobile tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, we hope to have a preventive screening policy. Studies have shown in scientific literature that this significantly reduces the risk of contamination. That is our common strategy. I find that Belgium is still in a scheme where we should be in warrior mode and we are in super light mode. I would therefore like to plead with you that we have a very ambitious policy in this area. In fact, it's in everyone's interest. We're all in the same mess. We'll be all right if we use these weapons 100 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u64	Is anyone still asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u65	Minister, the British Supreme Court recently condemned Uber for the illegal employment of Uber drivers. This has led the company, at least in Britain, to adapt its strategy. The Uber drivers there will now be registered as employees, at the minimum wage, and thus build up a little social rights. In our country too, we have a lot of problems with the way companies operate in the sharing economy, such as Uber and Deliveroo, treating their employees. These companies absorb a large market share of existing service providers by seeking the limits in social law and sometimes exceeding them. In this way they undermine regular employment and, above all, our social system, because those employees of the collaborative economy do not contribute to the system, are not covered by social security and hardly build up rights. Eventually, that account will one day be presented to the State. Apparently, companies in the collaborative economy can only be persuaded to follow the rules after a court decision. Mr Minister, are you aware of this evolution in Great Britain? What steps will you take to solve that problem in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u66	Madam President, Minister, as you know, the British Supreme Court now more than a month ago recognized Uber drivers as an employee rather than a self-entrepreneur. In concrete terms, Uber has decided to grant its 70,000 British drivers a guaranteed minimum wage, paid leave and pension contributions. This minimum wage does not prevent Uber drivers from having higher incomes if they carry out a large number of races. Of course, all of these benefits are related to employee status. In the United Kingdom, there are several statutes that I certainly do not want to take as an example. But it would be important, in our view, for us to be able to evolve in Belgium, where Uber is active, particularly in Brussels, with around 2 000 drivers on its platform, towards recognition of these workers by granting them the status of employee. The Administrative Commission for the Settlement of the Labour Relationship, issued by the SPF Social Security, has already given a positive first opinion on the matter, concluding that the working arrangements of Uber drivers were incompatible with a self-employment relationship. At the level of the General Labour Auditorate in Brussels, no case is currently opened against Uber. On the other hand, a procedure is launched against Deliveroo, the platform of bike delivery providers of cooked dishes. A survey has been under way for many years and we look forward to the conclusions because we are convinced – in any case at the level of the Ecolo-Groen group – that both workers in Uber and those in Deliveroo should not be regarded as self-employed and should be able to benefit from the status of employee. I would therefore like to ask you two simple questions, but very important because this is a long-standing debate. Minister, in accordance with the government agreement which contains the improvement of the status of platform workers, what initiatives do you intend to take to ensure that workers in Uber, Deliveroo, and perhaps others are recognised as employees? Also, do you have any new information about the Deliveroo Labour Auditorate's survey? It is well known that Justice plays an important role in neighbouring countries, notably France and England, to which I referred. There is also the example of California as well as other examples where Justice has clearly condemned these platforms for poor working conditions towards their employees. Is there an update already? Or will a conclusion of the Labour Auditorate's investigation come soon?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on February 19, the British Supreme Court decided that Uber drivers were not self-employed. Following this decision, Uber decided to grant its drivers overseas the status of workers. This decision is, of course, a step forward in terms of worker protection. However, it is not for that reason that Uber drivers from there have obtained the status of workers under contract of employment as defined in Belgium. It should be noted that in Britain two statutes exist side by side. Employee can be compared with the Belgian status of employees bound by a contract of employment. There is also the status of workers. The Uber drivers received this second statute. Workers are not bound by a contract of employment and therefore do not enjoy the rights associated with it. They have a limited number of rights, including the right to a minimum wage. In Belgium, this type of intermediate status does not exist. Workers in platforms such as workers in Uber have the status of salaried or self-employed. Regardless of the sector to which workers belong, the question of whether an employment relationship is carried out on the basis of an employment contract or on the basis of an independent enterprise contract is assessed in Belgium on the basis of the criteria of the Programme Law of 27 December 2006, Title XII, Articles 328 to 343 (Act also known as the Act on the Nature of Labour Relations). On the basis of the criteria of the employment relationship law, it is determined whether a person pursues his professional activity either as a self-employed person or as an employee. Depending on whether he is a self-employed person or an employed person, every worker will benefit from the social protection resulting from it. On the basis of this law, the Administrative Commission for the Settlement of Labour Relations (CRT), which was cited by Mr. Vanden Burre, decided to requalify the employment relationship of two Deliveroo deliverers and one Uber driver. It considered that they should be described as salaried workers. With regard to the inquiry by the Labour Auditorate into Deliveroo delivery agents, as you know, I do not express myself on the cases that are being investigated or are being brought before the competent courts. In the coming months, an in-depth evaluation of the existing criteria of the Labour Relations Act will be carried out and the possibility of refining them in the light of these new forms of employment will be examined. This evaluation will be carried out with the cooperation of the social partners. The discussions are already under way and referral to the social partners took place at the beginning of this month. I therefore asked the National Labour Council on 1 April to deliver an opinion within six months. My colleague, Minister Clarinval, took a similar approach to the Conseil Supérieur des Indépendants et des SMEs, and to the General Management Committee for the Social Status of Self-Employed Workers, in the days that followed. My request for an opinion concerns both legislation on the nature of labour relations and labour via a platform. I asked the social partners of the CNT to update their 2016 opinion in view of the further decline, with particular attention to the working conditions and social protection of persons employed in the platform economy. I also wanted this last point to be discussed first of all with the European recommendation on workers' access to social protection, then with the decisions of the TRC on Deliveroo and Uber, then with the jurisprudential tendencies of our neighbours in France and the Netherlands in particular, and with certain specific and relevant foreign legislation, such as the California AB5 law and the recent Spanish legislative initiative establishing a presumption of salariate for platform work. European initiatives are of various kinds. They deal in particular with the issue of collective bargaining but also with social protection and working conditions. On this last point, Commissioner Schmit has launched a large consultation with the social partners in order to allow the determination of the management to follow, with a view to improving the working conditions of persons employed in the so-called platform economy. We will actively and ambitiously participate in the European process, but we will not wait for its completion to ensure that the working conditions and protection of these workers are improved, which are increasingly encountered on our roads and whose precariousness is of great concern to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Above all, we should not waste too much time studying. It's mostly time to make decisions. In the meantime, everyone knows what's going on in that sector. It's a lot about short jobs. It's kind of the vacation jobs that used to be for a younger audience. In the context of job creation, it is also an element that can play a part, even because it replaces a piece of the regular labour market. In addition, it is feared that the desires of this system will be overstretched by some multinational companies which do not even pay a profit tax in our country. We are by no means opposed to employment if they are given the same rules as other employers and if they are given the same attention in terms of safety at work. You must therefore act as a minister to ensure that the laws applicable to employees are implemented in this sector as well. You mention the September deadline. Hopefully this will be done in the coming months. These platform providers must follow the rules, not more, but certainly not less than the rest. You cannot continue to hide behind the ongoing social dialogue. Trade union representation in these companies is almost non-existent and most of the employees go through very short careers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u69	Minister, thank you for your answers. A few replica elements. On the subject of the study, it is obviously a good thing, which we support. I think since September, it's been a reasonable timing. I hope that by then we will have the conclusions of the work auditorate. I think that's what I asked you about. I didn't ask you to rule on the merits. I hear that's not possible. The main question is when we get the conclusions. This investigation has been ongoing for several years. In terms of international examples, we agree with the British example I mentioned. Social legislation is very different from ours. We're not for a hybrid status. We are clearly in order for these workers, these workers, to be recognized as employees. In California, there was indeed a very good example. Unfortunately, this law was broken by a citizen vote. There are very good examples in Scandinavia, which we have drawn inspiration from at the group level, including collective agreements that have been set up in Sweden and Denmark. We can get back to it. Finally, lastly, I think that, basically, we will have to review - in general, but certainly for platform workers - the law to which you referred on the qualification of self-employed workers. With all the new developments in terms of employment, in terms of a new type of economic model, it will have to be reviewed in order to establish other criteria that are more in line with the work of the 21st century. This must be broader than the platform workers, but they are obviously also concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm following you completely. I would certainly advise you to look at Spain, a country that you yourself mentioned. Many members have examples, but Spain says that the country is the furthest in adapting its most recent labour legislation in terms of the protection of platform workers. So it's worth it. There are indeed many good examples. The European Commission is in full swing and is still conducting its consultation. I hear she would like to come forward with a proposal by the end of 2021. I'm glad you won't wait for that proposal. With the examples on the table, but also with the opinions we know today, it is good that we do not wait and continue. I look forward to your proposals in September 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u71	Minister, this is not the first time we have this debate on platform workers. I have the impression that you always say that you are aware of the situation, but the situation is not evolving very much, when these workers have a lot of work on the ground. Why can't you get to the top speed? In fact, it is necessary to reform the law so that these workers can have an employee status. I suspect that this cannot be done in one night, but it has already happened to us in our history to create a new law in one night. You are really being asked for urgency in relation to this, especially since, on the ground, the power relations at the level of union representation are what they are, but some union leaders are sounding the alarm. I would like to highlight the study carried out by the CSC, United Freelancers, which points out that these workers earn nine euros per hour. Every time you come across one of these people on a bike, tell yourself that these people come to work on a bike for nine euros an hour... If they were considered as employees, they would - not big wages as is the case here - 13.9 euros an hour. So that's what needs to be changed, it's urgent. We've heard everything you've said, but we're not going to settle for it, we're going to keep hitting the nail. Prepare to answer a series of questions at our next session.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u72	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I think it's a good thing you're moving things forward. Once again, the opinion of the social partners, in particular the National Labour Council, has been requested to update their earlier advice on this subject and to re-establish a position, also taking into account the case law and the statutes abroad. There is also the initiative of the European Commission, which you rightly do not want to go on. I also referred to United Freelancers' study of EUR 9 per hour. Last week there were two bike messengers in the newspaper. One worked at Uber and mentioned 4.95 euros per hour. It also depends on the rating one gets on the app, on the amount of orders one can complete or on the distance one has to travel. That is their gross wage, of which they also have to pay their bike, bag and raincoat themselves. The other bike messenger mentioned another amount, although not to add a joy dance, but still. This shows, however, that the argument that those platforms are often used as if it would not be possible to operate in a different way within the rules in force does not cut wood. This latter platform does pay a minimum wage, provides material, pays attention to the mental well-being of the couriers, for example by giving them the opportunity to meet in a hub during their breaks and exchange experiences. That way, they can pull themselves together. So I think it is positive that progress is being made, and I hope for a breakthrough, so that those people who do difficult work can count on safe working conditions and good social protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u73	Madam President, anything happens to anyone who knows how to wait. It is true that the questions usually come after the current debate and from one committee to another they come at the end of the agenda and therefore take time to arrive. I'm glad I can put it down today. Minister, I have asked the previous government several times about the profiling of citizens' energy and water consumption data in the strategy to combat social fraud. I had told your predecessors of all the evil I thought (and my group) of this disproportionate system that violated the fundamental rights of people. I would like to address these issues with you today in order to have some, I hope, new insight into this practice. Indeed, my group believes that this mechanism is ineffective and unrealizable. I would like to ask you for your assessment of this pilot project, which was presented as such in 2017, and which resulted in only a very limited number of recovered files. There are 250 cases closed out of 344 investigations (for a fairly old reference period), but of all the unemployed who received benefits in 2017, this represents a rate of 0.02% of fraud found! The health crisis has had the effect of suspending this project, but I think that today we must look to the future. At the end of the previous Parliament and during the transitional period of current affairs, to the last question I asked Mr. From Backer, he told me that "the evaluation had to be continued and that a new government could review the control strategy." He said that "if a new government is formed, we can also see whether it is worth it or not", which I think says a lot about the minister's feeling after two years of practice on the numerical balance sheet. So what is the numerical balance sheet of this check at the start of this datamining and datamatching of invoices? Could you specify the number of cases investigated, the number of frauds detected, the amounts eventually recovered, and the percentage of frauds detected according to the number of full unemployed persons compensated. In addition, have all water, electricity and gas distributors cooperated fully throughout the country to ensure equal treatment of citizens? What is the evaluation of the cost/result ratio of the device? Are new surveys planned on the basis of this data profiling system? Or is a reorientation of the control strategy planned? With regard to the home visits restored by the programme law of 10 August 2015, at the time, my political group also challenged and fought against this mechanism, which, in our view, would bring us back 20 years. Minister De Backer said that "these house visits remain an exceptional procedure for the government." However, in 2019, more than 1,000 home visits took place, for 400 frauds found. However, there are possible alternatives for this type of control. For all jobseekers, this proportion is quite derisory. Minister, what are your figures for each year of these checks (number of cases investigated, number of people who refused the visit – which is allowed –, number of frauds detected, number of penalties)? Were these controls continued in 2020? What about it? Of course, the covid intervened. What assessment do you make of this scheme on the basis of the available statistics? How do you intend to reform it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u74	Madam President, Mr Delizée, if I may, I will answer your second question first. Until 2015, the law provided for a procedure for home checks of job seekers. The jobseeker had to be summoned to the ONEM offices for hearing. At the end of the hearing, if the ONEM still had doubts, he could, by informing the job seeker, carry out a home visit. As you have rightly indicated, this procedure was abolished by the programme law of 10 August 2015 in order to restore unannounced checks at the home of job seekers. As Minister of Labour, like the ONEM, I must respect the legal framework adopted by Parliament. To answer your specific question, in 2020, 502 home checks were carried out by the ONEM and resulted in 193 findings of infringement, or 38.45%. It should be pointed out that, of course, this figure is not representative, since controls are highly targeted and that, reduced to all job seekers, this represents only a very small number of infringements. The applicant's consent to enter his or her home is requested by the inspector prior to the operation by means of a form. In 70 cases, this agreement was refused. For your best information, however, in order to ensure the health and safety of inspectors and social insurance providers, I have asked ONEM to suspend these home visits during the period of health crisis. Indeed, I believe that no risk should be taken in this regard. For the future, I have also asked that the ONEM be careful that home checks be carried out only when they are absolutely necessary and that after the person has been summoned to be able to explain his or her situation clearly. As for your question about datamining and the datamatching of energy bills, the previous government has in fact put in place a procedure for exchanging energy consumption data in order to combat social fraud. This measure was the subject of a pilot project with the ONEM, as you mentioned. At the end of 2018, ONEM received the latest consumption and address data from public services and distribution system operators through the Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale Bank. The figures you have mentioned are also mine and confirm the ineffectiveness of this mechanism. Since 2018, there have been no new transmissions of consumption data and no new surveys have been started on the basis of such data. I share your feeling about this approach and its effectiveness, both on the principle and on the efficiency of the measure. As things stand, I do not see the need to relaunch such a pilot project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u75	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answers. I'll start my line with the second point, the datamining. I'll take your answer backwards. Finally, the fact that you are making is the one that was drawn by Minister De Backer himself, when he was a little at the origin of this new mechanism. I think he himself noticed that he was inefficient. I think it is now becoming clear that there is no need for further action. We said it was a bazooka to kill a fly. A mountain of checks, of a large number of fellow citizens, in order to achieve a derisory result. I am pleased that logic prevails in this doser and that this system is no longer being revived when it is of no use. It is obviously possible to carry out controls otherwise. That's my second point, about home visits. Thank you for the numbers you give or confirm. Finally, I believe that intrusion into the home must always be an exception, that it must be justified and proportionate to the State's objective in the case, the question of control. Finally, it is really the last resort to use this mechanism. There are, as in the past, other control mechanisms that had some effectiveness. There must be equity among all citizens. I believe that more effective means of control existed before. I think that's what we need to come back to.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u76	Since March 2020, my services have continuously monitored the situation of all potentially socially vulnerable groups in our labour market. So we also know the impact on women. Quarterly labour force indicators show that the unemployment rate of women is still lower than that of men, but that it grew more strongly in the second and third quarters of 2020. The employment rate remained more or less stable. Labour market slack, the potential workforce that could work more but not currently, which was already more important for women than for men before the pandemic, increased more in 2020 for women. It reached 14.4 per cent for women in the third quarter of 2020, compared with 10.6 per cent for men. The Sigedis data show that women lost their jobs more often in the second quarter of 2020, but Satbel's data show that they remain out of work for less time than men. Throughout the pandemic, women also experienced less temporary unemployment than men and less frequent full-time unemployment. Overall, temporary unemployment absorbs immediate and greater consequences for full-time workers. It should be noted that the situation is different for part-time workers. The situation of women was therefore multifaceted and the main problems seemed to be concentrated in the groups working in the most affected sectors, among the low-skilled and low-wage groups, regardless of their gender. In short, the available data suggest that the pre-existing weaknesses and challenges in our labour market are reinforced by the crisis of covid-19. Structural problems (insufficiency and inefficiency of certain allowances, pitfalls of financial and non-financial inactivity, unbalanced distribution of family responsibilities) must be addressed and recovery policies must go hand in hand with a strategy to combat the growing inequalities and vulnerabilities of our society. However, as long as the pandemic situation does not allow children to attend school or day care on a full-time basis, we also need measures such as coronary parental leave. It is a way of reconciling work and privacy and thus staying at work. It is, of course, indicative of the unequal distribution of family tasks that women in particular use. But it would be worse if they had to stop working completely. For more details on the most affected groups and sectors, I refer you to the bimonthly follow-up of the Social Impact Corona Working Group, in which my services participate and which can be consulted on the Social Security FPS website.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u77	Minister, thank you for your answers and the figures. It can be seen that the pandemic has exacerbated gender inequalities in almost every area of life. In terms of labour market participation, the first wave had a greater impact on women than on men. They are in more precarious jobs, with part-time jobs, less paid jobs affected by the loss of wages of 30%, which is not covered by temporary unemployment benefits. Women are also overrepresented in sectors that are very vulnerable to the crisis. Many actors fear that it will take years to overcome the setbacks caused by the pandemic towards gender equality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u78	Questions No 55014631C by Mrs Nadia Moscufo, No 55014961C by Mr Gaby Colebunders and No 55015064C by Mrs Greet Daems are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u79	Madam President, Minister, in February the Carrefour employees discontinued Mestdagh, partly because of the working conditions in the shops. After the restructuring of 350 jobs two years ago, workers accumulate overtime and the workload increases. Moreover, employment remains particularly precarious with many temporary contracts, fixed-term contracts and part-time jobs. The workload can also include increasing intimidation and even aggression on shop staff. Meanwhile, there was also an aggression incident in the Colruyt of Saint-Truiden.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, the social conflict that you are talking about in the stores of the Carrefour Market brand, operated by the Mestdagh group, is no stranger to me. The members of my cabinet are in regular contact with the social partners in this case, as in many others. You will have noticed this during the current debate on the Renault law. Indeed, the workers have already been hard hit by a severe restructuring that took place just a few years ago. The current working conditions do not satisfy them. I thus hear the legitimate demands expressing a rejection of the precarisation of contracts, as well as the concern for quality employment – concerns which are obviously dear to me, as a socialist. I was informed that management and staff representatives were back on their way to the negotiating table. I can only invite them to find optimal solutions, which will aim both at ensuring the sustainability of the company, and therefore of employment, and at granting decent working conditions that workers deserve. On the other hand, you are aware that the context of the interprofessional agreement – particularly difficult – is in principle also concerned with working conditions and remuneration. We will see what the next few days will bring. With regard to the case of intimidation and even assault of store staff by incivious customers, I cannot tolerate it and will therefore not remain with my arms crossed. I call on everyone to respect each other. Workers in the distribution sector, especially those working in food shops, have been working since the start of the crisis to continue serving customers in difficult circumstances. The least that can stand up to the customers is respect. I also call on all industry employers to apply and, where appropriate, update the security measures agreed, both at federal level and at sector and company level. Social welfare legislation should also be fully respected, with specific attention to the prevention of psychosocial risks at work. I am also sending a letter to the relevant joint committees. The Welfare Inspection at Work and the Economic Inspection can also be used as part of the applicable obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u81	Minister, if there is anything I have learned in the trade union, it is that restructuring and so on must always ask who is hit hardest. I see that 350 jobs have already been removed at Mestdagh in the past. The experience I have is that the question always arises in what circumstances the people who are allowed to keep their jobs can continue to work. Wage conditions are much worse. It is about flexibility, workload, bullying, the more and more questions these people are asking. It is very painful when we see that such businesses in the retail sector have made large profits in recent months. After all, we had hoped that you, as a socialist minister, who always bounces the ball back to the social partners, would make it clear how far such an employer can go. We have missed that in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u82	Minister, thank you for your answers. Large distribution is characterized by the weakening of the quality of the jobs it offers, as well as by increased paces and constraints of work. In the name of customer service, work flexibility is also increased. It must be noted that many workers say that they lack time to do their job and denounce the chronic shortage of staff. In addition, their balance of power is all the more unfavourable as more and more of them are facing precarious conditions. Even for workers who have an indefinite contract, the wage remains low in terms of hours. There is a generalization of short-term working hours: this phenomenon is, moreover, widespread among women. The end of the month is made all the more difficult. No later than yesterday or even this morning, the press still exposed the stress, the pressure of management, the lack of consideration, the aggressiveness of the customers. As you pointed out, this is all the more intolerable as these workers have always been in the front line throughout the crisis. Few large-scale workers do not complain about these phenomena. Finally, given the precarious conditions of employment in the sector, psychosocial risks are causing damage to an increasing number of employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u83	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed a question of respect, first and foremost of those employers. I mention Carrefour as an example. First there is restructuring, whereby a number of people are thrown out, and then people are recruited with even more precarious contracts. Often people were already at low wages and often part-time, but now they are replaced by flexi-jobs with even more precarious statutes, while those people made sure that food was on our table during the health crisis. There is also intimidation and aggression, with the unfortunate case in the Colruyt affiliate in Saint-Truiden. Those workers feel they are already left to their fate in their remuneration and their status. I find it inconceivable to hear that these people also feel abandoned in the area of aggression. Various arrangements have been made, for example to ensure that a form of security check is carried out at the entrance, but those arrangements have long been abandoned. I therefore welcome the fact that you will re-subscribe to the joint committees and remind employers of their responsibilities. That's the least of it. In an ideal world, customers pay respect, but unfortunately it takes a little more than that. However, I believe that employers have a great responsibility in the psychosocial well-being of staff who fill the shelves or sit at the checkout, and who make sure that food is on our tables during the crisis and beyond.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u84	Ms Samyn, on 31 December 2020, the HVW had 591 employees. This corresponds to 495.4 full-time equivalents. For comparison: on 31 December 2019 the HVW had 521 employees. At that time, 432,3 full-time equivalents were involved. This represents an increase in employment of 14,6% in full-time equivalents. In total, there have been no fewer than 108 new recruitments since the beginning of the crisis. Taking into account the outflow, this gives a net result of 70 new employees. The HVW received an additional budget to adopt 40 crisis contracts in 2020. The recruitment of these staff has taken place. These contracts have been trained and monitored for a period of two months. On its own budget, the HVW also made 29 additional recruitments in 2020. 17 staff were recruited to strengthen central services. A team of 12 contractuals has been hired to handle simple WECH505 employees after a short training on 1 December 2020. The natural outflow due to pension or mobility was also compensated. On 26 February 2021, the Council of Ministers granted an additional EUR 1,5 million for HRW staff appropriations in 2021. This budget is intended, on the one hand, to finance the extension of the reinforcement by the 40 crisis contractuals recruited in 2020 and, on the other hand, to recruit 20 additional contractuals. In 2021, the HVW will also retain the additional employees that were adopted on its own budget. The Royal Decree of 16 September 1991 regulates the fees for the administration costs of payout institutions. Article 1 states that the RVA grants compensation for the administrative costs of unemployment benefits. This remuneration is distributed proportionally among the payout institutions according to the number of cases submitted to the RVA, according to Article 2. A formula is used which takes account of the evolution of the number of cases accepted, according to Article 3. In addition to this amount, compensation of 103 million will be granted to the ACLVB's payout institution. The HRW is granted a supplement to cover the difference between the amount of the fee and the amount budgeted for the Auxiliary Cash, according to Article 4. For the period from March to September 2020, i.e. seven months, the administrative costs actually paid by the RVA amount to EUR 32,288,264. However, account should be taken of the annual budget for 2020, i.e. in 12 months, in order to establish that the administrative costs paid by the RVA, based on its treasury, and listed in the table in Annex, correspond to the total amount of the HRW's revised budget for 2020. The decision of the Council of Ministers of 26 February 2021 to increase HRW staff appropriations by EUR 1,5 million is entirely in line with the provisions of the Royal Decree of 16 September 1991. The allocation of the annual budget shall take account of the budgetary framework applicable to federal public services. In this context, a number of savings have been imposed in recent years. In 2021, it will include savings of 2% on operating costs. However, an annual budget is not a static one, as you know. It may be revised and adapted during the same budgetary year on the basis of the institution's specific needs. This is now the case for the HVW. In order to meet specific needs, there is the possibility, subject to an agreement by the Council of Ministers, of adapting to an approved budget. Consequently, the amount for the HVW may fluctuate on the basis of the adjustments made to the annual budget. I also have an attachment for you. I'll transfer it to the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u85	Thank you, Minister. I think your services sometimes give you small technical reading challenges in oral question-and-answer sessions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u86	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply and for the annex.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u87	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we close our business for today in order to prevent our meeting from going on, because the next item on our agenda contains a large number of questions. Does my proposal agree with you, minister? If you want to continue, I can get replaced.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u88	No, Madam President. It was planned to close our committee meeting at 5.30 p.m., so I had made my arrangements accordingly. I also think that if we start this item on the agenda the time set for the end of our work is likely to be exceeded.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u89	So I'm going to release you, Minister. But before closing the meeting, I would like to know whether some colleagues want to turn their questions into written questions. I would like to point out that in the case of joint questions, the agreement of all the speakers is required.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u90	Madam President, I would like to ask my questions. Transform 55015432C and 55016246C into written questions. I would also like to do that for Question No 5, by Mr Lalor and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u91	Mrs. Leoni must have left us. We will ask him if this is possible for your attached questions 55015649C and 55015893C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u92	Madam President, you may take question No. Have 55016301C converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u93	Madam President, I assume that it has already been noted that my question No. 55014954C may be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u94	It's noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic450x.u96	Thank you. This concludes the session: I thank you and wish you a good day.
