ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u1	Minister, on 15 December the Hungarian Parliament adopted several anti-LGBTQI texts. Incorporating the traditional concept of 'gender' in the Constitution and prohibiting adoption to same-sex couples, Viktor Orban's Hungary once again attacked the rule of law and democracy in the country. The law establishes "education in accordance with the values based on the constitutional identity and Christian culture of the country". The government justifies the need to "protect the child against the possible ideological or biological interferences of the modern Western world". It's still pretty amazing that kind of talk. Since May, it has been legally prohibited to register a change of sex in the civil status of this Central European country, a member of the European Union. Various international organisations regularly accuse the head of government of flouting European values. Minister, has Hungary been condemned for violating Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union? And if so, has the Commission reserved sanctions against Hungary? The Hungarian government announced that it was providing for an appeal against such a Commission decision before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Do you have any information on the existence of such an appeal? Where are we? Are there diplomatic means for dialogue with the authorities of the country on this subject or are they completely closed to any humanist and progressive discourse on this issue? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u2	Mr. Lacroix, thank you for your question. The violation of the rights of LGBTQI people and the acts of discrimination against them are a major concern. The situation in Hungary in this regard is closely monitored by our diplomatic post in Budapest and not only since my office and my services in Brussels are also following the situation closely. Since 2018, following concerns about the rule of law in Hungary, including the law of minorities, Hungary has been the subject of a procedure called 'Article 7' – the risk of infringement of the founding values of the European Union. In this context, the issue of fundamental freedoms is closely monitored by the European Commission and a hearing under this procedure took place in December 2019. Belgium has not failed to support the Commission in its role as guardian of the Treaties. A new hearing on Hungary is planned at the General Affairs Council in June 2021 and we will not fail to reiterate our commitment to respect for the rights and freedoms of European citizens. Furthermore, respect for the rule of law in each Member State is the subject of an in-depth analysis by the Commission in its annual Rule of Law Report, which is due to be published in July. With regard to Hungary's appeal against the Regulation establishing a mechanism for the cross-compliance of the rule of law within the framework of the European budget, it was brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union and, as permitted by the appeal procedure, Belgium will intervene in support of the European institutions in their action in favour of this new instrument alongside similar Member States. In our bilateral channels, we also regularly reiterate the importance of respect for the rule of law, human rights and the fight against discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u3	I thank the minister for the clarity of her remarks. It is therefore well placed – and I had no doubt about it – in the camp of progressives and humanists in the broad sense of the term, as well as the Belgian government. So, thank you for this fight which is only in its early stages, it seems to me, in relation to the drifts that we know in Hungary, and also in Poland. The situation in Poland is also disturbing and disturbing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u4	Mrs Van Bossuyt, you are right to point out the central role of General Council for the Judicial Power, the Consejo General del Poder Judicial. Article 122 of the Spanish Constitution provides that the General Council for the Judicial Power is the administrative body of the judiciary and derives from it important prerogatives, in particular the appointment of top judges, the training of magistrates, the publication of judgments and the inspection of courts and courts. The CGPJ is a mixed body consisting of 12 judges or magistrates, 8 renowned lawyers, and 1 chairman. The Congress of Representatives and the Senate each appoint 6 judges or magistrates and 4 lawyers by a vote requiring a three-fifths majority. However, as you point out, over the last two years it has not been possible to obtain the special majority of three fifths required to appoint the new members of the CGPJ. Negotiations for an agreement are still under way. You also mention the cases of Hungary and Poland. I would remind you that with regard to these two Member States, a procedure is under way under Article 7 of the Treaty of the European Union because the European Commission and the European Parliament considered that their respective executive powers are planning reforms that could jeopardise the fundamental values of the Union. This is not the case at all for Spain. I therefore believe that it is not appropriate to compare this situation. Each Member State of the European Union shall be free to establish the judiciary at its discretion and in accordance with the principles of the rule of law. In this context, it is therefore not for me to comment on the organisation or composition of the judicial system of our partner countries, in Spain or elsewhere, as long as the principles of the rule of law are respected. Like Belgium, Spain is a rule of law which fully respects the rights of its citizens, the separation of powers, and the independence of the judiciary. At the General Affairs Council on 19 April, the country dialogue on the rule of law was constructive in relation to the situation in Germany, Ireland, Greece, Spain and France. Good practices were exchanged and focussed on those five countries. For each country, four main issues were addressed: independence of the judiciary; the fight against corruption; media pluralism, including the problem of violence against journalists; and a point I raised myself after the murder of the Greek journalist Giorgos Karaivaz; institutional balance and public consultation. With regard to your more specific question about Spain, the Council has not discussed specific court cases in Spain or elsewhere. That wasn't the purpose of the discussion. The annual dialogue on the rule of law aims to exchange views and good practices on common challenges and to encourage certain reforms. I would find it rather ironic if a dialogue between ministers, in particular on the independence of the judiciary, were to be held on judicial matters which fall within the jurisdiction of the courts, not within our competence. Finally, you mention again the cases of Hungary and Poland. I have already replied to this question within the meaning of Article 7 of the Treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u5	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I am sure that you are better at speaking in Spanish than I could. As regards the judiciary and its establishment, you say that the principles of the rule of law are respected. However, the GRECO, the Council of Europe's anti-corruption group, has already issued an alarm years ago about the politicised general council responsible for the appointment of those judges. I therefore believe that it can be argued that different bodies are asking whether the principles of the rule of law are being respected. Four topics were discussed on the dialogue on the rule of law. I also welcome the fact that the freedom of expression of journalists has been put forward on your initiative. You say that views and good practice were exchanged. In a debate on the rule of law and the exchange of good practice, I think it is appropriate to point out to Spain that democratically elected politicians are in prison. This is completely contrary to the principle of the rule of law. The purpose of this consultation was to evaluate the principle of the rule of law in those countries, including Spain. You are now saying that you would find it a little strange to give a ruling on judgments of the judiciary, because of the separation of powers. I fully agree with the latter. I am also a lawyer, so for me the principle of the separation of powers is also very important. However, this is more important than that. This is a violation of the principle of the rule of law in a Member State of the European Union, namely Spain. That is where the government seems to think it is necessary to capture democratically elected politicians. I find the silence of the European Union, which is known as an organisation which has the principle of the rule of law very high on the agenda, very distressing. It is vengeful that Spain has never been fooled. People look away. We are talking about an internal situation, which is also very strange, because this goes beyond that. The Prime Minister has already said this with regard to Poland and Hungary. He says that the things that happen there, for example with regard to the organisation of the judiciary, transcend the internal ones. However, when it comes to Spain, where democratically elected politicians are imprisoned, it is apparently an internal situation, it is not seen as contrary to the rule of law. I think that is inappropriate and I think that Belgium should really take the lead here in condemning this practice and putting an end to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u6	Minister, since my last question in January, it seems that in agreement with the children of Lumumba, a task force has been created around President Tshisekedi to coordinate the tributes, monuments and ceremonies around the repatriation of Patrice Lumumba's remains. The "last trip" should be preceded by a solemn ceremony in Brussels, which should be attended by the federal prosecutor and where the Congolese diaspora would be strongly represented. A ceremony, around the date of 30 June, should also be held in Kinshasa. An official invitation to His Majesty King Philip would have been addressed through the government. Minister, can you confirm this information? What is the status of preparations for this tribute to Brussels? Will the members of the Congo Commission be associated? Who will represent Belgium at this ceremony? Will the federated entities and Parliament be associated? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u7	Mr Lacroix, from the perspective of the Belgian colonial past, the question of the remains of Patrice Lumumba does indeed have a particular symbolic and emotional dimension. I recall that the special parliamentary committee established in 2001 that "some members of the Belgian government and other Belgian actors bear moral responsibility in the circumstances that led to the death of Lumumba". In the meantime, the then Minister of Foreign Affairs, Louis Michel, had apologized on behalf of the Belgian government to the Lumumba family and the Congolese people. The judicial investigation into the death of Patrice Lumumba is under way at the level of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. In this context, a tooth of the former Congolese Prime Minister was found during a search and was seized. The tooth has since been kept in the courthouse in Brussels. Last year, Patrice Lumumba's family requested the return of the remains by sending an open letter to His Majesty the King and by filing an application with the Brussels Court of First Instance. This request was promptly approved by the investigating judge, which allows for restitution to the family. This restitution will soon have to be organised in Belgium. Belgium, the Lumumba family and the Congolese authorities are in contact to determine the exact date and modalities of the ceremony. Belgium wishes to facilitate restitution in serenity and dignity. With regard to the possible tributes and modalities, President Tshisekedi made a public statement on this subject. They are the responsibility of the Congolese authorities for what is happening on their territory. Oral exchanges are taking place between the Congolese authorities and the Belgian authorities regarding the celebration of the 61st anniversary of the independence of the Democratic Republic of the Congo in Kinshasa. Written invitations have not yet been received by Belgium and, if the Congolese authorities were to invite Belgium, the modalities of participation should then be determined, in particular according to the health situation. As you can see, work is progressing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u8	Madam Minister, thank you for providing us with an update on this issue. I remember from your speech the words "emotion", "dignity", "truth" and "serenity". It is indeed four capital terms that must lead us to ensure that this process of repatriation of Patrice Lumumba's remains is the beginning or in any case one of the steps towards a profound reconciliation between the Congolese people, the Belgian people and the institutions of these two countries, which obviously hold us deeply at heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Firstly, the Governing Board of the Conference on the Future of Europe, which prepares the conference, is composed of representatives of the European Parliament, the European Commission and the European Council. It shall also include representatives of the European Committee of the Regions, the European Economic and Social Committee and of the COSAC of Conference of Parliamentary Committees for Union Affairs of Parliaments of the European Union as observers. The European Parliament has delegated two men and a woman as members to the board of directors. It has also appointed four men as observers, with which it does not set a good example. I agree with you on that. However, the European Commission is doing better. She sends two women to the Management Board, in particular Mrs Suica and Mrs Jourová, and a man, Mr Sefcovic. For the Board, Belgium will make an effort to improve gender balance, as the Chairman of the Management Committee of the Home Affairs Office will participate in the Board of Directors as an observer. The conference should be fully inclusive, including on gender. Gender balance must also be present in all parts of the structure, as mentioned in the Joint Declaration of the Conference on the Future of Europe. That is and remains a priority for Belgium. I believe that whatever language or words we speak, we should vote women in the various bodies. Is that so hard? Oh, come on. Sometimes I wonder what we're doing. In any case, we seek to improve, even when this is difficult. To the department I run, I find that it is indeed not easy. For the Belgian diplomats, the laureates' lists of the previous diplomatic exams showed a significantly improved male-female ratio compared to the past. Since 2016, the average inflow rate has been six men and four women. For the first time, more women than men were enrolled for the current exam. However, recent recruitment does not correct the imbalance for the whole career. In 2020, the proportion of women in foreign careers went from 23% to 28%. That's an improvement, but is that enough? Of course, that's not enough. The male-female relationship with the Belgian ambassadors is currently 89% male compared with 11% female. Ambassador functions are reserved for diplomats from class A3. There is currently an imbalance between women who have been appointed at the right level. At the end of 2020, a survey was organised among women staff members of the Foreign Affairs Office on the potential obstacles for women to become candidates for promotion or post office. The results of the survey highlighted three concrete actions which will be rolled out in the coming weeks, namely training on gender bias, a mentor programme for both women and men, but with a special call for women to become candidates, and voluntary self-development training for women who indicated that they needed it. It is too early to make an evaluation of the programme. We have also held sessions on this issue in the FPS. We had already addressed this issue, which I really care about, in the discussion on the policy note. Reversing trends takes some time, but we need to be active and proactive. The significant participation of women in decision-making and their representativeness in politics is a priority of Belgian foreign policy. In particular, this is an integral part of the Women, Peace and Security Agenda. In this context, my services are implementing the third Belgian National Action Plan "Women, Peace and Security", in which one of the six pillars focuses specifically on the aspect of women's participation. Detailed information on the implementation of this plan can be found in the annual reports available on the website of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. In general, and as indicated by the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, temporary special measures, including quotas, are an effective method of accelerating women's participation and de facto equality between men and women. Of course, quotas are not enough to achieve this goal. There was also a need to remove structural barriers, combat discrimination, sexism, negative stereotypes, gender-based violence and ensure sexual and reproductive health and rights. Belgium systematically addresses these issues in the relevant multilateral fora. The most recent example is the Belgian participation in the 65th session of the Commission on the Status of Women in March 2021. In the negotiations on the agreed conclusions on the priority theme (including women's participation), Belgium called for strong language concerning equal representation of women in parliaments. In my opening speech on this occasion, I myself stressed the need for concrete actions, including quotas or target figures, to achieve the full, equal, effective and meaningful participation of women. In addition, at the ministerial debate in which Belgium participated, our country shared its "good practices" in policy and quota matters. Our country also addresses gender equality and the human rights of women and girls in all our bilateral relations, including with European countries. We have seen this in previous questions: unfortunately it is also a question that arises again or again – according to the case – in Europe, sometimes with a specific focus on women's participation or on structural barriers that have an indirect impact. For example, Belgium intervened during the Universal Periodic Review of the three countries you mentioned (Azerbaijan, the Czech Republic, Romania) with recommendations to strengthen the fight against violence against women. As I say every time we tackle this problem: while it is essential that we insist on this on the international scene, it is also essential that we continue to work on this issue in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u10	Madam Minister, thank you for your response, which reflects your will and determination. When we go through the report of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, it is rather troubling to note that at the current pace, in order to achieve total parity between women and men in parliaments, we will have to wait another 50 years, which is not acceptable. So we need to speed things up. According to the report, as of 1 January 2021, only three parliaments had at least 50 per cent women. It is troubling that the parliaments concerned are those of Rwanda, Cuba and the United Arab Emirates. However, Cuba and the United Arab Emirates cannot be said to be an example of democracy. It should not be dictatorships – it is not a question of Rwanda – that serve as a pretext for good practice. I thank you for insisting on the European Union. In addition, you have done well to say that we must sweep before our door and that the fight for a better respect for gender parity must first be conducted at home because there is still a lot of sexism in our society and, in particular, in the political world. I thank you, therefore, for your work in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u11	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the Minister for her answer. As far as the Conference on the future of Europe is concerned, I can only conclude, like you, that walk your talk has not always been given to everyone. As you know, I have put the previous parliamentary term in the European Parliament. There are a lot of resolutions being adopted to get more women appointed in all kinds of places, but when it comes to setting an example, there is always a lot to be drawn from in order to achieve gender balance. That is a pity, and that is not a good signal either. As far as the diplomats are concerned, I had specifically asked about the relationship between men and women at ambassador level. It is almost poignant to note that the ratio is currently 89 versus 11 %. I think there's still a lot of work to be done there. The question is, of course, how to achieve a better ratio or relationship between men and women. I hear you say that you are advocating, among other things, quotas. That's how I understood it. I am not a big supporter of that right now. Why? One will only be the woman who is named in a certain place because she is a woman. As a woman, I would find that more confrontational than an appreciation for who I am and the qualities I have. I really don't believe in quotas. I think there are other ways of achieving a better balance. I believe that we women in politics have an exemplary role to play in politics and diplomacy as a woman or as a mother. I believe in that much more. I think everyone agrees that this corona time is a terrible time, but it has also brought to light positive things. One of these positive things is that a lot of digital can happen. The possibilities it offers digitally make the combination of work-family easier. It can make it easier for women to take the step. I am thinking, for example, of the oral questioning sessions here in Parliament. Why should we, as Parliament, not argue in favour of maintaining it in a digital way? We often sit in a committee room for hours waiting for our question to come. I do not think that is a model of how one spends one's time in an efficient way. At local level, I have also advocated that the committee meetings should be kept digitally or at least in a hybrid manner. We're gonna do the same in Ghent. That gives you the opportunity to be at the kids' house even though you're not really there. It's different for the kids. These are all examples of how we can encourage women to take that step without having to work with quotas, in which I believe much less. I think we're pulling the same string. We may achieve the goal in a different way, but I will try to do that example.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I'd like to say: I am quoted and I am proud of it. All the women who sit here have come to Parliament because of the quotas on the lists. Also with regard to the variation in places 1 and 2, one might say that it was not worth getting that place, Mrs Van Bossuyt. When we looked at how many women were in Parliament in the early 1990s, without quota legislation, that was barely 14%. Since the quota legislation there has been steady progress to 40%. I am not questioning the qualities of women in this House. In this way people get opportunities to stay in politics too. These quotas have brought about this progress and I cannot say that I would question the quality of women in Parliament on the basis of those quotas. I am in favour of quotas and also of diplomatic posts. An example has already been set by Hendrik Bogaert in connection with the management of the administration. At that time, a KB was issued which provides that up to two thirds of the same sex may be and that equal qualifications give priority to women. What's wrong with that? We note that there have been invisible barriers and we want to get rid of them so that equality is there once and for all. Once there is equality, it comes spontaneously. Then they don't question them anymore. Women then engage in networking in order to ensure that they also have these promotional opportunities. So we need to create that level playing field first, and structural measures are needed for that. I support you, therefore, if you want to take positive action and give women priority to job vacancies for ambassadors in the case of equal qualifications. Programmes for mentoring and specific career guidance are also important. Mrs Van Bossuyt referred to our digital meetings and I am absolutely in favour of them. That is not the way in which the debate is conducted, when it comes to oral questions. However, when it comes to other cases, I am not in favour of it. After all, we have noticed that, for example, the tabling of amendments is not efficient. Madam Secretary, please continue with your plan and ensure that it is rolled out as soon as possible. We need to see the figures go up and I am sure you will find very skilled women for ambassador posts. They will certainly be equal, even if they are appointed by positive action. I've never met a diplomat who didn't fit because she was a woman or somehow had a chance. So I support your plans. I would also like to mention the family policy of Sweden and the gender ambassador. I remain in favour of this, and I hope that you will start examining its potential benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u13	It is not customary to start a discussion in the context of the questions, and I just want to say that it is important that at the end of the journey everyone is on the same lines as regards the improvement of today's situation. However, we do differ on the way in which it is to be achieved. One important point is that we need to combine our ideas in order to determine the direction rather than go against each other. If a woman starts to think she's being appointed because she's a woman and not because she's just smart enough or competent enough, that's the wrong dynamic. As gender equality concerns everyone, the quota system must be approached very carefully not only by us, women, but by society as a whole. Mrs. Van Bossuyt, you don't mean bad. You're very capable. We do not always agree on the substance, but I would never think that the reason why a woman would be here is because she is a woman. That is wrong, and that is certainly not the image we need to convey.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u14	Madam Secretary, thank you for the supplement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u15	Mr Lacroix, Belgium is actively engaged in various multilateral and European forums for the promotion and protection of freedom of expression in all its aspects. The events in Slovenia and Malta that you refer to in your written question are indeed a source of questioning and are closely followed by our diplomatic posts and our administration in Brussels. The issue of press freedom in these two countries has not been specifically discussed in the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. However, freedom of the press has been the subject of in-depth discussions in the dialogues of the Committee of Ministers with the Commissioner for Human Rights on the one hand and the platform for strengthening the protection of journalism and the safety of journalists on the other. In October 2020, the Commissioner for Human Rights issued a statement on the investigation into the tragic murder of Daphne Caruana Galizia. It also sent a letter to the Slovenian authorities in December 2020, calling on the Prime Minister to reconsider the decision to suspend the public funding of the national news agency. In addition, an informal exchange of views on freedom of the press and the safety of journalists was held in September 2020. Belgium actively participated I would also like to recall Belgium's voluntary contribution to the platform, thus giving concrete expression to our commitment to its proper functioning. At European Union level, the Commission closely monitors the situation related to freedom of the press. The pluralism of the media in each of the Member States, including Malta and Slovenia, is the subject of an in-depth analysis in the annual report of the rule of law, the 2021 edition of which is due to be published in July. The situation of the media in Malta and Slovenia will be analysed and given our full attention. In addition, media pluralism and freedom of the press are the subject of special attention by the Commission in its new action plan for democracy. The second pillar of the plan provides for new measures to ensure, inter alia, the safety of journalists and civil society in the face of threats they may face. A new directive to protect journalists from abusive legal actions is also foreseen. Belgium intervened at the General Affairs Council on 23 February on behalf of the Benelux States in order to support the Commission and its measures to consolidate our democratic systems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u16	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Your conclusion is quite interesting and relevant, as you recall that journalists consolidate democracy. Indeed, thanks to them, thanks to their work, in conditions that are sometimes difficult – unfortunately, we have seen in Malta, at the risk of their lives, but this happens again in other countries – affairs break out and the truth can be seen. This truth is the antipoison to all populisms, to all the extremisms and acts of corruption that we can know throughout the world. Also, thank you for this personal commitment, thank you for this commitment from Belgium! I had already had the opportunity to question you several times on the subject. You confirm your intentions in this area as well as the interesting work that the European Commission has done in this area in order to protect journalists from abuse - one might even say in this arbitrary case - of justice, since this is one of the methods that some regimes use to threaten them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u17	Dear colleague, the situation in the Sahel, of which the fight against terrorism is only one aspect, is very present in the debates at international level. It is a major area of intervention for the UN and for the EU. At the last Foreign Affairs Council on 19 April, we adopted a Sahel strategy. There are also dedicated intergovernmental structures, such as the Sahel Coalition or the Sahel Alliance. This region is also a priority area for Belgium's foreign policy. This is due in particular to the continued deterioration of the security situation in the region in recent years. Civilian populations are the first victims, as illustrated by the tragic event you mentioned in your question. Violence in the Sahel is multifaceted and intertwined, emanating from jihadist groups, insurgents or community militias, banditry and also from the defence and security forces themselves. Belgium, both nationally and within the EU and the UN, contributes to international efforts for the stabilisation and development of the Sahel. We are applying a comprehensive approach that combines political, diplomatic, development, humanitarian and security efforts, including through Defence and the Federal Police. The fight against terrorism, from prevention to operational security, is one of those efforts. It is not correct to say that France is on a mission alone in the Sahel. To limit itself to the security dimension, a large number of actors in the EU and Belgium are making significant efforts to train the Sahelian defence and security forces. We are committed to MINUSMA and EUTM Mali. In Niger, our bilateral cooperation (Operation New Nero) aims to develop capabilities to support the Forces armées nigériennes (FAN) in their fight against terrorism, with 110 military personnel all year round. The situation is discussed within NATO, within the coalition against Daesh. France is indeed exercising a certain leadership alongside the G5 Sahel countries and with regard to operational military action against terrorism, notably through operations Barkhane and Takuba. Several countries, particularly European ones, are contributing to these operations, and Belgian Defence has also attached liaison officers to them. My Defence colleague will be able to answer in more detail on this subject as well as on the future of our Defence operations in the Sahel, if you so wish. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the fight against terrorism involves military means, an approach which alone is not sufficient. You rightly note that trafficking and exploitation of economic resources are intimately linked to the development of insecurity and jihadism. It is a well-known and complex dimension that must also be integrated into the stabilization efforts of the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u18	Madam Minister, I am the one who thanks you for the very comprehensive answer you gave on a subject that, as we understand it, is very complex. The stakes are different. I must admit that I had put the question on France's "solitude" in this speech. That is obviously not the case. I had the opportunity to speak with a few French Members on the subject. It is true, therefore, that we are aware of the usefulness, importance and necessity of international institutions such as the United Nations, such as the European Union, with all their deployment capabilities, whether in development cooperation or defence. I assure you, this is also the subject of many discussions in the Defence Committee of which I am also a member. We are trying to keep up-to-date and determine how we can improve our ability to contribute in the context of this human tragedy. This could have serious consequences for all of us tomorrow. The place is still at the gates of Europe. I will be with you, Minister, to continue our efforts to pacify the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u19	Madam Minister, five years ago Mr Djalali was detained arbitraryly. The circumstances of his imprisonment were poignant until recently, and perhaps even now, since he was in isolation until last week. He didn't have access to medical care and he had lost weight. He had a projection lamp on him day and night. These are torture practices that are actually prohibited under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. It prohibits the use of inhumane treatment in captivity. Iran also applies a questionable practice to exchange prisoners, as a coin, for prisoners here. We know the situation of the Iranian diplomat convicted here. What information do you have on the circumstances of Mr Djalali's imprisonment? Have you had any recent contact with the Iranian authorities on this matter, or has the Belgian Ambassador been in contact? What have been the recent demarches on the ground and in the bilateral relationship with the Iranian authorities? We adopted an urgent resolution at that time because Mr Djalali was then placed in isolation and was facing the death penalty. At that time, we asked for an immediate and unconditional release of the Iranian authorities and, together with Sweden, for an immediate and unconditional release. The resolution also called for the issue to be raised at European level in the face of urgency. What implementation has been given to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u20	Madam President, thank you for your question and attention to Mr Djalali, who is still stuck in Iran. I will not repeat my questions about Mr Djalali. After all, they go in a more or less the same direction. The European Union extends its sanctions against Iran until April 2022 and adds eight persons and three entities to the penalty list. That is what the European Council is announcing. In response, Iran suspended consultations with the EU on human rights. The European Union introduced restrictive measures in 2011 for several individuals and entities in response to the serious human rights violations in Iran. At the same time, eight persons and three entities were added to the penalty list for their role in the violent reaction to demonstrations in Iran in November 2019. In total, the list now includes 89 people and four entities. Madam Secretary, do you intend to discuss this issue with the Iranian Ambassador in Belgium? What will you tell the diplomat on behalf of the government? Do you plan other steps in response?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u21	The previous speakers have already outlined the situation of Mr Ahmadreza Djalali. Since early April, Professor Djalali has been in solitary confinement, where he has stayed for 20 weeks, but the death penalty would still hang over his head and his state of health, both mentally and physically, remains precarious. At the end of March, VUB Rector Caroline Pauwels stated that Mr Djalali is at risk of succumbing to the torture and abuse to which he is subjected prior to his possible execution. Madam Minister, Prime Minister and yourself were sent a letter asking Brussels universities VUB and ULB and Amnesty International to do everything in their power to save Mr Djalali from death. What is the current situation of Professor Djalali? Have you recently had any contact with the Iranian authorities on the state of health of Professor Djalali and on the request for release? With regard to the latter, and knowing that tomorrow's appeal trial starts against four members of an Iranian terrorist cell, has Iran in any way steered a prisoner exchange? What does the government intend to do to prevent the execution of Mr Djalali? If Mr Djalali were to be executed, what diplomatic consequences would that have for relations between Iran and Belgium, and for enlargement between Iran and the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I wish Mr. Ben Achour, who is obviously not in shape and still has the courage to attend our committee, even if it is virtually. It must be recognized that this form of communication allows us to work, even if it is not easy. Anyway, I wish you good luck, Mr. Ben Achour.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u23	As you know, Dr. Djalali's situation may have reached a decisive stage when he was transferred to the detention centre where he was placed in seclusion. That could have been a final step towards his execution. That was, of course, very disturbing. In prison, he has only very sporadic contact with his family and his lawyer. Moreover, the contacts that my services have had in Brussels and in Tehran show that Dr Djalali's health situation has deteriorated considerably. He also lacks the necessary and urgent medical care in the institution where he is detained. Since then, I and my services have carried out repeated demarches to the Iranian authorities to discuss Dr Djalali's situation. For example, on 2 December 2020, I had a personal meeting with my Iranian Foreign Minister, Mr Zarif, in which I advocated the non-implementation of the death penalty. I have reiterated the Belgian position of principle against the death penalty. In a letter to President Rohani, Prime Minister De Croo also argued against the death penalty. Meanwhile, Dr. Djalali has been reassigned to the general ward of the prison and is no longer in solitary confinement. It is an important first step, but of course it is not enough. Dr. Jalali's latest health reports are still worrying. As Mr Jalali is Swedish, there is, of course, close consultation with the Swedish authorities, both in Stockholm and Tehran. Recently, in early April, together with my Swedish colleague, Ann Linde, I brought Dr Jalali's precarious situation again to the attention of the European Union High Representative for Foreign Affairs, Josep Borrell. We have asked him, in turn and at his level, to complete our action, and this time on behalf of the 27 Member States of the European Union, a humanitarian appeal to the Iranian authorities. Mr Borrell had already spoken in the past about the situation of Dr Jalali, who, as you know, is also a Swedish citizen and therefore a European citizen. The information we have received about Dr. Jalali's health is not very encouraging. We must therefore maintain Iranian pressure in order to help him in this situation. It goes without saying that our diplomacy and I will continue to follow this matter very closely in the coming weeks. With regard to Mrs Safai's question on EU sanctions following the general human rights situation in Iran, Belgium naturally fully supports the recent enlargement and its implementation. I have not been in direct contact with or planned with the Iranian Ambassador, but in almost all bilateral contacts with the Iranian authorities the human rights situation in Iran is being addressed. After all, it is an important element in Belgian and European foreign policy in general. The European Union also conducts an open and transparent communication on the content and rationale of European sanctions policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u24	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply, which clearly shows that both bilateral and European steps have been taken. It is important that Belgium not only takes initiatives of its own, but that this also happens with Sweden and that a humanitarian appeal is also made at European level. In the United States, the Biden government has included Iran in its top three external relations on Global Care Policy Index (GCPI). The Djalali case can also be used as a lever to evaluate the human rights situation. I also asked the question last week to the defendant, who was not against it. It is important to use all possible means there to ensure that the Djalali case is addressed in all discussions with Iran and with our allies, such as the United States, which still have an important role to play in relation to Iran.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u25	Madam Minister, I can hardly explain to you what it felt like when, in November 2019, we were able to see, through social media, even blocked at the beginning of the protests, images of the protests coming out, with our own eyes, how men, women and even children were killed by snipers from a distance on the streets. According to the Reuters press agency, at least 1,500 people were murdered in four days on the streets of Tehran. The regime in Iran kills and suppresses its own citizens and discriminates against women systematically. The regime shuts down journalists and critics and removes them. Many innocent people, such as Professor Djalali, are locked up in front of the regime's own dirty agenda and threatened with death, so that one day they can be used as a passport, to trade for some terrorist, whether or not a diplomat. I know this doesn't leave you unmoved either. That is why I ask you to send out a clear and strong signal, rather than yet another weak and insignificant rejection of communication, which will not help if you really want to raise the issue of human rights violations. That regime dares even here to plot an attack on us. In the interests of Europe, a strong, secular and democratic ally in the region is necessary. You can support the Iranian people to achieve this in the future. Alvast betankt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u26	I thank the Minister for her good wishes and for her response. We are obviously at your side to engage in all the initiatives that are useful to improve Dr. Djalali's situation. The challenge is to act while preserving the chances of bringing the negotiations currently under way in Vienna to a successful conclusion. The stakes are enormous for the whole region and its future. It is obviously necessary to find the right balance, considering that President Trump's policy of maximum pressure is a crushing failure. That seems absolutely indisputable to me. Diplomacy must therefore be supported in other ways, and that is what is currently being done in Vienna.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u27	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The Iranian regime uses Western prisoners as a coin to put pressure on the West. In this respect, I refer not only to Professor Djalali but also to the situation of Nazinin Zaghari-Ratcliffe, an Iranian-British employee of a charity, who was also sentenced to five years in prison after a mock trial. Recently, her prison sentence was even extended for another year. Djalali and Zaghari-Ratcliffe are just two examples from a list of Iranians of dual nationality who are randomly arrested and sentenced with a mock trial, to put pressure on the West, in order to obtain a relief from sanctions and the release of terrorists. We must not be blind to what the strict Islamic regime is capable of. We must certainly not be blind to the presence of Iranian cells, the so-called diplomats on their own territory and on European territory. I hope that this will be properly followed up with your fellow ministers, also in the interests of our national security.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u28	Madam Minister, thank you for your response and I very much welcome the efforts of our diplomacy to try to move forward on Mr. Djalali's case. In particular, I welcome the fact that the debate has also focused on the European level, which is a much more important lever. Like you, we will continue to follow this file, for which we offer our encouragement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u29	Madam President, Minister, as you know, the Chinese President recently confirmed a reform of the electoral system for Hong Kong. This reform had a very negative impact on the opposition in the administrative region. All this has been done without any participation from the Legislative Council, the Hong Kong Parliament. Some time ago, in mid-March, the EU criticized the planned electoral reform that would increase China's grip on the composition of the Hong Kong Parliament. The EU would also have considered additional measures. When I submitted the question, there were still few specific details about the reform. It was clear, however, that this was yet another battle for democratic rights in Hong Kong. For example, the number of directly elected people would be drastically reduced. A high number of seats are allocated by a committee of Beijingists. The rest of the seats are divided by socio-professional groups. Candidates should be screened and approved by a monitoring committee and the body responsible for implementing the controversial national security law. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, how and with what bodies have you discussed this new evolution and the attack on democracy? Are you aware of any additional measures announced by the EU? What possibilities were kept open? What is Belgium's attitude towards this new evolution? How will our country stand up to the additional measures announced if they were to come? My second question concerns the pro-Chinese adaptation of Hong Kong's educational curriculum. It became clear through a circular to the schools that education in Hong Kong should evolve pro-Chinese and in line with the national security law adopted last year, at least according to the Chinese regime. The contents of the circular defy all imagination. It is said that there should be no room for debate or compromise when it comes to national security. Children will also have to learn about the safety law that was introduced last year. Schools will no longer be allowed to participate in political activities. Teachers and teaching materials should be checked. All anti-China books and flyers must be destroyed. Insurrection against all these measures is hardly logical, given the repression that has been taking place since 2019 against pro-democratic anti-China demonstrators. The only outcome of the event seems to be that one has to endure the situation. I have the following questions. In which organs have you already spoken back about this new evolution? Have any additional measures been taken in this area by the EU? What possibilities are there left open? What is Belgium's attitude to this new evolution which, and I am sure you will agree with me, is detrimental to the development of Hong Kong children and young people?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I fully share your concern about recent developments in Hong Kong. Since the introduction of the National Security Act in June 2020, the situation has deteriorated further. As you know, Belgium and the European Union have strongly urged China to respect the 1984 Chinese-British Declaration, the Hong Kong Basic Law and the high degree of autonomy granted to Hong Kong under the one-country principle. In the conclusion of the Council of the European Union, these calls have been followed by concrete measures implemented by Belgium since 2020, such as enhanced dialogue with civil society actors. Belgium has also participated in several initiatives concerning the situation in Hong Kong within the framework of the Human Rights Council and the Third United Nations Commission. Recent developments in Hong Kong, including the reform of the electoral law and the school programme, as well as the numerous arrests of members of the democratic opposition, give rise to great concern. Therefore, possible extensions of the measures formalised in the Council's conclusions in July 2020 are on the European agenda. Discussions on this matter are ongoing within the Council. The measures are designed to change Beijing's attitude towards Hong Kong. Our country also continues to pay attention to the situation in Hong Kong by addressing it at all appropriate levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u31	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The issue is indeed important, even if China says that it should not interfere with its internal affairs. Human rights are a common good. Human rights are universal and we must not make concessions with regard to freedom of association and expression, which we are talking about here. We must always address them in the dialogue with China. At European level too, these additional measures, which we look forward to, must certainly be taken. We heard in committee recently that China is not a rival, but a competitor. Push back where you must, cooperative where you can . That pushback, which used to happen less, we absolutely need to handle. It is unacceptable and people suffer from the lack of democracy and freedoms. Especially if one has tasted it as in Hong Kong that is an inhuman fact. We need to go beyond just expressing a concern. We must continue to address this systematically and at all levels and take the appropriate measures, both bilaterally and multilaterally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u32	Thank you for your reply, Madam Deputy Prime Minister. On the ground, there is no good evolution at all. We can all see that. In 1997 it was agreed that there would be different rules for Hong Kong than in the Communist dictatorship of China, in particular for the freedoms as we know them in the West. Through these agreements, the region has also become one of the most important financial and economic centres in the world and an international trading hub that is very important. There is no respect for these agreements on the ground anymore, quite the contrary. The introduction of the National Security Act has put an end to the freedoms of Hong Kong citizens. It is therefore particularly painful and poignant to see how this evolution continues there. You say that you and the EU share the concerns and that we have been working on the enhanced dialogue with civil society. This is, of course, all positive and deserves to be followed up, but you have not responded to the possible extension of the measures. You said that this debate is still going on. I would have liked to know what possibilities are being kept open at the moment. However, we will certainly come back to that later. However, I think, and I would like to emphasise this here, that the easy and too cautious attitude of the EU and other countries such as Belgium is difficult to understand in this situation. I would ask you to show the necessary decisiveness here, rather than just another reaction, however well-meant it may be, that concerns are shared. I'm sure we'll follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u33	Mrs Ponthier, in reply to your question about the visit of the Chinese Foreign Minister to Iran, I can indeed tell you that I am aware of these facts. After all, all relevant diplomatic and political events are followed by the Brussels Department and our embassies abroad. However, I do not intend to discuss that specific dossier with the Chinese, nor with the Iranian Ambassador, although, of course, geostrategic developments are also being addressed in bilateral contacts with both countries, including China's role in the Middle East. Of course, it is not new that China is trying to secure its strategic interests, including its energy supply in the Middle East and the Gulf region. Whether this agreement can contribute to this is still to be seen, because we still have to look at how it will be implemented in practice. Iran's involvement in the ringt and road initiative is part of China's ambition to extend its influence beyond its borders, as demonstrated by the titanic project to establish a network of rail and sea routes linking China to the rest of the world. Iran is trying to diversify its trade relations. It is important that we continue our dialogue with Iran on the nuclear dossier, but also on other aspects of the bilateral relationship between Iran and Europe, including trade. Indeed, Iran will still play an important role in the region in the near future, not only because of its significant energy resources, but also because of its involvement in various regional conflicts. With regard to the nuclear agreement with Iran itself, I remain convinced that this is the best guarantee to avoid a nuclear arms race in that region. Belgium will therefore support all diplomatic efforts, including those of the EU and the other JCPOA countries, to enable the return of the United States and Iran to the agreement. The talks in Vienna give the first positive signals and the intentions on both sides are clearly still present to restore the JCPOA, but much diplomatic efforts are still needed to make that possible. China is also convinced of the usefulness and necessity of the JCPOA. In addition to the nuclear dossier, Iran's regional policy must of course be discussed, including Iran's involvement in Syria, Iraq and Yemen. A solution to the nuclear issue would appear to be a first necessary step to address the wider regional problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u34	Madam President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for your reply, which states that you will have to wait and see what the long-term impact of the agreement will be. We must be under no illusions about this. We must be vigilant about the Chinese-Iranian alliance, which, in my view, could pose a serious threat to Western interests in general and to European interests. Iran's involvement through the inclusion of Iran in the Chinese Belt and Road Initiative, the new Silk Road, has already given China a not insignificant push to achieve the huge project, with the aim of course not to be naive about it, but to strengthen China's global economic dominance, which sounds stronger and stronger in all areas. I really want to warn and I would like you to warn in international fora about the formation of a new anti-Western alliance, which clearly reflects the agreement. It is a new axis, which the West should be very concerned about. You're too careful in that. You may or may not yet openly admit that this threat is real. However, we really have to ask ourselves what our strategic response to the rapprochement must be. We must also dare to do so, without blinkers. I would like to call on you to express this in that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u35	Mrs Ponthier, your question No. 55016743C was linked to it. So I'm guessing you asked both questions together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u36	Madam President, it seems that something had gone wrong when the question was put. One question is an extension of the other. So I set them both.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u37	Madam President, Minister, Lebanon has been going through the most serious economic and financial crisis in its history for several years. Following a new fall in the Lebanese pound, which, on 16 March 2021, reached its lowest historical rate (15,000 pounds per dollar), the popular movement of revolt directed against the political class resumed. It culminated on Monday, March 8, 2021, which saw the majority of Beirut's entrances and several roads across the country blocked by demonstrators. The situation has also worsened over the past 12 months, first because of the health crisis and then because of the explosion in the port of Beirut last summer. This disaster was also the ultimate indicator of the endemic corruption that hit Lebanon and infiltrated all levels of the state. Some seem willing to do anything to maintain the benefits gained over the years and to withdraw from the system in place. A new illustration of this was given a few months ago by the Bank of Lebanon's refusal to answer the questions necessary to carry out the judicial audit or forensic audit of the institution, on the pretext that a law on bank secrecy would prohibit it. The unwillingness of the Bank of Lebanon would be attributable to its director, Riad Salamé. The latter is also targeted by a Swiss investigation into possible misappropriation of funds and, at the beginning of March, contradictory information was circulated about the possibility of Washington, in coordination with the European Union, deciding on economic sanctions against it. The audit in question is a requirement of the IMF prior to the disbursement of any international assistance, as is the demand for real measures to combat corruption in the country. Minister, what do you have to do with our diplomatic representation on the spot? What initiatives could Belgium take, in the bilateral and/or European context, to support the demands of the Lebanese people? What means of pressure, which make it possible to make the fight against corruption of the Lebanese political and economic class tangible, is available to the European Union? Finally, is there any reflection at European level on possible sanctions against certain leaders suspected of corruption?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u38	Madam President, Mr Ben Achour, our embassy in Beirut has confirmed that the Lebanese Central Bank has indeed refused its full cooperation in this judicial verification investigation. She stressed that this was one of the conditions for financial support set by the IMF but also by the European Union, the United Nations and the International Support Group for Lebanon, including China, France, Germany, Italy, Russia, the United Kingdom, the European Union and the Arab League. The request for a preliminary judicial verification investigation by the Central Bank is therefore widely shared among the international community, including among the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council. Finally, it was reported that the Lebanese, within civil society as well as the political opposition itself, are pressuring for European sanctions to be taken, but that they focus mainly on preventing the possible influence of the outcome of the forthcoming elections in May 2022. Our country has already made significant efforts to help the Lebanese people. In particular, we sent two C-130s with emergency medical and humanitarian assistance, immediately after the explosion in the port of Beirut on 7 August 2020. My predecessor participated in the first donor conference organized by France and the United Nations. The Minister for Development Cooperation participated in the second donor conference. An additional €6 million has been made available to the World Food Programme, the International Committee of the Red Cross and the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. For 2020, our direct humanitarian aid amounted to 10.7 million euros, including aid for the reconstruction of the port with Finexpo (support for the purchase of cranes and Agra pumps). Our commitment continues unabated. Belgium will release €8 million for the United Nations Joint Fund for Lebanon in 2021. In 2020, our country was the largest contributor to this Fund after Germany. Finally, the situation in Lebanon was discussed within the framework of the Foreign Affairs Council in March and again recently on 19 April. The Council recognizes the seriousness of the situation and agrees on the need to exert pressure on the Lebanese political class in order to unblock the political situation and implement a reform programme. In addition, at the level of the relevant Council working group, an option document of the European External Action Service (EEAS) will be used to see what levers the European Union can use. The options put forward by the EEAS are both stimulating and dissuasive. All the options on the table during this phase of reflection provide for the possibility of sanctioning. Belgium will actively participate in these reflections, taking into account that these measures should help to meet the challenges facing the Lebanese people and create a sense of urgency among political actors in order to take the necessary steps to overcome the political impasse and establish a fully-fledged government that can implement the necessary reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u39	Minister, I listened carefully to your answers. Lebanon must of course be supported in its reconstruction effort after the explosion of the port of Beirut, and we must do what we can to find solutions to the political blockage. But, in my view, Lebanon's major challenge today is the reconstruction of the rule of law and the fight against corruption. Lebanon is an important country because of its history, which has often been tragic, but also because of its multicultural character. Today, the Lebanese population can no longer see its country looted by a caste leader of politicians, businessmen, etc. I must note that Lebanese democracy has become a form of "kleptocracy". In this respect, I believe that the situation is changing in Europe: in France and Switzerland, initiatives are being taken with regard to the Lebanese funds that would be hidden in these countries. The justice of these countries goes faster than the Lebanese justice itself, which does absolutely nothing to change things. In fact, no one has been concerned, judicially speaking, for the past two years, since the beginning of the popular uprising. The only prosecutor Ghada Aoun, who was proactive and ambitious on corruption issues, was removed from the case she was dealing with. As I said in my question, the figure of Riad Salamé is obviously emblematic of this situation, but there are others. I believe that Belgium should take initiatives to help make the funds of politically exposed people in Europe fully transparent. Today, a system protects a small caste of Lebanese leaders, and I sincerely believe that Belgium cannot be complicit in such acts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u40	Madam President, Madam Minister, you have already given us some information in various discussions we have had in recent weeks about the important visit of the US Secretary of State. I am therefore referring to my sub-questions. I will listen carefully to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u41	Madam President, Ms Jadin, as part of the NATO 2030 process, the Alliance is examining how to adapt to future security challenges. The NATO summit next June will therefore adopt proposals on this subject, including a possible adaptation of the strategic concept. This concept dates back to 2010 and no longer reflects the current security environment, for example vis-à-vis Russia or China. The threats facing allies have evolved fundamentally. For example, cyber attacks can have a major impact on the functioning and security of a country. Partnerships, in particular with the European Union, need to be better valued. NATO must take these developments into account in its organisation and operation. This adaptation of the Alliance reflects the evolution of the nature of conflicts between States and non-State actors. It does not alter the relationship between NATO and the United States. In response to your question about my first bilateral meeting with the US Secretary of State, I can tell you that it took place in a very warm, very friendly atmosphere. She's a nice person. This meeting provided the basis for concrete bilateral and transatlantic cooperation. From the outset, Secretary of State Blinken stressed Washington's willingness to restore a central place to multilateralism, to strengthen alliances, especially with European countries sharing the same values, such as Belgium. We have discussed the current priorities of US foreign policy, namely covid-19, climate, China. We also mentioned the collaboration between our two countries, particularly in the production of covid-19 vaccines. There were also concrete avenues for cooperation, particularly on disarmament and non-proliferation issues. For my part, I reaffirmed our willingness to cooperate in the fight against terrorism, whether within the coalition against the Islamic State or in Africa. We then referred to our collaboration within NATO. I stressed that a strong Europe is a useful ally for both the United States and NATO. On a plurilateral level, Mr Blinken welcomed the preclearance agreements concluded at the end of 2020. Once ratified, they will offer a competitive advantage to our national airport to attract more transatlantic passengers. For my part, I referred to the Belgian Princely Economic Mission that our country is organizing this fall in Atlanta, Boston and New York. This event, led by her Royal Highness Princess Astrid, will deepen the already intense economic relations between our two countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u42	These are many very interesting answers! They reinforce the hope that we all have, that our transatlantic relations will improve significantly compared to those we have had in recent years. This obviously requires more multilateralism, greater confidence, economic exchange and exchange of research. We have many expectations about this, but also many things to give. I would like to take as a witness the discussions we had, again last week, Madam President, during our hearings with the American Ambassador, concerning our resolution on the revival of transatlantic relations. To bounce back on the NATO side, according to my analysis, this marks an important turning point in this institution's strategy. We must take the time to discuss this, to find ourselves in this Alliance. I call him my vows. But I hope that we can do so with sufficient resources, so that the European Union and NATO members can move forward in full equality and at the same level as our friends in the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u43	Madam President, Minister, as you know, an incident occurred on March 23 in the middle of the Suez Canal. In fact, a 400-metre-long container carrier found itself trapped in the middle of the Suez Canal, causing massive traffic jams on this seaway essential for world trade. Mohab Mamish, advisor to Egyptian president Abdel Fattah al-Sissi on port matters, said on 25 March last that "navigation should resume within 72 hours". History will tell us that it took more time. Indeed, I already tabled this question on 26 March. Minister, do you have any additional information about the circumstances of this incident? What are the direct or indirect consequences for the Belgian economy with regard to its imports and exports during this period? Has Egypt appealed to the international community to seek special assistance in the aftermath of this incident? The latter question is self-answered, given the date of the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u44	Madam President, Minister, Mr Jadin has already explained a great deal, with a great deal of bravure. Communication is very important in such incidents. It is striking that the spokesman of the Suez Canal Authority, the Egyptian state-owned company that manages the canal and thus also collects the revenue, on Wednesday 24 March, so that day after the ship crashed, distributed the incorrect message that the ship had been detached. However, a small child could see that this was not the case at all. Several sources in the nautical world claim that this was done precisely to avoid shipping companies deciding to choose the crossing of Cape of Good Hope. Madam Secretary, what were and are the direct and indirect consequences of the incident on our economy in the short term and longer term? When and with which direct and indirect bodies, federal, Flemish, local, EU level, bilateral, global, such as the IMO, did you come into contact to analyse the situation and take action? What were the results of these contacts? Were you directly or indirectly contacted through other international channels, primarily by the Egyptian authorities themselves? If so, when and by which authorities? Finally, this is the most important part of my question, did you also receive the incorrect message on Wednesday 24 March that the ship was withdrawn? If so, what source did this come from? Are you aware that the message was deliberately sent into the world by the Egyptian authorities? If so, what follow-up have you given or will you give through diplomatic channels?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u45	Madam President, Madam Secretary, it was a very long ship. Mr Jadin, you are talking about 400 metres. I don't know if you've ever been to Australia. My sister lives there and I've seen road trains there. Those are trucks that are up to 53 meters long. It's very impressive to see them pass. Furthermore, I refer to my written record.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u46	I confirm Mrs Van Bossuyt's statement on road trains. They are indeed really impressive and are absolutely necessary in a country like Australia. Thank you for your questions regarding the incident with the Ever Given container carrier stuck in the Suez Canal on March 23 and which caused a six-day blockage of shipping links. On 29 March, the vessel was towed. Based on the on-site investigations, it appears that the vessel was in the Suez Canal at the time of a sandstorm. In order to manoeuvre, the vessel would have increased its speed, which, in combination with a strong wind, would have led to the incident. At present, the Foreign Affairs Department has not been informed by Egypt of the details of the analysis of the situation or of any lessons that might be learned from it. Our position in Cairo follows this issue closely in collaboration with the competent authorities at regional, federal and international levels, with the parties concerned, including the ports of Antwerp and Zeebruges. During the incident, Egypt did not express a formal request for support or cooperation to Foreign Affairs. There was therefore no formal contact of this kind between the Foreign Affairs departments and the Egyptian government. In the blockade there were several containers with products destined for the Belgian market. However, the immediate impact of the incident has been limited to date, as shown by a survey of the ports of Antwerp and Zeebrugge. There is a good exchange of information between the different actors and the logistics chain, such as shipping companies, terminals and ports, in order to establish efficient logistics planning and avoid delays. The number of container ships that sail directly to Antwerp after passing the Suez Canal is small. Most container ships first arrive at Rotterdam and Hamburg before coming to Antwerp. The arrival time in Antwerp therefore depends on the smoothness with which these ships are handled there. At present, the port of Zeebrugge is only experiencing a little more pressure at the car terminals in order to eliminate the delay in delivery, but this does not cause major problems. The container shipping companies are still on schedule. In the coming weeks, it will be more crowded in that segment, as it is not unusual for ships to be distracted to Zeebrugge if congestion problems occur in neighbouring ports. Zeebrugge has the habit of anticipating any additional run-ins. Ever Given belongs to a Panamanian subsidiary of the Japanese shipping company Shoei Kisen Kaisha and has been managed by the Taiwanese company Evergreen Marine. The determination of responsibility is a complex process, which has reached the stage of analysis of the cause of the incident. As regards the long-term economic impact for Belgium, the sectoral organisation Agoria considers that the incident is not significant, since supply chains have been disrupted for months for various reasons related to the coronavirus pandemic, resulting in increased logistical costs and slower deliveries. The organization advises its members to review their supply chains and adjust their risk assessment. Estimates of the impact of the incident on world trade in the Suez Canal still vary for the time being and are not yet up to date. It is only at a later stage that it will be possible to decide quantitatively on its economic consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u47	Mrs Van Bossuyt, I don't know if you made me want to go to Australia. In any case, you have stirred my curiosity! Maybe I'd like to see what you've been talking about. Madam Minister, thank you for your reply once more. In the end, it still demonstrates the relative fragility to which global trade flows are exposed. At the European level, however, we will have to look at certain routing processes and consider alternatives, in order to improve supply and also guarantee our trade commitments for the good of our businesses, our economy and our jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u48	Indeed, some of the questions, including the answers, were already somewhat out of date. The logistical and economic consequences remained more limited than initially feared, but I am mainly concerned here with the diplomatic and communicative aspect. Madam Minister, you have indeed indicated that you have had frequent contacts with various actors in various areas, including through the Cairo Embassy. I have not been able to understand from your reply exactly what was communicated about the incorrect communication on 24 March of the spokesman of the Suez Canal Authority. That is the most problematic thing about the whole file, namely that a spokesperson of an official authority of another country sends consciously or unconsciously, presumably the first, wrong communication into the world. That's a diplomatic incident. You'll have to follow up on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u49	Madam Minister, you yourself referred to the fact that our economy has been very strongly impacted by the corona crisis. What happened in the Suez Canal will come back to that. Fortunately, the impact is limited. We have already been able to read that, and you have confirmed it once again. I agree with Mrs Jadin on her statement that this incident has shown once again how dependent we are all, how everything is interwoven. It is therefore very important that we all put our backs on the new European trade policy, known under open strategic autonomy. This will only become more important in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u50	The Nicaraguan law on "foreign agents" adopted at the end of October 2020 provides that all natural or legal persons of Nicaraguan nationality or not receiving funding of foreign origin must register and submit a regular report on their financing and activities. The areas of application of this legislation appear to be broad, but in practice this legislation mainly targets NGOs active in Nicaragua and their staff. This legislation is part of a set of measures that control all activities in Nicaragua that benefit from external input. Other measures also limit the civil and political rights of some opponents, such as the Cybercrime Act, the definition of hate crimes and the Law on People's Rights to Independence, Sovereignty and Self-Determination for Peace. These developments are closely monitored by our competent embassy for Nicaragua, which is located in Panama. The situation in Nicaragua was not discussed at the Foreign Affairs Council on 19 April. This is expected to happen soon, as general elections will take place in November and opposition will face obstacles to their free participation, as a result of the aforementioned measures affecting the rule of law. Developments in Nicaragua have the continued attention of the European Union. In his statement of 22 December, High Representative Borrell called on Nicaragua to respect freedom of expression and association, to amend its controversial legislation and to ensure that it is implemented in accordance with international human rights obligations. The European Union also recalled that it expects progress in three areas, namely the implementation of the March 2019 agreements between the Government and the opposition, cooperation with and return of human rights organisations in Nicaragua, as well as the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, and finally an agreement on institutional reforms between the Government and the opposition to ensure free and transparent elections. I have not yet had the opportunity to speak with my counterpart, but Belgium systematically sends messages to Nicaragua about the absolute need for free, transparent and open elections to all opposition movements on 7 November 2021. This is particularly the case in bilateral contacts and, if another route were favoured by the existing authorities, Belgium would not hesitate to join other EU Member States in considering the designation of new individuals under the targeted restrictive measures adopted on 14 October 2019. With regard to coordination with the United States in recent years, Europe and the United States have not disbanded their bilateral relations with the countries of Central America. We share the wish to see the fundamental democratic principles respected there and we will continue to exchange on all issues that can contribute to it, but formal coordination is not on the agenda at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u51	Minister, I see that you are also defending our principles, which are usually ours in the attention of countries as difficult as Nicaragua. Thank you for your answer and attention on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u52	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Your position vis-à-vis President Ortega and the current political structure is very clear. You mentioned that you would not hesitate to join a collective initiative of the Member States of the European Union if some wanted to activate the revision of the list of people to be targeted. Belgium as a great democrat, with a very democratic government like ours, can propel this kind of thing to colleagues in other countries. There is very little time left and, in the run-up to the elections, it is really time for Europe to step up again. It is good to ask for free and democratic elections, but we know that the conditions are difficult. Be assured, in any case, of our support if you are to intensify, in the coming weeks, the line of protection of the fundamental rights of the people of Nicaragua.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u53	I thank the minister for her very illuminating response.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u54	Madam President, Minister, the human rights crisis in Nicaragua has been going on for some time now. It has already appeared in several reports. There was a report in 2018 and recently there was a report from Amnesty International. You clearly state in your reply that we must ensure that Nicaragua's human rights and democratic rights are respected, especially with the elections in mind. The question, however, is what attitude our country will really take. You state that the situation was not discussed at the meeting in April. There's not much time between now and the end of November. If we really want to work on democratic elections in Nicaragua, on the rights of the people to defend that freedom of expression, we must do so today. There are still over 100 people behind bars because freedom is not respected. According to Amnesty International's report, the living conditions in prisons are not optimal either, especially in the context of covid. Will you, as the Belgian Foreign Minister, take the lead in Europe and will you give a signal that is formal and that will ensure that this cart, that right to democracy for the people of Nicaragua, is included?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u55	Minister, I thank the minister for her answer. It is extremely important that our diplomacy fight against the real harassment of the democratic opposition in Nicaragua. I thank her for her efforts in this regard, because it is necessary for a strong message to be sent by Belgium and the EU.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Benelux Inter-Parliamentary Assembly for its extensive work in the field of combating the coronavirus pandemic. As you know, cooperation in the context of the current health crisis is one of the priorities of the Belgian Benelux Presidency of this year 2021. With regard to the recommendation you are referring to, the FPS Foreign Affairs has indeed taken note of it. The subject of this specific recommendation is a Benelux working group and will be discussed in this context by experts from our three countries. On this basis, the General Secretariat of Benelux will then send a draft coordinated response for approval by the Committee of Ministers of the Benelux Union. Pending this draft response, I can already tell you that the mobility of workers has been an essential area of action for years. There is also a high-level consultation between Benelux and North Rhine-Westphalia. This strategic consultation leads various technical working groups, including on access to information on border work. It also focuses on contacts with other border regions in neighbouring Benelux countries such as Lower Saxony, Rhineland-Palatinate and the Greater Hauts-de-France region. Given the importance of cross-border management in this crisis, I favour a pragmatic approach focused on concrete results for the benefit of citizens. I have asked the Benelux Secretariat-General for planning on the basis of a forward-looking and forward-looking table which contains the actions to be undertaken covering the Belgian Presidency of 2021 and beyond. The aim is to ensure the proper follow-up and continuity of the Benelux yards. This table will be useful in our consultations between federal and federal authorities that follow and pilot our three countries. The College of Secretaries-General of the Benelux Union has undertaken to do so. Foreign Affairs continues to support this process.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u57	Thank you, Madam Minister. This recommendation, which was voted unanimously by the Benelux parliamentarians, is part of a proposal that we made. Indeed, on the basis of the gentleman's agreement between Prime Minister Charles Michel and Minister Xavier Bettel, progress could be made towards the evolution of the telework system, cross-border relations and the number of days allowed. When we debated this at the Benelux Assembly, our Dutch friends took an interest in the matter. Finally, at the end of the discussions, we all agreed on a development, which could be the same in the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg, in an attempt to improve the fiscal and social situation of frontier workers. We have reached, after consultation, a clear agreement which is the subject of the recommendation. I understand that a specific working group is studying the matter. This is fundamental, because we know that, behind the political will, the administrations must work. Sometimes, the administration brake comes in. They believe that it is a loss of sovereignty and do not make much progress in what we are asking them to do. I remember that Minister Van Overtveld and Minister Van Peteghem now, the Prime Minister at the time and you yourself now, have been confronted, and you are going to be confronted, by this resistance of the administration, while, at the political level, there is unanimity to ask for this evolution to facilitate the way in which frontier workers will be able to perform telework. This benefits everyone, both in terms of mobility and in terms of comfort of life, when you have children to look after, and in terms of performance. Because telework, in some cases, according to HRD studies, has produced good results and has really produced a favorable evolution of society. The evolution towards 48 days is therefore something very important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u58	Mrs Ponthier, in reply to your question about the information on the Focus on Belgium website, I can tell you that the Belgians included in the list of famous Belgians on the website were selected by the editorial team of Focus on Belgium, based on their merits, historical or topical. Diversity is also taken into account. The person in question is always screened before publication. The article on Ms Sihame El Kaouakibi dates back to 2018, when she was active as a social entrepreneur and had not yet been elected. Then she was widely praised for her commitment. Focus on Belgium highlights the assets of our country. To avoid the polemics, we removed the article from the website on April 6th.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u59	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. You briefly explained the procedure for selection. I would advise you to do this a little more extensively in the future, especially when we see that the facts catch up with us. I will not go into detail about the cesspool that was opened in the El Kaouakibi case and which, as one stirs in it longer, is starting to smell more and more. The naivety with which a number of traditional political parties have participated in this story is also shameful. Someone who has so completely sunk into a swamp of lies, corruption and scams so prominently left on a government web site, even though it was put on in 2018, merely ensures that the credibility of politics, which is not great anymore in public opinion, is once again grounded and almost levelled. The mention of El Kaouakibi has been deleted, but that only happened in early April, after the scandal had already burst. One can wonder why it took so long. The aim of the web site is to propose and advertise Belgium for this country. If this is done with someone involved in a major fraud scandal, it is questionable at the very least. There are still a number of people who I think are dubious. Among other things, Albert Frère is on the list, a man who has become billionaire through insider trading and selling out our business abroad. So there is still some work to be done with these procedures and the selection. If Belgium is to be promoted in this way, all I can say is: 'I rest my case'.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u60	Madam President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, according to Reuters Press Office, Chinese fighters entered Taiwan's sovereign airspace daily in March. At the end of March, China committed the biggest invasion of Taiwan's airspace, with six bombers and ten fighter jets. At the end of March it involved ten Chinese transport planes and eight fighter planes. The Taiwanese army has sent a standard warning to immediately exit Taiwanese airspace. The Chinese pilot's response left little to the imagination when he said that all of this was theirs. We've seen the complications on the ground. In an interview with journalists, the Taiwanese Foreign Minister, Joseph Wu, reported that he knows that American policymakers are very concerned about a possible attack by China on Taiwan. He added that Taiwan is prepared to defend itself unconditionally and, if necessary, to wage war until the last day. Your cabinet is undoubtedly following these very worrying developments very closely. How do you view the polarisation between the US and Taiwan on the one hand and China on the other? Do you see any risks of military escalation there? Have you already had contact with the Taiwanese, Chinese and American ambassadors, respectively, regarding the rising tensions surrounding Taiwan and the Chinese military threat in the region? If there were a military escalation between China and the USA and Taiwan on the one hand, what diplomatic attitude would our country take? Will Belgium then review the rapprochement with China through, for example, the extradition treaty and the EU investment agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u61	Madam President, Mrs Ponthier, the tensions on Taiwan's strait have indeed increased considerably for just over a year. The Chinese raids in the Taiwanese air defence identification zone and, more worryingly, the overruns by Chinese fighters of the so-called median line, which was valid until recently for both Beijing and Taipei as an unpassable threshold. Taiwan responded to that action. Furthermore, since President Biden moved into the White House several American military ships have already sailed through the Strait of Taiwan. The USS John S. McCain is one of them. The American actions are evidence of Washington's support for a Taiwan which it considers to be increasingly threatened. Belgium has every interest in ensuring that Asia is stable, safe and prosperous and is therefore concerned about the deterioration of the security situation in the region. Our country calls on all parties to exercise restraint, to resolve their disputes peacefully and through constructive dialogue, and to avoid any action that undermines the status quo. After all, the current crisis increases the risk of a military incident and already demands lives. In recent air exercises, Taiwanese victims were lamented. It is therefore necessary to avoid at all costs that tensions persist or escalate. Having said that, however, I do not think it makes sense to speculate already on hypothetical scenarios. Both the European Union and Belgium must now focus their efforts more on de-escalation and improving the relationship between the two banks of the Taiwan Strait and their partners. To this end, my services regularly inform themselves of the various foreign missions of the parties concerned. They convey our call for restraint and dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u62	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Belgium must, of course, focus on de-escalation. We must not anticipate hypothetical developments, but we must, of course, follow up on the matter, I understand that you agree and play very briefly on the ball. That is the way forward in this, because an escalation is not impossible, of course, given the evolutions in the past few months. Belgium and the EU should be prepared, if necessary, to use all possible diplomatic means to demonstrate to China that such provocations do not help ensure a good understanding between China and Taiwan and the United States, and therefore with the EU, as an additional partner. I ask you to follow this closely, and I trust that you will do so and that you are prepared for any further developments on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u63	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, between 4 and 20 February 2022 the Winter Olympic Games will take place in Beijing. Because of the massive human rights violations that China is actively supporting, there is an increasing demand worldwide for a boycott of those Winter Games. This is, of course, done by human rights organisations, but also by policy makers, the protest sounds increasingly louder. For example, at the beginning of April we learned that the US Department of Foreign Affairs would like to talk to the allies about possible measures in this area. According to their spokesman, it is a coordinated action, not only in the interests of the US but also in the interests of our partners. I therefore ask you the following questions. What is the Belgian Government's response to the call by human rights organisations to boycott the winter games or to take other measures? Have you been in contact with other partner countries in recent months to discuss this question, or have you been contacted by other countries yourself to support boycott and/or other measures? How did you react to that? As a minister, have you had any contact with the Chinese ambassador on this matter? If so, what was the result? What action will the Belgian Government take on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u64	As you know, human rights are an integral part of Belgian foreign policy, including the policy of Belgium. Concerns about the human rights situation in China are therefore systematically raised in bilateral, European and multilateral terms, despite differences of vision, including on the universality of human rights. You are undoubtedly also aware of the fact that at the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council on 22 March the European Union activated the EU Global Human Rights Sanction Regime. In this context, four Chinese individuals and one Chinese entity were blacklisted because of the worrying human rights situation in the Chinese province of Xinjiang. It concerns the first sanction to be imposed on China since 1989. Belgium has supported it and does not close its eyes to developments in this area. The US State Department has not launched an official call to boycott the 2022 Winter Olympics, nor has it intended to call for them. However, it is correct that certain non-governmental organisations do call for this. The question of a possible boycott of sporting events, such as the Winter Olympic Games, should in any case be part of a dialogue between partners and similar countries and should be analysed in the light of the impact such a decision may have on China's commitment to respect human rights. Such a discussion has not yet taken place at this stage. Our country continues to engage in a lasting dialogue on the defence of human rights with the Chinese authorities and with non-governmental organisations and similar countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u65	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, your answer cannot be said to be entirely satisfactory. In view of developments in and around China, it seems advisable to give at least a strong signal to the People's Republic of China. I believe that this signal can be sent publicly to the Chinese partner, if I may call it that, that there is a discussion on possible measures to be taken. I note that this has not been done so far, and I regret that. That is why I would ask you to raise this issue in public fora. Belgium wants to take the lead in many areas, and I think we can do so in this area too. We can at least show that we are thinking about this and it may be a signal that the Chinese partner is giving thought, even though I am under very little illusions that this will happen effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u66	Madam President, Minister, Cuba is known for its high-quality health care, but also for the international economic blockade of the United States, which was introduced against the country in 1962. Under the Trump administration, sanctions against the country have been tightened and the country even ended up on the United States terrorist list. Finding aspirin and bread on the island is almost impossible. Tourism has also stopped. In the meantime, the country is developing no less than five corona vaccines. It also intends to produce 100 million vaccines. Several experts are looking forward to the results in phase 3 of the vaccine development. Cuba has insufficient access to medical equipment and raw materials. It cannot fully implement its health policy through the international blockade. The blockade is also condemned annually by the United Nations General Assembly, in particular twenty-four times in the meantime. That conviction is likely to be repeated at the next General Assembly of 23 June 2021. Since 2016, there has also been a bilateral EU cooperation with Cuba, which entered into force in 2019. As a result, the blockade was condemned by the then High Representative for Foreign Affairs of the European Union, Federica Mogherini. My questions to you are the following. What is Belgium's position on the economic blockade of Cuba by the United States? What steps will Belgium take and has it already taken to discuss the matter with the United States? What steps will you take to encourage the new President to relax Cuba's policy, particularly in the fight against COOVID-19? Is the NATO Summit with the associated bilateral meetings not a good time to talk about the issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u67	Madam President, Mrs Reynaert, Belgium, like the European Union, denounces the United States' embargo on Cuba, both because of its consequences for the Cuban people and for the European Union. Like the European Union, Belgium supports the resolution presented annually by Cuba to the UN General Assembly, stressing the need for an end to the embargo. The issue of the US embargo and its consequences have already been discussed with the new US authorities during our bilateral technical contacts. Belgium also supports the European Union's contacts with the United States in this area. We hope for a new dynamic in relations between Washington and Havana, especially in the current period of the covid pandemic. In addition to a dialogue on this issue with Washington and Havana, the European Union is also using legal means. One of these is the blocking position, which since 2018 wants to counter compliance with US sanctions against Cuba by EU actors. As far as this year's NATO summit is concerned, we do not yet have an agenda or any clarity on any planned bilateral meetings. In any case, as has already been said, we do not want to quote this draft in our discussions with the US Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u68	Madam Minister, I am pleased to hear that the matter has already been raised at technical level and during contacts with the administration. President Biden has repeatedly stated that he wants to review relations with Cuba. There is therefore a certain opening and willingness to discuss diplomatic matters. It would therefore be a good thing for Belgium to give a political signal that the new policy towards Cuba will also receive support in the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u69	Your first question concerns the precise course of the conference and the Belgian position. On 10 March 2021, the Presidents of the three European institutions signed the Joint Declaration on the Future Conference. Since then, the members of the executive board have been appointed. The day-to-day management shall be composed of representatives of, inter alia, the European Parliament, the European Commission and the Council of the European Union, with Belgium as observers. So far, the executive board has met three times, on 24 March, 7 April and 22 April 2021. On 19 April 2021, the Commission launched its digital and multilingual platform to play a central role in the smooth running of the conference. It should enable all interested parties to record the events they organise, either physically, via VTC or mixed, and to ensure better follow-up. The conference should officially start on 9 May 2021. That is next Sunday, Europe's Day and also Mother's Day. It will end in spring 2022, in particular in order to enable the Commission to implement the recommendations that will result from it. As for your second question, concerning the involvement of the national Parliament and the Länder and a timeline, an additional effort is being made in Belgium to draw the public's attention to the conference and to encourage active participation. This is done, in particular, through the Commission's platforms. Each level of power in Belgium is, of course, encouraged to participate directly in the conference, which is open to all. National parliaments are also involved. Finally, your third question concerns the state of play of the internal analysis of the Foreign Affairs Office in order to determine how different actors and players can be taken into account, so that the vision of our people is represented. Like most Member States, Belgium is at an early stage as far as the organisation is concerned. At the federal level, we are currently examining how to organise a dozen civil panels, possibly using an external service provider. An important task of this external partner would then be to man these civilian panels as inclusively as possible. In addition, it will also be important to bring together the results of this citizen consultation in a Belgian federal contribution to the conference. I would like to stress once again that it is important to respond to the concerns expressed by citizens at the conference. It is therefore very useful that the Commission intends to translate the results of the consultation into policy recommendations to be implemented at EU level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u70	Thank you for your answer, which does not reassure me at all. It is not clear at all how the parliaments of our country will be involved. You say they're encouraged to be as involved as possible. I remember, however, that the Convention on the Constitution for Europe provided for a system of systematic involvement of parliaments. I'm sorry about that and a missed opportunity. After all, we are still a representative democracy, of which Parliament is the patronage. That's why I think it's weird. You cannot therefore blame me for asking more and more questions at the conference itself. It's about something that's gonna cost a lot of money. The aim is to bring Europe closer to its citizens. I maintain that we are doing this primarily by demonstrating Europe's added value with practical examples. How, for example, can we tackle climate issues, energy issues or migration issues? In my view, these practical examples are much more efficient than such conferences, especially since I have just read that there are still differences as to how the conference will be held. There will also be a kind of plenary sitting within the conference, in which the members of the national parliaments are normally represented. Now I read that last week should normally have laid down the role of this plenary. Then they didn't get out, so the appointment was moved to Monday, May 3, 2021. Now it's being re-moved. Apparently, the reason for this is the disagreement over the role that the plenary will be allowed to play. Can the plenary have the last word, or will it rather be the day-to-day administration? You say that the conference should start on Sunday 9 May 2021, but if we have to deal with these issues because there is no consensus on them, I do not think that this is a model of how we can bring Europe closer to the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u71	Madam President, Minister, on 23 March 2021, the Human Rights Council, in which the current government also aspires to a mandate for the period 2023-2025, adopted a resolution calling on Member States to immediately end the use of unilateral sanctions "as an instrument of economic and political pressure'. The text stresses that these sanctions infringe international law and the Charter of the United Nations. This is even more true of'sanctions enforced by extraterritorial measures', which also create obstacles to trade relations between states and hinder 'the right of individuals and nations to development'. That text also stresses the negative consequences of these sanctions on the civilian population of the states to which they are addressed and reaffirms the right of all nations to self-determination. The resolution also calls for the establishment of an impartial and independent mechanism within the UN to also hold the perpetrators responsible and to obtain reparations for the victims of these unilateral sanctions. For example, the World Food Agency points out that, since the United States imposed the strictest sanctions on Syria in 2020 with the Caesar Civil Protection Act, the number of people in food insecurity in Syria has increased by 4.5 million. 12.4 million people have been affected. That's 60% of the population. Also in Yemen, Iran, Cuba, Gaza and elsewhere, such collective punishments imposed or enforced by the US or even the EU cause immense suffering to the population, often affecting women and children most. The 15 votes against in the Human Rights Council were almost all from European countries. What is Belgium's position on this resolution? Belgium rightly relies on its leading role in protecting children in war zones and against the use of cluster bombs. Will this government play the same role in the fight against these unilateral sanctions and against the damage they do to the weak and children in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u72	Indeed, at the end of March, the UN Human Rights Council adopted a resolution on unilateral binding measures. This is done by voting and all EU countries currently members of the Human Rights Council have voted no. These no votes reflect the position of the EU as a whole, including those countries that are not members of the Council, such as Belgium. This no vote was explained in an accompanying EU vote declaration. Given the nature and content of the resolution, which mainly concerns the relationship between states rather than concrete human rights of individuals, the EU considers that the Human Rights Council is not the appropriate forum for dealing with this issue. We therefore do not see why the Council, the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights or the mandate holders for the special procedure should continue to deal with this issue in the various ways provided for in the resolution. The EU does not agree with the view that sanctions are intrinsically illegal, nor with the view that imposing sanctions should lead to accountability or recovery payments. I would like to emphasise that the sanctions imposed autonomously by the EU are fully in line with international law. They aim to promote the objectives of our common foreign and security policy, peace and security, democracy and respect for the rule of law and international law, including human rights. EU sanctions are always part of a comprehensive policy approach, which includes political dialogue and complementary efforts. The EU is making every effort to minimise the adverse consequences for those who are not responsible for the policies and measures that have led to the imposition of sanctions. The EU sanctions regime aims to avoid any negative impact on the civilian population at all times. The vast majority of EU sanctions are targeted measures. They shall be directed solely and specifically at responsible persons or entities. They shall be subject to an entry ban, a freezing of their funds or a prohibition on making their economic resources available. In some cases there is also a targeted export ban, usually an arms embargo or an export ban for products that can be used for the repression of the civilian population. However, broad economic trade measures are very exceptional in the case of EU sanctions. For example Venezuela, the EU has imposed sanctions only on a number of natural persons directly responsible for human rights violations and political repression. The civilian population is therefore not affected. Moreover, humanitarian exceptions are always provided for in the EU sanctions. The European Commission and the Member States are constantly working to make these exceptions as efficient as possible, including by providing guidance for civil society and business. This last year was still the case for Syria or in the fight against COOVID-19. The EU sanctions are therefore aimed at not creating negative effects for the civilian population and are an important policy instrument for the EU, including in defence of human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u73	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answer. It is not just the unilateral sanctions that are often imposed by the EU, but also the sanctions by powerful states which do not care much about international law in this area. Think of the United States. They remain coercive measures and often collective punishments of entire populations, even though this may not be intentional, but the consequences are there. There are still violations of international law, specifically the UN Charter. They are also condemned by an endless series of resolutions adopted in the General Assembly and numerous UN committees and bodies. Think of Cuba's blockade: it is condemned every year by almost all Member States, except the US and Israel. These sanctions are imposed, almost without exception, by rich and developed countries on developing countries. These sanctions also violate human rights, and even the three generations of human rights are violated. They are often introduced, ironically, under the guise of human rights, but they actually exacerbate the situation of the people affected. Think of Iraq, for example. That country has also been subject to a massive sanction regime since the 1990s. The UN has confirmed that this has cost the lives of 500 000 Iraqis, including many children. Often there is also a military extension. Think of the aggression and occupation of Iraq. At the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, the UN Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres, called for all these sanctions to be lifted temporarily, but even that was not addressed. On the contrary, despite the pandemic, sanctions are still being tightened and new sanctions are constantly being imposed. Madam Minister, there is therefore no excuse to continue the violations of all the principles of international law. History has shown that self-declared goals of regime change are never achieved by sanctions. On the contrary, they sometimes strengthen the position of the endorsed governments without exception and always affect the population, especially the weakest and most vulnerable groups. We will shortly table a resolution calling on Parliament to condemn unilateral economic sanctions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u74	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Cogolati's 55016556C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u75	Madam President, Mr De Smet, first of all, I would like to point out that we are following developments closely through the Belgian Embassy in Kuwait and Brussels. The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, called on all Governments to take urgent measures to protect the health and safety of persons in detention and other closed institutions as part of the overall effort to contain the covid-19 pandemic. She highlighted the significant risks if the pandemic occurs in prisons, as the population is very vulnerable. It also called on Governments to "free all persons detained without adequate legal grounds, including political prisoners and other persons detained solely for expressing critical or dissenting opinions". In all of Belgium's bilateral contacts with Bahrain at both the administrative and political levels, human rights are systematically put on the agenda. This includes conditions of detention, including access to health care in detention. On 9 February, I had a meeting with Bahrain's Foreign Minister. Human rights have obviously been mentioned. Since then, I have no longer had a meeting where the Ambassador of Bahrain was present. I hope that the Bahraini authorities will shed full light on the circumstances surrounding the death of Abbas Malallah in Jaww prison. In this context, I refer to the concluding observations made by the Human Rights Council in Geneva to the Bahraini authorities, in particular on the conditions of detention and the treatment of prisoners. Bahrain is bound by its obligations under the Convention on Civil and Political Rights, which it ratified in 2006. In 2020, the Bahraini authorities issued a decree pardoning 901 prisoners. In addition, 585 prisoners serve the remainder of their sentences through rehabilitation and training programmes. More than a year later, in April 2021, some 60 prisoners were released, including human rights activist Hussain Jawad Parweez. These persons continue their sentence in alternative detention. The appearance of the covid-19 in Jaww prison raised the concern of the prisoners' family members. On 28 March, the Bahraini government stated that all prisoners who had been tested positive for covid-19 had been isolated and had received appropriate treatment and were allowed to call their families. These are the information I can give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u76	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, the reports that come to us from official institutions as well as from Amnesty International, for example, on the health conditions in Jaww prison are quite alarming. As with many other aspects, the coronavirus pandemic exacerbates the difficult conditions, not only in Belgium but also in many foreign countries, as is the case in prisons in Bahrain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u77	Madam President, Madam Minister, my question concerns this famous spying affair discovered on April 1st in Italy. Indeed, an Italian naval officer was arrested in the company of a Russian military attaché in Rome. The former allegedly sold confidential documents to Russia. We're not in a James Bond movie, but what we got to know was quite amazing. Indeed, among these documents were also some secret elements related to NATO. According to my information, this would be confidential information related to the North Atlantic Alliance's internal communication system as well as geographical maps. So far, it is not yet known whether this act can have an impact on the national security of NATO countries. Minister, this is not the first time that Russia has been involved in spying. It is recalled that the Netherlands had also expelled two Russian diplomats last December. Bulgaria has also recently accused several of its citizens of spying on behalf of the Russians. These facts are obviously not inclined to improve our relations with Russia, which should always be of concern to us. Indeed, Minister, dialogue is important for building stronger relationships. Amicales, they're probably not, since of course you don't spy on your friends. Minister, have you been able to learn more about this fact? Is it true that the transmission of information through this act of espionage could endanger the security of our countries? How can we re-evaluate these NATO-related internal telecommunications a little better. I know that this is a bit of a question with the expertise of the Minister of Defence, but I thought it was more appropriate to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u78	Mrs Jadin, thank you for your question and I would say that you are "fast on the ball". Unfortunately, therefore, I will not have much to say to you; indeed, we are not in a position to share much information on this case under investigation in Italy. We have to wait for Italian justice to do its job. As far as NATO is concerned, it still needs to assess the damage caused, once the details of the documents that have been espionage are known. It is true that this case once again confirms the risk of espionage for our institutions, and the threat that Russia poses at this level. In general, the Allies do consult fairly regularly within the North Atlantic Council on these internal security issues, including counter-intelligence. Unfortunately, I cannot be more specific about the issue at this stage, but I thank you for asking it because it raises a major and probably growing difficulty in our relations with Russia.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u79	Madam Minister, thank you. I totally understand. In this committee, for several years now, I have made a great deal of effort to analyse what might be called the new East-West relations. I note that, through these facts, the need to continue to engage in dialogue with the Russian Federation should be felt, both at the level of the North Atlantic Alliance and at the level of the European Union. We should also continue to do so as you do, Madam Minister, through you and our diplomacy, which is keen to highlight what is essential to us in terms of democratic values and fundamental rights at all levels. I think that, of course, facts like these must also be part of a dialogue and, I hope, a response from the Russians.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u80	Questions Nos 55016628C and 55016777C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u81	Madam President, Madam Minister, tomorrow, May 5, our country will be submitted to the Universal Periodic Review (UPR) at its third session in Geneva. On this occasion, the human rights situation in Belgium will be examined in a precise and rigorous manner. In this regard, you said, Madam Minister, on the International Human Rights Day on 10 December 2020, that: "Belgium's commitment to human rights is unwavering. Our country continues to fight for human rights for all individuals, regardless of race, sex, nationality, language, religion or any other situation. To be credible at the international level, it is essential that each country fulfils its commitments within its own borders. This also applies to Belgium." We can only agree with you. It must be noted, however, that the report which Belgium sent to the United Nations makes no mention of either the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe or Protocol No. 12 to the European Convention on Human Rights, which has been signed by our country and is still in the absence of ratification, which – agree – weakens the scope of your declarations. However, at the previous UPR session, Belgium had accepted the recommendation of the United States to "continue efforts to combat discrimination and support efforts to integrate members of minorities." In doing so, it was up to our country to monitor or try to ensure its implementation. It should also be recalled that the European Parliament in a resolution of 2018 on the protection and non-discrimination of minorities in the Member States of the European Union called on all Member States to sign, ratify and ensure the implementation of the Council of Europe Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities and Protocol No. 12. Clearly, these recommendations have remained a dead letter with regard to these two international legal instruments. Madam Minister, my question is very simple: can you confirm that tomorrow Belgium will not raise these two points at the UPR session? If so, what are the justifications in fact and in law?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u82	Madam President, Mr De Smet, tomorrow, 5 May, Belgium will present its third Universal Periodic Review in the Human Rights Council. I will speak on behalf of the Federal Government, but above all on behalf of Belgium, and therefore also on behalf of the federated entities of the last five years. I will answer, on their behalf, the questions and comments of the other Member States of the United Nations – which we still need to hear and receive. The UPR process is based on three reports: the national report prepared by the executive of the State concerned, a report of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, which is a compilation of United Nations information on the State concerned, and a report summarizing communications from stakeholders, i.e. mainly civil society. Your question relates to the written report of the Executive and, in accordance with the guidelines of the Human Rights Council, our national report focuses on the implementation of the 187 recommendations accepted by Belgium during its previous Universal Periodic Review, in January 2016. During this second cycle of the Universal Periodic Review, Belgium did not receive any recommendations concerning the ratification of Protocol 12 to the European Convention on Human Rights, which is why it is not mentioned in the report. It goes without saying that, in the case of questions on its ratification, I will explain the situation in Belgium. I would point out that this is a mixed treaty, which means that it must be approved both by the Federal Parliament and by all the relevant federal parliaments. At this stage, Belgium is not in a position to ratify it because a federated entity, Flanders, has not completed its approval procedure. The government of this entity wishes to await the European Court's jurisprudence on the scope of this protocol. With regard to the Council of Europe Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, Belgium did not accept the recommendations for ratification in 2016. This decision was taken in consultation with the relevant FPS and federated entities concerned. The reason is simple: Belgium made a reservation at the time of signature of this treaty. This reservation concerns the definition of minorities. There is currently no agreement in Belgium on such a definition. An expert group is working on this issue and this group met on 17 March. This will certainly be on the agenda of the next Interministerial Conference on Foreign Policy, which I will be organising later this year. The United States recommendation you mention is more general in nature and does not address this particular convention. I would like to add that I would like to be understood my obligations as Minister for Foreign Affairs, representative of Belgium in its entirety, who must speak out in full loyalty and in consultation with the federated entities which, by nature, and because we are different people with different profiles, are not always obliged to share views. But when a point of view is reached by Belgium and the federated entities agree with the federal level to share this point of view, it is my duty to do so fairly at the international level. And that's what I'll do because I'm taking my duty to heart. This does not prevent, of course, behind, before, through or during, from having my own opinion on the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u83	Thank you, minister, for your answer in nuances. I must be frank and tell you that part of this answer disappoints me somewhat in that it is based on considerations which can nevertheless be understood, which are, moreover, true and which refer to technical pipes and not to political motives. I know your role isn't easy. Being a spokesman for Belgian diplomacy and therefore, on certain occasions, for all the federated entities, does not allow our country, in this and many other cases, to have a clear position that is perfectly in line with what some international instruments for the protection of human rights – but that is also the case in other areas such as climate – expect of us. I would just say that it is a pity that these two issues of Protocol No. 12 and of the Framework Convention are subjects which, in the end, come into the political debate only from outside, because an external entity such as the Council of Europe or a Universal Periodic Review of the United Nations forces us to devote attention to them. We all know that this may not move right away. This is a shame because, even if everything does not depend on the federal level, we have an interesting configuration, with a majority that has its faults and qualities – but that does not have nationalist parties, that does not have a reform of the state on fire, that could move in a way disconnected from any community agenda – and a major personality like yours, coming from the periphery in addition. Despite all this, we are blocked – even if it is not your fault – in a game that prevents us from giving satisfaction on these two texts. This is a bit of a shame, even if it is a criticism that is addressed to the entire Belgian political class in general. Thank you, however, for your complete answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u84	Madam President, Minister, I have often referred to my written questions, but in this case I would like to ask my question. This subject, which is important to me, is an issue in terms of democracy, regardless of the number of people targeted. I am also troubled by the attitude of some members of the government. You are not at issue here, Madam Minister, since the last time I asked you about this, you had expressed your personal point of view by going away from the notes that had been written to help you answer my questions. It had touched me a lot, just as it affected all those who are directly or indirectly affected by this problem. I come back to you about the pensions that were granted to former military collaborators during the Second World War. The answer you gave me at the previous sitting seemed very positive and very encouraging. On that occasion, you told us that you were going to meet with your colleagues to coordinate a strategy on this issue. You also informed us of your agreement with the request of the Minister of Finance to his Dutch counterpart to obtain the well-known list of German pension recipients and the desire of the Minister of Justice to move forward on the issue of the communication of the list of convicted persons for acts of cooperation to the authorities of North Rhine-Westphalia so that the persons concerned would no longer benefit from these pensions. I would also remind you that your colleague, the Secretary of State for Scientific Policy, Thomas Dermine, has committed himself to setting up, pursuant to the parliamentary resolution, a bilateral scientific committee to map all allocations. As a reminder, during the previous parliamentary term, the House adopted a resolution aimed at clarifying and repealing the pension scheme granted to former Belgian military collaborators of the German socialist national regime during the Second World War. This Parliament therefore wants to act. Minister, almost two months after your previous answer, can you let us know where the various elements of this file are?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u85	Madam President, Madam Minister, the issue I want to ask you about is very important. As you know, on 14 March 2019, our Parliament adopted a motion for a resolution to clarify and repeal the pension scheme still granted to former employees of the German socialist national regime during the Second World War. This resolution contained a series of measures for the government, but also a commitment from Parliament to set up a scientific committee to draw up a list of those beneficiaries of a pension in Belgium. I therefore made a request to the Speaker of the House, who informed me that she had decided at the Conference of Presidents on 17 March that the conditions for the establishment of this committee had not been met. It considers that "the initiative must come either from the German federal government or from the authorities of North Rhine-Westphalia". I replied that the file was blocked at the German level. That is one of the answers you have given us in committee. The Bundestag did not obtain a parliamentary majority in favour of setting up this scientific committee. It is therefore up to the Belgian authorities to take over. She then proposed that I wait for your government to report to Parliament on the progress of this issue. However, apart from the commitment made on 3 February by the Minister of Justice, to communicate, as requested by the resolution, to the authorities of North Rhine-Westphalia, the data of persons who have been convicted in Belgium for acts of collaboration, the file has been blocked for more than two years now. Minister, what is the government's concrete progress on this issue? You were talking about defining an approach with your colleagues in Finance, Budget, and Science Policy. What is she? How do you allocate the tasks in this file? Could an intergovernmental agreement establish this committee take place? Without the approval of the Bundestag, would German legislation permit this? Does your government intend, if the blockage with the German Federal Parliament persists, to set up this committee at Belgian national level? Finally, you said you were in regular contact with the German authorities regarding this case. Did you ask them if they were willing to provide us with the same information as was sent to the Dutch authorities on the basis of Article 4(1) of the European Regulation on administrative assistance? And if not, what would prevent you from doing the same thing today?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. In this regard, I can tell you a number of things. We had discussed this issue on 22 March and, as I indicated, I am following this issue closely. Not only did I tell you how you feel about it, but I also shared it. It was enough to refer the file from one minister to the other and examine what was concretely feasible and what steps should be taken. I therefore immediately instructed the services of the SPF Foreign Affairs to examine the various avenues for obtaining more information from the German authorities on the beneficiaries of pensions. I also raised the issue with my German counterpart, Heiko Maas, during his visit to Brussels on 23 March. This allowed me to insist on the importance of this issue, its sensitivity. I have also drawn his attention to the resolution adopted by Parliament on this subject, and I believe that I am also convinced of my determination to move forward on this issue. In addition, our Embassy in Berlin continues to enquire about the status of this issue and the possibility of obtaining more information on the profile of beneficiaries. At Belgian level, consultations have recently taken place between the departments of the Ministry of Finance, Justice, the Secretary of State for Scientific Policy and the various administrations to discuss possible solutions. A first meeting was organized jointly by my firm and the Scientific Policy Office on 25 March. During this meeting, it was agreed that the work would be coordinated at the Foreign Affairs level for the reasons that I explained to you at the meeting on 2 March and that I would remind you today. If this coordination were to take place in Foreign Affairs, the three avenues of solution would obviously be examined by the relevant cabinets. A second meeting was held on 29 April, again at the initiative of my firm to continue the work. We will explore three avenues in consultation with the ministers concerned. First, the Minister of Finance is interested in the use of channels for the exchange of tax information, with a view to obtaining more details on the beneficiaries of these pensions. As a matter of fact, I should like to inform you that this is the path followed by the Dutch authorities in similar cases. Secondly, we envisage the possibility of an exchange of information with the German authorities on the basis of data relating to individuals convicted in Belgium for acts of collaboration with the enemy. In this case, the Department of Justice services are responsible for the digitized update of this list. Finally, we are considering the possibility of setting up a scientific committee to examine this dossier in consultation with German researchers. The Secretary of State for Scientific Policy, Thomas Dermine, has taken this lead into consideration. You have spoken about it yourself, as the reactions that followed show. These three avenues require the assistance of the German authorities, without which we cannot achieve the desired objective. So far, they have not responded positively to the requests for the transmission of information that we have submitted to them. For my part, I am continuing my dialogue with them with a view to finding a solution that can be suitable for all parties. It is not simple, but you can see that our attitude is determined in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u87	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I believe in your unwavering determination, but I am not convinced that it is shared by everyone. Moreover, the solutions that you have drawn are those that several colleagues and I have already indicated to the various ministers in charge of the matter and that you are coordinating because you have been willing to take care of them - which I thank you for. As such, I would like you to remind your colleagues - with kindness, but firmness, as usual - that the deadlines should be characterised by their rigour, so that a timetable is set for obtaining answers to attempts to request information. Thanks to parliamentary work, we have indicated that, like the Dutch authorities, it is possible to obtain tax information from Germany. The finance minister, your colleague Van Peteghem, really needs to plunge his hands into the mess and ask the questions, as has been done in the Netherlands, and we will make significant progress on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u88	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. If we have asked you about this, it is because we urgently need to put an end to this system. However, I would like to point out that in 2019 there were 14 beneficiaries of this scheme; today they would be only 9. I would really like to avoid that this scheme ceases to exist simply because these beneficiaries would all have died in the meantime. What is needed is to put an end to it because there is a political will to do so. I mean, in this respect, you have a certain determination and you have taken matters into your own hands by coordinating the work that must be done by you, but also by your colleagues. That is very good, except that the avenues explored are already mentioned in the resolution we voted on two years ago. Therefore, it has been two years since we know very well what needs to be done to put an end to this unacceptable regime, which aims to reward people who have collaborated and carried arms against their own country. Today, as you have said, these leads are blocked because they require the cooperation - as you have said - of the German authorities. The problem is that the German government is going to fall behind the German Data Protection Act, which would allegedly not allow the sharing of data that could lead to the identification of the data subjects. However, this law did not prevent the Dutch Government from obtaining this information. So there's something I'm missing in the sense that the Dutch government was able to get the amount and the beneficiaries of the pensions for everything from 2015 to 2019, but not Belgium. I therefore think that we could very well proceed with this cross-checking of data by continuing our work of diplomacy and bilateral relations. If we really can't do this, there is one option that you didn't explain earlier, namely a scientific committee that would be set up, not at the bilateral level of Belgo-German but at the level of Belgo-Belgian. The working methods of this committee are also mentioned. I therefore hope that the colleagues who supported the resolution at the time will support me in the Conference of Presidents when I again ask the President of the House to set up this committee, because unfortunately we are facing a blockage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u89	Madam Minister, the situation in Palestine linked to the covid-19 epidemic and Israel's refusal to fulfil its obligations as an occupying Power under the Fourth Geneva Convention and to deliver the doses necessary for vaccination in those territories is intolerable, and even incomprehensible because it endangers the Israelis themselves, given the interdependence between the two populations. So far, Israel has supplied only 2,000 doses to the Palestinian Authority. Today, the virus is increasing in the Palestinian territories. Madam Minister, does Belgium well defend the inclusion of these populations in the Israeli vaccination strategy? What steps are being taken at both bilateral and European level to ensure that Israel complies with its obligations? Another theme is enterprises active in Israeli settlements. In February of last year, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner had established a database of the societies involved in the settlement process, with the aim of raising awareness among companies of the need to respect human rights and disengage from settlements. The aim was to ensure that this inventory was more than just a "black list", the challenge now being to supplement and update it regularly so that Belgian and European companies were not involved in settlement processes. What measures are being taken by Belgium to support the updating of the database? How long can we expect it to be? Should we not consider revising the common messages - the first ones expressed in 2014 - to include a reference to this census? Last topic: differentiation between bilateral treaties signed with Israel. I recall that Security Council resolution 2334 requires States to distinguish between Israeli national territory and settlements in their bilateral relations with the Hebrew State. As far as our country is concerned, the differentiation tracker of the pan-European think-tank ECFR, which lists agreements that do not contain specific clauses of differentiation, identifies several texts, including the Convention on Social Security between the Kingdom of Belgium and the State of Israel concluded in 2014 and in force since 2017. In Switzerland, a couple of settlers from East Jerusalem were recently denied a refund of tax sought on the basis of an agreement between the Swiss Confederation and Israel to avoid double taxation. The reason given was that their address was outside the borders as recognized by Switzerland. This important decision could serve as an example of good practice for many States that have negotiated such treaties with Israel. In recent years, several countries have made it very clear, most often in response to parliamentary questions, that their bilateral agreements do not apply in the occupied areas. This was particularly the case in the Netherlands, Ireland and France. Madam Minister, as I have just pointed out in the second issue, the government agreement provides for a deepening of the policy of differentiation. This is a very clear achievement. I would therefore like to ask you what Belgium could implement, or implement, so that the Convention on Social Security and other texts signed with Israel do not benefit Belgian nationals living in the settlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u90	Madam President, I am not going to repeat the questions already asked. I also had four questions, minister. The first concerns Sheikh Jarrah, East Jerusalem neighbourhood. Under international law, East Jerusalem is divided into a Palestinian and Israeli city, but this is not the case in reality, as we know. For several weeks, the Israeli government's planned expulsion of Palestinian residents from the neighbourhood has been widely publicized. A little history: Palestinians settled in this area in 1956 in exchange for the revocation of their refugee status, following an agreement between Jordan and the United Nations. They should have received a title to property, but they have been waiting for him for more than sixty years. Today, the Israeli authorities threaten to expel them because they do not have title to property, which was the subject of an agreement with the United Nations at the time. For several weeks, a new expulsion has been scheduled. An international campaign on social media SaveSheikhJarrah has made it possible to publicize this new situation of injustice. It is interesting to note the difference in treatment experienced by Palestinian residents in this neighbourhood compared to the Israeli authorities' support for the perfectly illegal settlement of settlers in the Palestinian territories. This once again illustrates what an increasing number of NGOs such as Human Rights Watch denounces, namely, a criminal policy of apartheid applied to Palestinians living in occupied territories such as East Jerusalem and elsewhere. Minister, what is the Belgian government's analysis of the expulsion of Palestinian residents from the Sheikh Jarrah neighbourhood? How will Belgium support residents threatened with deportation to the Israeli authorities? According to the analyses of several Israeli NGOs, such as B的Tselem and Yesh Din, and many other international organisations, does Belgium envisage officially denouncing the situation on the ground as characteristic of a crime of apartheid? Let me turn to my second question concerning the fragmentation of the Palestinian territories. My colleague Ben Achour has already mentioned some points, so I would like to ask you my questions immediately. Minister, how is Belgium involved in defending the freedom of movement of Palestinians within the Palestinian territories recognized by international law? At what point will Belgium consider the situation on the ground to be an annexation? It is known that the Israeli Prime Minister had announced a future annexation that did not officially take place. On the ground, however, we can see that this is the case. In accordance with the government agreement and the resolution adopted by Parliament in June 2020, what countermeasures are currently envisaged? As for my third question concerning the application of the policy of differentiation, my colleague Ben Achour has said everything. Finally, my last question concerns the database of enterprises active in colonization. Belgium has played a very important role in the past. Mr. Reynders and Mr. Goffin pushed for a list of companies involved in colonization to be published at the United Nations level. It is a fundamental tool for identifying enterprises that are complicit in violations of international law and for encouraging them to change their strategy and economic policy. However, this database has no longer been updated since its publication. It is therefore likely to quickly become obsolete and unnecessary. Minister, what is your assessment of the publication of this database on the activities of Belgian and foreign companies in Israeli settlements? How does Belgium monitor this database? Are you in favour of updating it? If so, does Belgium intend to plead with the United Nations for its updating?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you will recall that I have already spoken on a number of occasions about the situation in the occupied Palestinian territories, in particular during a topical debate on 2 March last, but also about the questions that have been put to me in this committee since last November. As usual, I will answer in a comprehensive manner because these questions are closely linked to each other and because they highlight the main issues that are at stake in Palestine. You know the importance Belgium attaches to resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, which must be done through a negotiated process, on the basis of agreed parameters of international law and relevant Security Council resolutions. The two-state solution based on the 1967 lines with Jerusalem as the capital of these two States remains, to date, the only just and equitable solution. It is also the only solution that takes into account the legitimate aspirations of both sides and can contribute to the achievement of a comprehensive, just and lasting peace. As I have already stated several times in this committee, the corollary of our commitment to the two-State solution is to preserve its feasibility and viability pending the resumption of a credible negotiation process. We therefore continue to denounce any unilateral act by the parties that could undermine the feasibility of the two-State solution. I share your concern about the fragmentation of the Palestinian territories. It is the direct consequence of the establishment of new colonies. It has very serious consequences in terms of freedom of movement – an immediate challenge – but also of the viability of the territorial contiguity of the future Palestinian State. The current situation was an infringement of the human rights of Palestinians and constituted a violation of international law. Belgium and its partners have participated in several initiatives to condemn colonization and to convey two very clear messages in this regard to the Israeli authorities at several levels. At the bilateral level, my services met with Israel's ambassador on 9 April, particularly on colonization and its impact in terms of human rights and international humanitarian law. On 19 April 2021, our embassy in Tel Aviv took part in a visit to the National Security Council for International Affairs, which is attached directly to the Israeli Prime Minister's office. The aim of this approach was to convey our deep concern at the progress of construction projects in Har 'Homa and more generally in the West Bank and East Jerusalem. In this approach, particular emphasis was placed on the significant progress of settlement-related infrastructure in the West Bank and East Jerusalem, such as the extension of Highway 4370 and the Fabric of Life road, as well as on the new master plan for road development projects, water, gas, electricity. Within the Council of the European Union, Belgium is actively contributing to putting this item on the agenda by initiating discussions at 27, encouraging a clear and public European position on the subject. At the United Nations, Belgium regularly emphasizes the importance of the freedom of movement of Palestinians. This is also reflected in the resolution of the General Assembly of December 2020 entitled "Israeli practices affecting the human rights of Palestinians in the Occupied Palestinian Territories, including East Jerusalem", for which Belgium voted favourably. The need for guarantees for the freedom of movement of persons and goods within the Palestinian territory is reiterated. Israel is also called upon to cease the prohibition of prolonged closures, as well as economic and movement restrictions, including the blockade of Gaza. Your concern is certainly ours. I also share your concern about the planned eviction of Palestinian residents in Sheikh Jarrah in East Jerusalem but also in other areas around the old city. The Belgian Consulate General in Jerusalem is following the matter very closely and reports regularly to us. The Consulate-General in Sheikh Jarrah, in the immediate vicinity of families affected by these deportation orders, visited one of these families in order to show their support. On 21 April, my services met with several Belgian and Palestinian NGOs on the subject, as well as with the representative of a family directly affected by these evictions. These unilateral actions are illegal under international law and fuel the already strong tensions in Jerusalem, as evidenced by the violent clashes of recent days. Beyond the terrible human consequences for the families concerned, these evictions also contribute to affecting the Palestinian character of the city and seriously undermine the possibility of Jerusalem becoming the future capital of the two States. On 22 April, the issue of expulsions to East Jerusalem was also addressed in the United Nations Security Council by the European Union and by Belgium, in its capacity as a former member of the Council, in a joint statement at the end of that meeting with Estonia, France, Ireland and Germany. Beyond diplomatic efforts, how can we prevent colonization? The issue of differentiation has already been addressed here, and I agree with you on the need to strengthen its implementation at different levels. At bilateral level, the implementation of the policy of differentiation is imperfect throughout Belgium, as in other Member States, and deserves further consideration. It is also an explicit commitment of the government. So I instructed my services to work on a set of operational proposals. This will concern both the labelling practices of products from the colonies and the implementation of bilateral agreements in the context of compliance with the territorial clause. I cannot answer you more precisely at this point. With regard to social security conventions, I invite you to address my colleague, Minister for Social Affairs and Public Health. At the same time, my services are already in dialogue with a number of European partners known as "like-minded" in order to identify ways of strengthening the policy of differentiation at the level of the European Union and its Member States, including possible updating of the common messages. I will come back to you later on, after the discussions have been concluded. As regards more specifically the database of enterprises active in colonization, published by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner, there is no Belgian company in the database and I am not aware of any Belgian companies which have economically established themselves in the colonies since its publication. As you know, Dexia Bank withdrew from Dexia Israel Bank in 2018. You also mention the possibility of regular updating of this list of companies. Since then, we have found that there has been no evolution in this regard. I would like to remind you that Belgium has supported the High Commissioner in carrying out her mandate independently, and we will continue to do so. Let me turn to the question of the covid-19 epidemic in Palestine. As at 29 April, there were 22,573 positive people throughout the Palestinian territory out of a total of 324,442 cases detected since the outbreak of the pandemic. And while the rate of infection has declined in the West Bank, the rate of hospitalization remains high. Intensive care units reach their limit: 83% occupancy of beds. The situation is more alarming than the figures suggest. This is due to the predominance of the British variant that affects younger people. Public health, including vaccination, is the responsibility of the Palestinian Authority under the 1995 Oslo Interim Agreement, in accordance with Article 17 of Annex 3. We know that there is an Israeli offer, but we did not have access to the terms of the negotiations between the two parties. According to my services, there were several obstacles to be overcome, including the price of the vaccine unit and logistical conditions of implementation. That is why the Palestinian Authority opted for the VOCAX mechanism, which was most accessible at that time. Of course, we are talking about December 2020, when vaccination had not yet started. If the Palestinian Authority was ultimately unable to provide vaccines to its people, Israel would be responsible for that, in accordance with international humanitarian law. Indeed, Israel must ensure the health well-being of the population under occupation, as stipulated by UN human rights experts on several occasions. A total of 253,937 people were vaccinated in Palestinian territory, 217,441 in the West Bank and 37,496 in Gaza. These figures represent about 5 per cent of the total Palestinian population and 8 per cent of those targeted by vaccination. Among those immunized, there were 110,000 Palestinians with a permit to enter Israel who had been vaccinated by Israel. This is a positive development that needs to be noted, as well as Israeli support for vaccination for part of the Palestinian health-care staff. In view of the continuing threat posed by the covid-19 throughout the region, Belgium and the European Union called for greater coordination between the Israeli and Palestinian authorities in order to effectively stem the pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u92	Minister, thank you for your answers. We return regularly to the committee and this will not surprise you that we are committed to continuing to do so because there is a worrying development in the situation on the ground that warrants regular interventions and contacts with you. I believe that Belgium has a role to play in getting the European Union out of this position (...). We sometimes have the impression that it is difficult for us to move from speech to action and to adapt our position to developments in the situation on the ground and to what should be called a radicalisation of Israeli positions. There is a form of impunity that has developed. As a result, we now need to adjust and adapt our positioning more firmly. I am pleased to hear that you have asked your services to work on the issue of differentiation, with very concrete elements. I hope that the debate will come to Parliament in a fairly short time, with maximum ambition. As far as social security is concerned, I will question the competent minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u93	Minister, thank you for your answers. We feel like we're doing a remake of "One Day Without Ends" with Bill Murray but, unfortunately, we're not responsible, it's the situation on the ground that is. I agree with you that for all the activists of a just and lasting peace in the Middle East, the situation is tiring and repetitive. Too few initiatives are taken at the international and European levels to finally stop this story and that the Israeli government, guilty of occupation under international law, changes its shoulder rifle. It was agreed that, in case of annexation, a series of countermeasures would be put in place. I'm worried that de facto annexation is a reality. The wall, which was found to be illegal in 2004, continues to travel and build in the West Bank. Bedouin villages are destroyed daily in the Jordan Valley and I could multiply the examples. When will annexation be considered a reality and activate a series of countermeasures to signal to the Israeli government that its policy is illegal? Thank you for the announcement of the Consulate General, who visited the families of Sheikh Jarrah. This is an excellent initiative. I would also like to thank you for the work you have begun in the area of differentiation policy. It's one thing to do, maybe not the only one. It is really time to have a firmer position, not for one side or the other, but for respect for international law in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u94	Madam President, Ms Ponthier, in the context of the One-China policy, Belgium is in favour of Taiwan's participation in the technical work of specialised international organisations in the multilateral field, if it promotes their functioning and the agenda serves the global interest. That is the concept of meaningful participation. The concrete modalities of Taiwanese participation should be discussed between China and Taiwan. Our country calls on both sides to find pragmatic solutions. Within the World Health Organisation, associations, NGOs and territories that are not sovereign states can enjoy observer status in the womb of the World Health Assembly, the WHA. Taiwan participated in the WHA as an observer from 2009 to 2016, with the agreement of China. I note that China has not approved Taiwan's request to be admitted as an observer since then. In the context of the current unseen pandemic, Belgium is advocating a WHO approach that no one leaves behind and is inclusive. Our country believes that it is more essential than ever for cooperation within the WTO to be as efficient and transparent as possible. Based on Taiwan's experience in the management of pandemics and other public health challenges, our country considers it appropriate that Taiwan be invited to the next WHA as an observer. My services are in contact with the relevant authorities in this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u95	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. You state in your reply that the concept of meaningful participation is important and that it is therefore also appropriate for Taiwan to be fully part of the WHA in May and also of the WTO meetings. You know that a number of Members of our group have recently received a letter of support from Jerry Chen, the first secretary of the Taipei Representative Office in the EU and Belgium. That letter was written on behalf of the Taiwanese Ambassador to the EU, Ming-Yen Tsai, and it is also addressed to the Director-General of the WHO. In that letter, Mr Chen specifically asked that the European Parliament and the national parliaments should express their support for this call. I am pleased to hear that you support this call, but I would also like you to do so in the public and to follow up on it. I do not know if you have received the letter yourself, but I suspect you have, because we as Members of Parliament have received it. I do not know to what extent you will have specific discussions on this and how you will express your views in the public. It is very important for Taiwan to get that support. Last year, we endorsed this in a motion for a resolution tabled by my party and by the majority of the parties. It is important that the proposals contained in the resolution are not only translated into words, but also into action. I am counting on your continued pressure on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u96	Mrs Van Bossuyt, the European Commission does not propose to be able to finance debts directly to third countries. The Montenegrin government has not addressed this country directly, but our diplomatic post has reported on it. However, rather than taking over the debt directly, Montenegro needs support from the Commission for diversifying debt through the international financial institutions. The European Commission is working with international financial institutions in the framework of various economic cooperation instruments for the Western Balkans, such as the Western Balkans Economic and Investment Plan of 2020, the Sofia Priority Agenda of 2018 and the European contributions to the regional agenda for interconnectivity, the so-called Berlin process. Such a high level of indebtedness effectively threatens to remove a great deal of policy space for reforms for EU integration. The road construction programme in question is part of the broader framework of the 17+1 agreement that China concluded with a number of European countries under the Belt and Road Initiative. Both certain Member States and most of the EU's candidate countries are involved. According to the prevailing EU strategy, China is both a partner and a competitor and a symmetrical rival, which also applies to China's relationship with candidate countries. In some areas, Beijing will be able to contribute positively to the development of these countries, but when it comes to practices that go against EU standards and values, the Union must clearly respond to them. The framework of the accession process provides the necessary procedures and levers for this purpose. However, the EU acquis and the rules on public procurement cannot impose a strict ban on such programmes which are based on legally binding intergovernmental agreements. However, one can demand that they be implemented in accordance with European standards on safety and environment, among other things.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u97	Madam Minister, I can see from your answer that we are not in any way encouraging such matters. In any case, we must pay attention to Chinese investment in the European Union, as geopolitical motives are often behind this. However, I have also understood that the government will take initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u98	Mrs Van Bossuyt, our services in Brussels and Seoul are indeed in contact with the Korean authorities as a result of the incident. The departments of the department are also in permanent contact with the Belgian ambassador himself. I personally had the opportunity to bring up the incident during my meeting with the Korean Trade Minister and to express my sincere regret for the incident. I repeated that our ambassador's wife would cooperate with the police in the ongoing investigation. The Minister thanked me and reminded me of the strong links that have existed between the two countries for 120 years. As you mentioned, the Belgian ambassador, on behalf of his wife, who was hospitalized last week, has sincerely apologized and promised the full cooperation of his wife in the ongoing police investigation. I now await the results of the police investigation and do not wish to prejudge its conclusion at the moment. Neither is the question of the ambassador's accreditation. The ties between Korea and Belgium are very close. As I mentioned earlier, we are celebrating 120 years of diplomatic relations in 2021. Important milestones in this close friendship are the recognition of the Republic of Korea by Belgium as the first country in 1949 and the Belgian decision a few years later to defend the young state with more than 3,000 Belgian soldiers during the Korean war. In 2019 King Filip and Queen Mathilde paid a very successful state visit to Korea. On that strong basis, we hope to be able to continue the excellent relations with Korea. That wish was also expressed by the Korean Minister during our discussion. Finally, Belgian diplomats abroad fulfil a representative role and are aware of the responsibilities associated with them and their families.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u99	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u100	There are connection issues. They're general and not just for the Foreign Affairs Committee with Zoom. Mrs. Van Bossuyt, we hear you in pieces. A reply is thus impossible. I am therefore obliged to move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u101	Mrs Samyn, at the United Nations Economic and Social Council plenary session on 20 April, elections were indeed held for various subsidiary bodies of ECOSOC. Our country is not currently a member of ECOSOC. Consequently, Belgium did not have the right to vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u102	Madam Minister, international criticism has been made of Iran's accession to the UN Women's Rights Commission. We have just talked about how Iran deals with political prisoners and human rights in relation to the Djalali case. So it is not surprising that the country has very little with women's rights. Women often do not have the right to choose their husbands, child marriages are allowed, education for women is not self-evident, they do not have the right to divorce or custody of their children, they are not or hardly protected from violence. These are just a few examples of the terrible oppression Iranian women must undergo. A country which does not guarantee women's rights at all and which is elected to the UN Women's Rights Commission is a blow to the face of all those oppressed women.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u103	Paul Rusesabagina's situation is still being closely monitored, both in Brussels and in Kigali. We have taken numerous steps at different levels. This situation enjoys my full attention. This topic was central to my meeting with my Rwandan counterpart on April 26, 2021. Paul Rusesabagina continues to receive full consular assistance. A fifth consular visit took place on 19 March 2021. On 16 April 2021 there was an additional telephone call with our consul in Kigali. At this stage, the Rwandan government has authorised all requested consular visits. As for its course, you will understand that I cannot go into detail on strictly personal matters, out of respect for Mr Rusesabagina's privacy. With regard to his state of health, I would like to point out that after my conversation with my Rwandan counterpart on 4 February last, the treating doctors in Kigali and Brussels were put in contact. It is true that Belgium sent medicines through the diplomatic bag and that they were handed over by our embassy to Mr. Rusesabagina during the first consular visit in early September. I am not able to confirm or deny that the drugs he receives daily in prison are those. I believe that these two elements illustrate in any case that Belgium attaches all the necessary importance to this aspect of consular assistance. Finally, on 9 February, Mr. Rusesabagina made an extremely comprehensive medical visit to King Faisal Hospital in Kigali. Belgium expects Rwanda to have a fair, transparent and fair trial for Paul Rusesabagina. This implies respect, without exception, for the rights of the defence, whose confidentiality of documents exchanged between an inmate and his or her lawyer is an integral part. The same applies to the time it takes to prepare its defence. I once again insisted on these points with Minister Biruta, my Rwandan counterpart, at our meeting on 26 April. He drew my attention to the follow-up to the Court's visit to prison on 5 March. Mr. Rusesabagina has now received a laptop and has permanent access to electricity in his cell. These elements are, of course, an improvement, but too late. During the meeting, I also reminded Minister Biruta that Belgium has submitted a request for a visit from Mr Rusesabagina's Belgian lawyer in the course of the legal proceedings in progress in Belgium. I was surprised that Belgium had not yet received an answer to that request and I note that Mr Rusesabagina is assisted by two lawyers registered at the Kigali Bar. They were chosen freely by him. The conditions of Mr Rusesabagina's arrival on Rwandan territory are currently being examined by the federal court. So I will not make any further comments on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u104	We do not manage to get in touch with Mr De Vriendt for his reply. I apologize, but it seems to be a general Internet problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u105	Madam Chair, I have heard the Minister's response. We are all very concerned about the fate of this gentleman. We hope that diplomatic efforts can continue to assist it indirectly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u106	Madam Secretary, I can clearly hear your concern. You have also communicated this through a press release asking him to have a fair, transparent process. You have already referred to the accessibility of his Belgian lawyer. I have already been in contact with an Rwandan parliamentarians who was visiting here at the same time as Mr Biruta. This parliamentarians also said that there must be reciprocity before the Belgian lawyer gets access. As far as the exchange of documents is concerned, they act like their noses are bleeding. However, he had been Minister of Justice. In their view, transparency is carried out on television in Rwanda. Mr Rusesabagina is no longer going there because he says that there is no point in going to trial in this way. They also say he wanted a solitary confinement himself. That is contradicted by the family and by the American side. Rwanda says they have an exchange with the Belgian doctors about the medication, including through the hospital you referred to. They don't see any problems there either. The question is what the truth is. It's hard to establish that from here. However, a track record has been established by the Human Rights Council that Rwanda easily conducts politically motivated processes, that there is arbitrary detention, that the rights of the defence are not respected and that there is inhumane treatment. Nor have the UN conventions in this area been signed. That's why we're worried. This is also confirmed by the American Bar Association and the American Embassy, which we visited last week. These elements mean that this must be monitored closely, including for the future. We also need to see whether we should not take any further steps. In a resolution I advocated the possibility of extradition to Belgium if he does not have access to his documents. I am not talking about guilt or innocence, this is about justice and justice. All the basic rules of law in a rule of law that apply state that one is innocent until proven guilty. However, I have the impression that the blame has already been established in advance. This is evident from the statements made by various ministers and the President. That's something to worry about. He is also of Belgian nationality, and in Rwanda they say he is also of Rwandan nationality. It remains an element of concern that we will follow closely. We're certainly asking you to do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u107	Debates of the European Parliament 55016880C of myself is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u108	Mr De Smet, as you indicated, on 20 and 21 April this year the constructive dialogue was held between Belgium and the Committee against Racial Discrimination, which monitors compliance with the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. During this 4-hour virtual dialogue, the 18 independent experts of the Committee asked the Belgian delegation several questions on a wide variety of topics, based on our national report and those of civil society. Our delegation was made up of representatives of all federal and federal authorities responsible for equal opportunities - whose treatment is mixed in our federal state. One of the members of the Committee had asked a question about the mandate of the new Federal Institute for Human Rights. The competent Belgian authorities replied in the meeting. To the extent that this body falls within the prerogatives of the Minister of Justice, I invite you to ask him about this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic458x.u109	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. My party had already intervened under the previous legislatures to demand the creation of such bodies. Clearly, international bodies are updating the shortcomings of our legislation - justified by the Flemish Region's only attitude, once again. These shortcomings are all the more serious as we have far exceeded the reasonable time limit to comply with the Anti-Discrimination Act more than 14 years after its adoption. I understand that the follow-up to this legislation does not depend on your powers, but on those of the Minister of Justice. We will therefore of course ask him the question. Having said that, this problem concerns you a little, because I fear that our country's reputation in international forums will be undermined by this session in CERD. Thank you, however.
