ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting can only last until 3.30 p.m., so we will try to work efficiently, but if there are a lot of questions left, we will try to organise an additional meeting in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u2	Madam Secretary of State, it is good that we have a topical debate on this issue today, because climate change is a fact. It is true that the federal government wants to do everything it can to minimise the impact of the changes by taking ambitious climate action, but we must also take into account many periods of drought on the one hand and periods of flooding caused by heavy rains on the other. It starts by being aware of the consequences of climate change, but we must not abandon people who have been affected at the moment. You know the problem of the houses that are tearing through shrinking clay soils, especially in South-West Flanders and South-East Flanders. You jumped right in front of the problem and want to go along with the insurance sector to find a solution. At that time, you spoke of a possible legal amendment, of recognition of the problems of natural disasters or of a solution more tailored to the region affected. However, I fear that the latter option will not be sufficiently proactive, because the problem has already arisen in regions with clay soils, as the Pano reportage on One showed. I have a few questions about this, Madam Secretary of State. Do you have any data on the extent of the problem? What position does Assuralia, the professional insurance association, take on this? Are they willing to cooperate? What are the next steps you will take in the file? Do you think it would be feasible to work out an appropriate solution before this summer? Will you see to it that the victims can be paid quickly? The problem also arises in clay soil. Will you take that into account? Finally, is the exercise extended? Do you also consider with insurance companies other effects that may arise as a result of climate change?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, Mrs Buyst has already introduced the situation very well, so I shall confine myself to my questions. You stated that you were sitting with Assuralia on 4 January on the issue. Can you tell us the results of that conversation? You indicated that there are two possible solutions: on the one hand, soil reduction can be mandatory in any policy, with the result that the premium will be higher for everyone, on the other hand, soil problems can be identified in detail and can then be examined on the basis of those maps where additional premiums should be requested. Which solution do you think is the best and can you also explain why? Are there certain areas in Belgium where extreme drought does not affect the soil and consequently the structure of a dwelling? Is there an incorrect interpretation within the insurance sector of what is meant by ground subsidence or shift? I can understand that there are frequent reports of damage to houses built on a rock structure in Wallonia. How do insurers deal with these kinds of damages? Finally, is there any evidence of damage caused by climatic effects where the damage could be interpreted? If so, which one? Can you explain those damages?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u4	Mrs Muylle is not present to ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u5	I would like to refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u6	Madam Secretary of State, the problem has already been outlined very well by the previous speakers. We can also all recall the recent Pano report, in which we saw the effects of groundwater extraction on families facing cracks in their homes. You stated in De Oordend op Radio 1 that there are two possible solutions: either to include soil reduction in each insurance policy or to map the soil problems in detail, and then to look at where additional premiums should be paid on the basis of the map. In your opinion, the possibility of adapting construction regulations in the affected regions should also be considered. Most of the time, these additional building regulations almost guarantee additional costs, which citizens would have to incur in order to achieve their home. At the same time, I believe that it opens the door to the continuation of mass groundwater extraction. I therefore have the following questions. Firstly, drought is a thorny issue which we will only be confronted with more and more in the coming years. Do you not think that it would be better to work on a regulation, to better detect and punish the illegal pumping of water? Secondly, are you planning a consultation with regional ministers to identify and effectively address the problem of mass and often illegal groundwater extraction in order to better protect our families? Finally, doesn't it sound a little strange that ordinary families who are now and in the future faced with damage to their homes are the ones who, through the solution provided, have to re-stress themselves with additional insurance premiums and stricter building regulations? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u7	Madam Secretary of State, our country is sometimes hit by natural disasters (floods, storms, hail, etc.) which can cause considerable material damage. Since the law of 17 September 2005, the legislation provides that the fire insurance contract also covers damage caused by a natural disaster. However, with regard to drought, there is a legal uncertainty that allows insurers to make several interpretations of drought in order not to compensate their customers. Several accounts have come back to me: they are owners who have seen cracks in their homes, due to repeated droughts, and who regret that the insurers "open the umbrella" saying that this does not fit into the coverage of the home insurance which must cover natural disasters. Madam Secretary of State, have there been any complaints related to this issue at the level of the FPS Economy or the Insurance Ombudsman? Do you have any elements to objectify the extent of this problem? Are you considering amending the Insurance Act of 4 April 2014 to clarify the issue of drought in natural disasters?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the Members who have asked questions about this. It is clear that this subject concerns everyone, which is normal as it affects families. The reduction of soil due to drought is currently considered by Assuralia to be a landslide or soil degradation only if there is movement of an important mass of the soil layer, which destroys or damages goods and is wholly or partly due to a natural phenomenon, other than a flood or an earthquake. Article 124, § 1, d of the Insurance Act of 4 April 2014 contains the current legal text on the natural disaster "land shift or soil degradation'. The guarantee of natural disasters covers the landslide or soil degradation when it comes to a movement of an important mass of the soil layer, which destroys or damages goods, which is wholly or partly due to a natural phenomenon not caused by a flood or earthquake. The legal definition of landslides and soil degradations is not very clear in practice. Neither the word movement nor the concept of important mass are further defined. Let me now give you the arguments put forward by consumers and insurers. Consumers argue that the legal guarantee plays because the land is moving and this is due to a natural phenomenon, causing damage. They refer to the text of Article 124 (1) (d) and to the policy conditions of their insurer, which has mostly taken over the wording of this legal text in its entirety. The insurers reject the declaration because there is no disappearance of the earth, even though it is in the event of a landslide or a sinking of the earth. In the case of ink-linking, there is a subsidence in the sense of a movement of an important mass of the soil layer. However, there is a change in the volume of the substrate. The Insurance Ombudsman states in his 2019 Annual Report that requests for intervention received in the same year are increasingly related to damage resulting from a drought-induced contraction of soil and clay. Objectiveing this problem would require mapping and statistical information. The Insurance Ombudsman received 26 complaints from consumers who did not agree with the insurer's rejection of coverage since 2017. In 2017 it was about 2 files setting damage, in 2018 8 files, in 2019 7 files, in 2020 7 files and in 2021 there are already 2 files for setting damage. We have commissioned the FPS Economy to make a legal analysis of the current legislation because the case law is currently very different. According to an initial analysis, the judgment of the Court of First Instance in Namur of 2014 and the judgment of the Court of Appeal of Liège of 10 May 2016 show that this case is not covered by the insurance law, whereas the judgments of 20 June 2017 of the Court of Appeal of Mons and of 16 March 2017 of the Court of Appeal of Ghent, as well as the judgment of 2 December 2020 of the company court of Ghent, division Kortrijk, show that these cases are subject to the law. So at least we can say that the case law does not give a clear picture. At the beginning of January, my cabinet first endorsed this problem with the insurance federation Assuralia, with a view to finding a solution to the problem. As Secretary of State, I was informed through several channels that the damage caused by this problem could be considerable for the consumer. At the end of January, I discussed the various possible solutions with Assuralia in an online consultation. In February, an inter-federal working group was also set up under Minister Dermagne to find a solution for current and future disasters. In the meantime, this working group has already met twice in plenary session. Staff from my firm participate in these consultations, as well as employees from the various regional authorities. After all, water management, tree felling, subsoil analysis and groundwater extraction are regional competencies. We also hold bilateral meetings on this subject. Assuralia also participates in the working group and cooperates with a view to developing a solution. It is too early to propose a possible solution, because the consultations have not yet been concluded. In order to be able to answer with certainty whether there are areas in Belgium where extreme drought does not affect the soil and therefore the structure of a dwelling, we must have a cartography that allows us to estimate the risks, which is not the case at the moment. However, this is a regional competence. The question of a clear cartography, based on the risk of the above mentioned problem, is raised with the Regions. On the other hand, the SPF Economy looks from a legal point of view at the extent to which drought is already included in the law and whether it needs to be adapted. There are currently some options, you have mentioned them yourself, including the following. Firstly, the inclusion of the risk in fire insurance for everyone, which, of course, means a general premium increase. Secondly, to include the risk in the premiums for the affected areas only, then there is a need for regional subsurface maps. Thirdly, reference has already been made to this point, requiring adapted construction methods by analogy with the problem of flood areas. That is a regional competence. This means strengthening the responsibility of the architect and the stability expert. No data are currently available on the amount of damage caused to buildings in recent years. Some regions talk about barely five cases on their territory. Here too, we cannot assess it, because no notifications are made and the insurance sector does not have the necessary figures, because of the lack of notifications. The number of notifications, complaints and court cases is therefore relatively low. Further research is therefore needed in order to reach a negotiated solution. Then I come to damage cases where the houses were built on a rock structure. It will be necessary to examine in detail whether there has been a landslide or a soil degradation, namely a movement of an important mass of the soil layer which destroys or damages goods and which is wholly or partly due to a natural phenomenon other than a flood or earthquake. Fire insurers are free to judge whether the situation corresponds to the legal definition, subject to the discretion of the courts and courts. However, we also see cases of fracturing buildings where there is clearly no connection to drought, landslides or earth subsidence. Sometimes this is a miscalculation of stability by the architect. His responsibility was then engaged, for it was he who prevailed at the time of construction. I am not aware of any other damage caused by climatic conditions, where such damage can be interpreted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u9	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your clear answer. First of all, you point out why it is so important that we continue to deal with this problem, and you clearly indicate that you have already taken a number of steps. In my opinion, this problem requires a two-fold approach. Firstly, we can and must make our country climate robotic. By reducing the hardening and saving time to jump with groundwater, the various governments of our country can use climate adaptation. This means that both federal and regional governments must take the necessary measures to reduce the vulnerability of human and natural systems as a result of climate change. You did not pay much attention to this in your reply, even though I think it is important to work on this. A second approach has been discussed very extensively, namely that we must not abandon the victims of the effects of climate change and that we must give them clarity. I therefore believe that it is important for the insurance sector to prepare itself for situations resulting from climate change. I am a little ahead of the question that will be raised later in the afternoon, and which, strangely enough, has not been added to this actua debate, and I would like to look with you at the example of the Netherlands, and how that country and the insurance sector there are preparing for the consequences of climate change. After all, I really think we should look at such foreign examples.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u10	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your comprehensive answer. I can understand that it is a complex problem and that there is no immediate solution. It is therefore a good thing that a working group has been set up which includes representatives of the sector and of the various levels of policy. I hope that a solution can be found quickly, because the problem will be more and more common. In this sense, I support Mrs Buyst's call for climate-adaptive measures to be taken to prevent such problems, but we must not abandon the victims who are present and to whom we cannot yet answer. I hope that, in consultation with the insurance sector, a solution will be offered to the people who are going through this, and so there will probably be even more, but at the same time we will also ensure that such a measure does not result in everyone paying a higher premium, because that cannot be the intention. I look forward to the outcome of the working group. There is no doubt that the debate on this will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. Indeed, we must try to avoid such things in the future and deal with our earth, the environment and the climate in a different way. Initiatives have already been taken at Flemish level. For example, Minister Demir has set up the Blue Deal to deal with groundwater in a different way, taking it up. There are also many initiatives on softening. So I think we are well aware of the problem. In my view, we should indeed consider those involved as victims, because their damage is considerable and runs into more than tens of thousands of euros. We must therefore help them. I find it rather odd that the existing legislation does not provide a solution to this. The current legislation was amended in 2005, incorporating natural disasters into general fire insurance. An amendment was also adopted to catalog soil degradation and landslides as natural disasters, even if they are the result of a slow and invisible process. The reduction of soil due to drought is such a slow and invisible process. So, in our view, it was already the legislator's intention in 2005 to include these phenomena in insurance. It is now being argued that a generalization of the coverage of the relevant risks through fire insurance will increase the level of premiums for everyone. However, the premium was already increased after the inclusion of natural disasters in the compulsory fire insurance, with the legislator's intention in 2005 to include the listed phenomena. Last year we tabled a proposal for an interpretative law to make it clear that the reduction in soil is covered by a slow and invisible process. In any case, we hope that it will be clear as soon as possible, both for today's victims and for tomorrow's victims. After all, the solution is available.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the answer. For me, it is important that we do not shift our focus in the debate. Above all, we must be able to tackle irresponsible groundwater extraction, even more so than the victims today or in the future, with stricter building regulations or higher insurance policies, whereas this is perhaps rather standard in fire insurance, as Mr Van Bossuyt has already said. For me, it is unthinkable for citizens to have to pay higher premiums today, because there is massive irritation and distress and deep drainage, which means that a lot of water cannot penetrate the soil. Too much work is still being done on end-of-pipe solutions. I'd like to warn you about that. On the contrary, we must be concerned not only with the victims of today's negotiations but also with prevention. We must not allow victims or future victims to bear the costs for which they are not themselves responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u13	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I hear that you are well aware of the problem and that you have initiated a working group. I also hear that you want room for consultation. I am respectful of consultation, but we realize that the insurance sector has not been very affected by this crisis – and so much the better – and that it shows very little solidarity. We see it with texts that are now on Parliament's table. It will therefore be important to put an order in place if this consultation does not lead to nothing because, in the end, consumers are too often harmed, which is not normal. We cannot leave the victims of yesterday, today and tomorrow without a solution. This work will be left to the government if the insurance sector continues to show so little understanding and solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u14	Madam Secretary of State, it is clear that attention needs to be paid to the problem, but I think it is still not that bad. The people who have fallen victim are in a very dramatic situation, but the problem is still intelligible and not yet widespread. It's a good thing the insurance business is preparing for this. In any case, the most important thing is that regional competence maps these grounds and that their general use is very carefully considered, for example in the field of groundwater extraction. If nothing can be started with certain land, it may be cheaper and if construction costs are more expensive, one can compensate for the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u15	Mrs Dierick, I have already answered a similar question in the February committee. The Economic Inspectorate and myself were informed of this complaint from the BEUC by, among other things, Test Purchase. The complaint was lodged with the European Consumer Protection Cooperation Network, or CPC network, of consumer authorities. Through the hotline, the Economic Committee did not receive any notifications against TikTok himself. Indirectly, TikTok is mentioned in notifications as the communication mode used. In application of the new CPC Regulation, this research is, in principle, coordinated by the European Commission, taking into account the European dimension of the problem referred to. Of course, the Economic Inspectorate will closely monitor this investigation and fully support it as a national consumer authority. I therefore await the outcome of this investigation. There are no evolutions to report on this for the time being. The Economic Inspectorate continues to monitor this and has also formally expressed its support for this investigation. The infringements of GDPR legislation and the restriction of access for minors concern data protection legislation, in Belgium the competence of the Data Protection Authority. We may consider controls on the age limit, but the answer to these questions belongs to the powers of Mr Michel, Secretary of State for Digitalization, responsible for Administrative Simplification, Privacy and the Directorate of Buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u16	Thank you for the information. We will then ask further questions to your colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, in the event of death, the deceased's bank accounts are blocked. However, the law provides that, in order to pay rent or energy bills, for example, the deceased's spouse may access the accounts. To do this, outside of the covid-19 pandemic period, the spouse had to come to the bank counter with the said invoices, where the payments were made. According to two letters I have received, bank counters are obviously closed or very difficult to access due to the health crisis, which places these spouses in a very difficult position. The death resulting in very special procedures because of the covid-19, the situation is even more complicated than before, especially when energy bills are high. Have you been informed of this problem? Is it possible for you to act with the banks so that they take this situation into account and that the spouses of deceased persons are not deprived of liquidity?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u18	Mr Vicar, thank you for your question. No complaints related to this problem were received by the Directorate-General of the Economic Inspectorate. The Belgian Federation of the Financial Sector (Febelfin) also did not report any specific problems in this regard. The agencies are not completely closed. It is still possible to go to the bank by making an appointment. This decision follows the Corona measures taken to combat the spread of the virus. Physical contacts should be limited and organized only when necessary. The institutions' compliance with these measures is monitored. Febelfin points out, however, that there should be no delay in the processing of applications. For the time being, it is advisable to make arrangements by telephone. If some of the agency staff actually work at home, they can handle a lot of things remotely. Consumers may also enter into supplementary agreements with their bank, for example, for the delivery of certain documents to the agency. Finally, I have asked to give the necessary priority so that there is no unreasonable delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u19	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I am surprised to be the only one who received letters about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u20	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, I will take the first two questions together. I am aware of this problem and have had contact with the publishers of the Bongobons on 2 March. Your question reached me the day after. Following complaints, the Smartbox Group gave us a more nuanced answer on how they deal with the consequences of the corona crisis. They stress that a strong and constructive relationship with their partners - hotels, restaurants and spas - is at the heart of their strategy. In this context, they have supported their partners from the start of the crisis by shortening their payment periods. They have also given consumers the opportunity to use their Bongo voucher longer, in the form of a covid guarantee. This guarantee ensures that all consumers with a voucher that is active and cannot be used because of the current crisis that voucher can exchange or extend for free as long as the crisis lasts. To enjoy this guarantee, the consumer only needs to contact their customer service. Finally, they have extended the validity of their vouchers to three years and three months to give consumers sufficient time to enjoy their experience. As far as your last question is concerned, I have made it clear to them that we will monitor the enforcement of this policy and that, if this were not done, I would expect refunds to be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u21	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, your answer does not correspond to the information received not only from us but also from Test Purchase. Smartbox Group says it wants to maintain a good relationship with its partners, which is very good, and that it will extend the period of validity of the vouchers to three years and three months. However, you also said 'as long as the covid crisis lasts'. I hope, like many people, that it will not last three years and three months. So I'm not sure if it's three years and three months or as long as the covid crisis lasts. The information we received showed that 20 euro administrative costs will be charged for this extension. I guess that information doesn't add up. However, these are the complaints that have been received at Test Purchase. Could you clarify that a little bit?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u22	I'll double-check that, but from the contact we had with them, it turned out that the voucher can be exchanged for free. That's the information we've been given. They recently extended the deadline to three years and three months. Now that I read the text back, it may not be 100% clear. I'll get back to you, and I'll get you the final details.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u23	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u24	Colleagues, that was a constructive and solution-oriented dialogue. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u25	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, influencers play an important role in our society. You have also acknowledged this by carrying out action there. I do think we should count on fair play and make clear agreements with them. Clear agreements have been announced several times in the past, but never much has happened to them. The Advertising Board then decided to make its own recommendations. I've looked at it, and it's not really a big deal. The question is simply to make that clear when advertising on social media. That is the most important question. You wanted to get more attention to this with your action, but I feel that no one knows the recommendations. No one's going to use them anyway. My question is therefore whether you intend to make these directives official, as in the United Kingdom? Being a very important target group, I think, children. I see that the rules on advertising for children and young people on radio and TV are quite strict. As far as influencers and social media are concerned, that is what the Wild West is doing. I see on TikTok funny movies of well-known influencers who enjoy advertising soft drinks, clothes and so on. I do not think that is fair and you, as a liberal, should also think that it is unfair to play the media against each other in this way. In addition, Parliament adopted a resolution in the Scientific Questions Advisory Committee on algorithms. We call on the government to pay particular attention to this vulnerable target group of children and young people. Do something with that. That is my second question. With my third question, I would like to take this opportunity to present to you a statement that some experts occasionally raise. It would be best not to advertise on social media for some products such as food supplements and medicines. I would like to hear your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u26	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I notice how many Members are apparently already on TikTok. For now, I'm not looking at that medium. I also forbid my daughter to sit on TikTok and am very happy about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u27	Mrs. Van Bossuyt, I'm not on TikTok either. I kind of feel the same way about that. First of all, I would like to stress that the law already sets the limits for advertising, including for online influencers. The book VI on market practices and consumer protection of the Economic Law Code contains rules on unfair business commercial practices vis-à-vis consumers in Article 6.93 and beyond. Online influencers that are to be considered as companies should respect the prohibition of unfair commercial practices. I would like to stress that natural persons can also be regarded as undertakings. This will not only determine direct payment by the company to the online influencer to promote products. Any form of remuneration may be taken into account in order to decide on that qualification. For example, the remuneration received by the online influencer may consist, for example, of obtaining products from the companies for which advertising is made or traveling at the expense of that company. The number of followers of the online influencer can also be taken into account. As soon as the influencer concerned pursues an economic objective in a sustainable way and thus competes with other companies, such as marketing companies, this person can be considered to be a company. It is within the limits of the prohibition of unfair commercial practices that professional online influencers are allowed to advertise. In this respect, they must, in the first instance, communicate clearly that this is a commercial message. If this is not the case, there may be a misleading commercial practice. In contrast to the fact that the law itself already sets the limits for online influencers and the law is mandatory, it states that directives are only of a non-binding nature. The recommendations on online influencers were published by the Communication Centre in October 2018. The panel on ethical practices in advertising, the JEP, ensures that these recommendations are complied with. If she receives complaints about online influencer marketing, she acts in accordance with the regulations. Where infringements are found, the JEP may request an adjustment or a cessation of the contentious advertising. The number of formal complaints files on this specific issue at JEP remains low. In 2019 the JEP dealt with 27 social media advertising files, of which 2 related to influencer marketing. In 2020, the JEP dealt with 16 social media advertising files, of which 1 related to influencer marketing, and 6 files on the recognition of commercial communications, of which 1 related to influencer marketing. In the three cases mentioned above, the JEP formulated a negative decision, which was voluntarily complied with by the advertisers and influencers concerned. In assessing a particular practice in the light of the prohibition of unfair commercial practices by the Economic Inspectorate, account should be taken, for example, of the age or gullibility of the group of consumers to whom commercial practices are addressed. Commercial practice should then be assessed from the point of view of the average member of that group. The assessment of an advertising of online influencers targeting children for the prohibition of unfair commercial practices will therefore take into account the point of view of the average member of the age group that is the target audience of that advertising. I can assure you that the checks will be monitored by the Economic Inspectorate within its competence to monitor economic legislation on the basis of continuous monitoring of any notifications at the hotline. Since 2018 the Economic Inspectorate has received 30 notifications about online influencers, of which 10 in 2021. The Economic Inspectorate may, on the basis of the notifications, investigate an influencer relying on the prohibition of misleading commercial practices. It is for this reason that we wanted to draw the attention of consumers to the fact that they can always report to the hotline. The social media world is constantly on the move. We are therefore in consultation with the sector and the Economic Inspectorate to consider how best to outline a framework for influencer marketing to apply existing legal regulations and what the challenges are. The Communities are also consulted. It is not the intention to introduce additional legal obligations but to clarify them. We are also looking at our Dutch neighbours, who have a two-fold approach with a substantive message on the one hand and an economic guideline on the other. As soon as we reach a consensus, we will inform the consumer about this and once again draw attention to misleading advertising online. The awareness campaign on misleading advertising messages online was launched on social media, on the Facebook page of the FPS Economy and on the social media channels of the influencers and some stakeholders referred to the video on their social media. After one day, the influencers together had a range of 100,000 followers. On my social media channels, LinkedIn, Facebook and Instagram, there was a range of 24,000 followers. The story of online dating which misleads consumers is certainly relevant. I have therefore raised this issue through the influencer Christophe Ramont. There was a lot of reaction via Test Purchase and the followers of the influencer. It is especially important to make people aware that if something seems too beautiful to be true, it often does. Through the campaign I wanted to show that caution is therefore absolutely necessary to deal with the risks of online dating. Moreover, many victims do not report out of shame. Therefore, the importance of the hotline is stressed. Given the speed with which the fake profiles can be created, the best solution is to raise consumer awareness of friendship fraud. Some products may already be subject to special legislation restricting advertising, for example in the case of advertising on medicines. You can, of course, ask further questions about this to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u28	I would also like to reassure Mrs Van Bossuyt, I do not have a TikTok account. However, that does not mean that I do not occasionally inform myself about what is happening there. Many parents talk to me about this and worry about it. That's not just about the commercial aspect. That might even be one of the least of the cases. It's often about suicide videos that no parent wants his child to be exposed to. Unfortunately, that'll happen. That's also about the well-being of children, the self-image that children get through these things. For me, it's a commercial thing too. I found little about the commercial aspect and children. Do something with that. Many people are counting on you to make our kids not play ball with those smart marketing guys. I understand you're saying there are appointments today. If it's very far-reaching, people will file a complaint. Corporate advertising on social media is fairly well framed. It's obvious that it's sponsored. Influencers do this very little. Perhaps few people are bothered by that, but it is a finding. I understand even better why you did that, but I fear we will still have work to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u29	My daughters forbid me to create a TikTok account. They don't think that's a grown-up thing. One can only make a fool out of it. I can't blame them on this. I'm sure I won't. I share the same concern that we should be careful with our children. You say there are guidelines, but they are non-binding. We have to ask ourselves whether they are sometimes too non-committal. Should we not do more than just tackle these directives? We need to go more to legislative work. I fully support those consumer awareness campaigns on misleading advertising, but we should not underestimate the importance of reaching the influencers. Often they are unaware of anything. Once there is a form of remuneration and the number of followers is charged, they can be considered as companies and will be subject to that legislation. A lot of young ladies price clothing, and are likely to receive some form of compensation for it, but do not realize that they are influencers at that time who are covered by that regulation. I would therefore extend the awareness campaign to those who are more influential without knowing the consequences. In any case, this theme is very close to my heart, as is the issue of dating fraud on the Internet. I've asked a lot of questions about that. Unfortunately, too often there is shame on people who have been set up. I therefore believe that we must continue to break this taboo and continue to work for it. I hope that many more campaigns will be launched to help those who are victims of it and to ensure that as few people on the Internet as possible fall into that trap.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u30	Madam Secretary of State, when you spoke of the concept of enterprise, I was a little back to my course in European economic law, from which I remember that there must be economic activity to be classified as an enterprise. I share Mrs Dierick's concern. There are very few people who realize how much influence they have on others. Just because of the influence they have, they have to comply with certain directives. This problem is still somewhat ignored. You said at a certain point that the goodness or faith of the target audience should be taken into account to determine whether there is a commercial activity. I admit that when I see public reports, it is not always clear to me whether it is advertising or not. Many people do not see the difference, let alone the young and certainly not the children. We must not underestimate the impact of social media on young people and children. My kids are both in elementary school. Especially with girls, it's unbelievable. They imitate the dances they see on TikTok even into the classroom. I think we really need to be vigilant about it. A digital, artificial world is being created, which they take for real. They see it as the real world. We need to be very vigilant about it. Mr Verduyckt said that it is often 'but' about directives. I think there should be something more compelling. We note that the directives are not being followed. So I see the hashtag @ which should be added very little. I've been following it systematically. He's hardly ever seen. The Internet must not become the Wild West. We shouldn't want to put everything in order now. Given the influence of social media, it is important to see how we can protect our young people and children to some extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u31	Mr Prévot, Mrs Van Bossuyt, I have read very carefully the annual report of the Trade Ombudsman. It is clear that the consumer has bought more online and that complaints to the Ombudsman, particularly with regard to delivery, have also increased. The leisure and home development sectors are leading the way. The Ombudsman for Trade cites the following figures. The proportion of complaints after purchase in the store is 34%, whereas after purchase in an e-shop is much higher: at 64 %. This is a major change compared to 2019, when the ratio was reversed. Complaints to the Ombudsman originating in e-commerce concern different traders and different sectors. As mentioned in the annual report, most complaints come from the household maintenance and repair sector (25 %), followed by home products, such as furniture (21 %) and electronics and computer products (16 %). It is also striking that, despite the sharp increase in the number of complaints, the electronic and computer products sector is performing significantly better than in 2019. In addition, it should be noted that increases in the respective sectors are not purely due to an influx of complaints addressed to a particular trader. Almost all traders were faced with an increase in complaints lodged against them with the Trade Ombudsman in 2020. The effect of the sanitary measures, such as lockdown and staycation, has had an impact on consumers' buying behaviour. According to the Ombudsman, there were significantly more articles sold in relation to home and garden activities compared to previous years, resulting in an imbalance between supply and demand of those products. According to the Ombudsman, companies determine their stocks and orders in advance in accordance with logarithms based on historical trends. No one could have predicted the trends of 2020. The Ombudsman states that this meant that companies had to make enormous efforts to restore balance. Another explanation for the increase in complaints can be found in the communication campaign conducted by the Trade Ombudsman in 2020. Due to a greater reputation, it also received more complaints. We also notice this every time the higher number of notifications, when ombud services organise a communication campaign. It is the responsibility of traders to execute the contract online in accordance with what has been agreed at a distance with the consumer. Online purchases made by consumers are subject to the rules of distance contracts as defined in Book VI, Chapter 3, Title 2 of the Code of Economic Law. We still see too often that the rules on e-commerce are still too little known or misunderstood by both consumers and businesses, including the smallest of them. In view of the importance of e-commerce for the development of the economy in Belgium, the SPF Economy has created an educational site (infoshopping.be) for the average consumer who buys on the Internet and for small and medium-sized enterprises which offer products and services online. It is therefore important to continue to raise awareness and inform consumers about e-commerce. The Trade Ombudsman also made the recommendation that traders should develop their websites carefully by giving due attention to regulatory business practices and consumer rights. As explained in his annual report, the Trade Ombudsman has indeed relied on a communication campaign to make it clear that consumers can always use a mediation service (in this case the Trade Ombudsman) to bring their disputes to the Ombudsman in a neutral manner and thus find a solution. According to the Ombudsman, the increase in complaints was not undesirable in the light of the communication campaign. On the contrary, the Ombudsman for Trade aims to achieve a comparison between the trader and the consumer with regard to a specific complaint. By increasing the Ombudsman's access to trade, consumers can be prevented from being left with a complaint and can find a solution relatively quickly. On the other hand, traders also benefit from friendly, quick and neutral settlement of disputes with consumers. They are therefore asked to make a clear reference to the possibility of lodging a complaint with the Trade Ombudsman on their website. The trader shall indicate this through his general terms and conditions of sale and his website, as well as in his communication with the customer in the event of a dispute and whenever the consumer's complaint fails to reach a satisfactory solution. The Ombudsman's relevance is linked to the consumer's and traders' confidence in this body. It is therefore essential to become familiar with this service. To this end, it publishes an annual report which is also sent to the media.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u32	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. You took a snapshot of the situation. The increase in complaints is directly related to the explosion of online orders during the crisis. The legislation is clearly not sufficiently known by consumers and by very small businesses and SMEs. Therefore, the website you refer to is obviously a good thing. Finally, we saw that some traders had tried to click and collect, precisely to try to counter competition from large platforms. The best way to help our traders is precisely to turn to them as a priority before using these large online trading platforms. Generally, when you push the door of these stores, you may have less difficulty than with these large platforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u33	Madam Secretary of State, I am shocked by the figures you quoted, especially if they are placed next to those of 2019: 34% when buying in a store, 64% when buying online, while a year earlier it was the other way around. As a result, I immediately link the complaints that come to the Ombudsman. I suspect that this is still an understatement. Many consumers who buy online will not know the way to the Ombudsman to lodge a complaint. We must therefore remain vigilant. You also mentioned that the rules that must be complied with, for example, in order to run a web shop, are still too little known. I hope to ask another question about this later today. I think it is positive that, especially during the corona crisis, people can continue their activities online. However, there are a number of rules which are clearly not well known to everyone. Unfortunately, there are also a large number of crooked companies that abuse the ignorance of consumers. There is certainly still work to be done in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u34	Mr President, on the issue of the cancellation of music festivals, no one knows how the crisis will evolve or what measures will apply in the future. At present, we still do not know from when it will be possible to organize events. As a result, it is too early to comment on the financial situation of event organizers and on the impact of the event on a possible refund required from the consumer. It is not possible to establish specific criteria, but it seems to me that the question to be asked in order to assess the notion of "same characteristics" should be able to determine whether the holder of a voucher would also have purchased a ticket for the proposed replacement event, even if the event is not exactly the same as the cancelled event. Specifically, if the cancelled event involved the performance of a particular artist, it is likely that the holder of a coupon would not purchase a ticket for a concert by the same artist. A priori, the same analysis could be done for festivals. Reorganised festivals should replace the same theme (hip hop, rap, world music, beach music, classical music, jazz, classical rock, heavy metal, etc.). In some cases, the same principal artists as those announced for the original event should be considered an essential feature. In all cases, a case-by-case assessment will always be required. The final assessment will always go to the courts and tribunals. However, the reality, both for festivals and for concerts, is that the two-year period will be exceeded if we want to propose an event of the same quality. It is for this reason that, together with my colleague Minister Dermagne, we have decided, after consultation with the sector, that the vouchers already validly issued under the current ministerial orders and only those, can be used by consumers for the reorganized event within three years and two months after the original event. The SPF Economy is currently working on the extension measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u35	Madam Secretary of State, I hear that it is indeed too early to take a decision. Even if you have already mentioned leads, the question of these same characteristics will have to be decided in order to avoid a definition that is too vague. Ultimately, this will be a necessary assessment on a case-by-case basis. The courts will ultimately settle. When a framework is clear, there is obviously much less difficulty downstream. This will have to be addressed, both in support of the cultural sector which is sorely needed and in order to take into account, of course, the consumer protection aspect. I am pleased to hear that already valid vouchers can be used three years and two months after their purchase. I think this is also a good measure, both for the cultural sector and for the consumer protection sector. Thank you for this measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u36	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, the Economic Inspectorate does not keep any reports on parcel services in itself. It is the Post Office that deals with complaints about the postal and courier companies in Belgium. In the first instance, the consumer must complain to the postal company at issue. The Post Office is the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister for Telecommunications and Post, Mrs De Sutter. Annual reports can be consulted on the website of the Ombudsdienst voor de Postsector, which contains figures on complaints about the shipment of parcels. There is a decrease in the number of complaints in the mail segment, which seems to me to be quite logical, while the number of complaints about packages is increasing. There were 4,863 complaints about the transport of packages by 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u37	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the answer. I am always happy to hear that you yourself discover the answer as you read it and therefore find some things quite logical. I understand that this question is better asked to your colleague, Mrs De Sutter, no matter what I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u38	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, we have come to the question more quickly. I had just referred to it. I therefore refer to my written question. The COVID-19 crisis over the past year affected the sales behaviour of traders and consumer behaviour. Many shops were obliged to close physically for a while and have therefore taken the step to invest in the online sale of their goods through e-commerce and webshops. Although there is information on how to handle a webshop, this process may not have gone as smoothly for all traders. Consumers are forced to shop digitally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u39	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, the number of new web shops created since March 2020 has not been known by my administration. However, an increase has been observed for several years. In 2018, 5,352 companies in the Crossroads Bank for Enterprises indicated an e-commerce activity. In 2019 it was 6,658 and in 2020 it was 11,134 companies. According to the BeCommerce Market Monitor, Belgian consumers spent €10.26 billion online during 2020. This is a decrease of 10% compared to 2019. The large increase in online purchases of goods was offset by a decrease in expenditure within the service sector. Due to the crisis and the different lockdowns, the Belgians have bought online more than the year before. More than 200,000 people bought online for the first time, which means an increase of 2 %. The trend is confirmed by the figures communicated by Statbel. According to his research on ICT use in households, the percentage of internet users who ordered goods or services online in the last three months of 2020 has increased to 71 % compared to 60% in 2019. According to the BeCommerce Market Monitor, the Belgians made an average of fifteen online purchases, representing a total of 126.8 million online purchases, an increase of 12% compared to the same period the year before. While the average purchase in 2019 was 102 euros, that amount fell to 81 euros in 2020. The number of complaints received by the Economic Inspectorate on electronic commerce in 2020 has increased. In 2020, the Economic Inspectorate received 19,329 complaints. Complaints mainly concern fraudulent practices, products that are not provided or services that are not provided and the receipt of unsolicited goods or services. The infringements most frequently mentioned relate to fraud, failure to supply or delay pursuant to Article 6.43 of the Code of Economic Law and infringements of the provisions relating to distance contracts pursuant to Articles 6.45 to 6.63 of the Code of Economic Law. Of the 19,329 complaints received by the Economic Inspectorate in 2020 concerning electronic commerce, 8,149 complaints relate to Belgian companies according to a statement by the complainant, 9.348 to other European companies and 1,099 to companies located outside Europe. For 733 complaints this information is not known. The Economic Inspectorate is vigilant as regards the increase in e-commerce and is making every effort to increase controls in this sector. Since March 2020, the Economic Inspectorate has focused on controls on complaints received and on controls directly related to the health crisis, e.g. the online sale of mouth masks. The Economic Inspectorate will continue to monitor this sector carefully and increase controls. Unfortunately, we will not win the fight against malicious webshops by just checking more. In particular, it is important to monitor smarter, using technology as artificial intelligence to identify malicious websites, or systems that screen and signal websites to inspectors. Today, criminals are setting up a fake website faster than we can take it offline, and we need to reverse that. At the same time, we must also consider extending the instruments. The Economic Inspection can recently impose fines and domain names can be taken offline. The question is whether that is enough and whether it can be done quickly enough. I'd like to take a look at that with my colleagues. Nevertheless, sensitisation remains the final piece. One will continue to try, but prevention of course remains better than cure. An informed citizen is the best ally in the fight against fraud. We also need informed citizens to report these websites at hotline.belgië.be. The more reports, the more targeted research is possible, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u40	Madam Secretary of State, what strikes me in these figures is that a significantly higher number of people have made online purchases but that turnover has fallen by 10%, if I understand correctly. The average purchase price has also fallen from 102 to 81 euros. To be honest, I find that remarkable. You say that we will certainly not be able to solve everything with controls. That's right, we're gonna have to figure out what other options there are. The resources of the Economic Inspectorate are, of course, limited. Furthermore, you state that it is difficult to identify malicious websites and I fully agree with that. Everyone has already thought about dealing with a reliable website when that was not the case. Artificial intelligence can be a help in this area. On the basis of algorithms, things can often be determined that people do not see. That is certainly something we can work on. You are also talking about taking domain names offline. I myself have regular contact with the European Centre for the Consumer in Belgium, perhaps 'professional malformation' from my time in the European Parliament. The center has informed me that there are a lot of new webshops that are all created according to the same pattern. Perhaps it is interesting to put your ear there, because the centre is getting a lot of complaints about that. Those sites all look pretty much the same but are set up by other people. Maybe you could take a look at that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u41	Madam Secretary of State, the CE label is one of the most important labels in Europe. The label shows that certain products meet safety, health and environmental requirements. If we look around our house, we would be amazed at the number of products with that label. Many products entering the European Economic Area must have such a label. It is important that the label has sufficient clarity for the consumer so that the buyer can see whether certain products meet defined standards. However, there is a problem, since the Chinese export label is also abbreviated as CE and the icon of the European CE label and the Chinese export label is almost impossible to distinguish, especially for consumers who do not know, and that is perhaps the vast majority that there is also a Chinese export label. In the label the font is identical, only the whitespace between the letter C and E differs. Madam Secretary of State, do you know the Chinese export label? Are you aware of the problem outlined? Do you have any possibilities in your position to act against it or to do something about it? Will you raise that with your European colleagues? How do you provide information for consumers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u42	Mr Pillen, Mrs Van Bossuyt, I would, of course, like to correct the misunderstanding about the so-called Chinese export label. The sign is almost an exact copy, as you said, of the European label, but the Chinese label is nothing more than a logo. The fake Chinese Export CE Label, or its certification, does not officially exist. It is not a quality guarantee and the logo is not recognised either. It's abuse or a violation of the rules of the CE marking. It is the responsibility of the European Member States and their authorities for market surveillance to monitor compliance with the correct use of the CE marking. The legal basis is set out in Regulation 765/2008 laying down the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products. In addition, the Economic Inspectorate of the FPS Economy for abuse may also act on the basis of Code VI, Market Practices and Consumer Protection, of the Code of Economic Law. The verification of the CE marking is carried out in our country by several supervisory authorities. Depending on the product category it concerns BIPT, the FAGG, the FANC, the FOD Economy, the FOD Mobility, the FOD Public Health or the FOD WASO, for products used in the working environment. Due to the wide diversity between the domains and the powers, it is not possible to determine the products with the highest risk of non-conformity to CE marking. Nor can I comment on which sales platform has the highest risk of non-conformity to CE marking. The Belgian market supervisory authorities each draw up control plans on the basis of their specific competence. An overview is published in the National Market Supervision Programme for Belgium on the website of the FPS Economy. The Court of Auditors recently questioned the follow-up to the recommendations made as a result of its audit on the CE marking. The investigation involved several supervisory services and departments, which differ widely. There can therefore be no single overall answer. The relevant general managements of my administration, the FPS Economy, have each provided feedback within their specific domains. In order to avoid further misunderstandings and confusion among consumers, I am not in favour of a specific awareness or communication campaign on this issue. In addition to the specific web pages on the different product categories, the FPS Economy will develop a general web page with frequently asked questions about the CE marking. I will also address this myself in the European context.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u43	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your very full reply. There are, of course, massive imports from China, also very often of those typical items with such a mark, which we all have in our home. It is, of course, even more problematic that the Chinese CE does not even exist and therefore has no value. I understand that from your answer. Maybe there's more to it than that. Perhaps such a label has been deliberately invented and so it is put on everything. Belgium is too small a country and Belgium is an important part of the European Union. Your strategy is indeed the right one. You will have to deal with this at European level. Belgium is a country with a long tradition of consumer protection and must indeed take the lead in it, together with our Belgian European Commissioner, who is responsible for this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u44	Madam Secretary of State, I mentioned the Chinese CE label during your policy statement. You weren't aware at the time. You said at the time that you didn't know it, but that you would inform yourself about it. In the meantime, you have clearly done so. You say that this is not a quality label, whereas the European CE marking is. It's a logo. The consumer makes no distinction in this respect. If the consumer sees CE, it seems to be just as good as the quality label. It is certainly not unaware that the Chinese export logo happens to be almost exactly the same as the European quality label. It is good that you will raise this issue at European level. That has been around for a few years and has been trying to do something about it for some time now, so I hope that it will finally work. One of my questions was to launch a awareness campaign on Chinese Export, and I find it a little strange that you don't want to do that. The problem will indeed be tackled at European level, but it would not be a bad thing to make consumers aware of this in the meantime, all the more so since research on Test Purchase shows, for example, that more than 66% of the goods are actually very much of what is purchased in foreign webshops, such as AliExpress, eBay and Amazon, is not in line with European safety standards. Not everything can be checked, but it is important to put a certain system in the controls by means of samples or other methods to ensure that consumers buy a safe product effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u45	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I understand colleagues' questions about possible confusion with the Nutri-Score and the Eco-Score. Colruyt is a company that has very often proven to keep its finger on the wrist in different ways.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u46	I find this a very interesting project. More and more people are concerned about their impact as consumers on the planet, in everything related to global warming and so on. However, the question often remains what the hell can be done about it. After all, it is such a big and complex problem. Well, such initiatives at least help consumers to make sustainable choices. Your colleague, Mr Dermagne, is thinking of introducing the GPR score. This is a French project which is in fact aimed at the same thing. The European project of the product passport is a complex dossier, but it seems very interesting to me. All these projects have the advantage of putting pressure on producers to make their production more sustainable. So I see only profit in that. All right, I understand colleagues if they want clarity and want to avoid arbitrariness. Nevertheless, I still think it is a very interesting project. I would have liked to have heard from you how you look at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u47	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I have the same question. In addition, I would like to know what the sector generally thinks. I think it's very important. It's Colruyt's initiative. How is the Eco-Score compiled? It is important that this score is objective, even if it is extended to a wider level. Now this only happens for their own products, within their private label. We must be able to compare this with other products.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to all the speakers. Based on information provided by the company introducing the initiative, it appears that the Eco-Score is a combination of a life cycle analysis, taking into account 16 impact categories such as ozone depletion, use of fossil fuels and raw materials, water use and a number of additional criteria such as transport, biodiversity and recyclability, which are subject to a bonus-malus system. They work together with the French database Agribialysis, which has already analysed about 2,500 products. Of course, a database is also an evolutionary fact that grows on a daily basis. The analysis and quantity of products will be less today than within a few weeks. For Colruyt's products, it brings with it a scientific standard that suppliers want to meet in order to get their products sold in a market of supply and demand. An indication that makes an assessment of the sustainability aspects of a product may contribute, provided that the dates and criteria underlying it are well-founded, to more informed choices by consumers regarding the food they wish to buy. In this sense, it is positive that industry is open to the development of an evaluation system that takes into account product sustainability. It goes without saying that a thorough examination of the data and criteria used is necessary to increase the acceptance of the initiative, especially if a further roll-out of the system would be considered. The composition and operation of the database used is an open data that needs to be checked. The extent to which the introduction of a product-by-product sustainability system will have an impact on prices should be further studied and likely to vary depending on the product in question. I welcome such initiatives because a well informed consumer can make better choices. In considering the introduction of such an initiative for the whole sector, it is preferable to set up a European initiative to introduce a harmonised system. The European Union is currently strongly committed to sustainability and a similar system to Eco-Score can be part of initiatives taken in this context. It goes without saying that Belgium will closely monitor and evaluate the proposals in this respect. In my opinion, Colruyt's Eco-Score can serve as an example of best practice. The result must be that the consumer can make an unambiguous choice about the sustainability aspects of the product he buys, while not being misled. On the question of whether there will be a market imbalance between producers and supermarkets, I would like to refer to the work on the transposition of the Directive 2019/633/EU on unfair commercial practices in relations between companies in the agricultural and food supply chain that my colleagues Dermagne and Clarinval are currently working on. As you know, the fight against unfair commercial practices is an important part of this legislative work. On your request for the introduction of uniform barcodes or QR code systems, I would like to remind you that I am the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection and that I am here for all consumers. So you can understand that this does not offer any added value for the digitally disadvantaged among us, but for others. Any system that helps consumers can count on my support, but we must take account of all consumers. However, I share your concern about the proliferation of labels and I am convinced that labels based on open and scientifically based specifications should be preferred when they can be assessed by independent bodies. It is therefore my intention to strive in the future for less and better-founded labels that can be independently assessed. However, let me first check what is possible at that level at European level, before we apply it only in Belgium. In this, a product passport is an opportunity to reduce the more than 400 labels in the EU that claim sustainability to a clear number.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u49	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the comprehensive answer. I would like to emphasise that I have nothing against this initiative. It is good that such a score will come. Someone always has to be the pioneer. I am asking this question because of the concern that consumers are confused by all these different scores. It is not always obvious to see the forest through the trees. It has to be similar, too. This is one initiative, but there may be others with similar scores and if they are not drawn up on the same basis, it will be very difficult for consumers to compare objectively. I understand that further research is needed into the impact on prices, and I will certainly follow that up. I agree with you that this is best explained at European level and that there will be a European label or a basis for comparison. I am only afraid that if we have to wait for that, there may already be a proliferation of scores and that it will be very difficult for the consumer. So we have to see if we can do something ourselves by now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u50	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I too would like to make it very clear that Colruyt's initiative is a good initiative. Moreover, this shows that we, as legislators, should not have the pretence to think that things will only be done if we impose them, but that there are a lot of companies that take the necessary initiatives themselves. We are now discussing Colruyt's example, but many companies are making efforts, without imposing them as legislators, to tackle climate change together. That is the best proof for me that we should not impose a hundred-and-one rules on this. The positive thing about that label is that the consumer can choose whether or not to pay more attention to the Nutri-Score element or to the Eco-Score. It is important for that reason that it is clear that these are two different scores. With an arrangement at European level, I have a somewhat double feeling. I share Mr Dierick's concern about the time needed before an agreement is reached at European level. I know, for example, that a great deal of thought has already been given to the Nutri-Score at European level. But then come the Italians, who think that their mozzarella is not as unhealthy as some want to make it appear, so they don't want to give their mozzarella a D or E score, while the Spaniards think so for some Spanish hex. So this discussion is difficult. In addition, we must not lose sight of the administrative burden that this may cause for companies. That is why I think it is very important that there should not be any obligations at European level, but perhaps a possibility, with the possible administrative burden on our companies always being taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u51	Madam Secretary of State, I welcome your positive attitude. It is indeed necessary, for example shrimp, caught in the North Sea, which are then peeled in Morocco and then returned to my plate. Rather than apples from New Zealand, I prefer the apple from Haspengouw. As a consumer, I therefore like to be well informed. In my opinion, the remark about price influence will be a little light on this aspect, as I think that the market will make a lot of effort. There will only be an impact when the expansion of the ETS system in Europe is introduced in the field of transport. At that moment you will see changes, but that has little to do with this. I hear you're willing to work on fewer labels, but I have a feeling you'll also want to wait and see what the market is doing. I myself have the impression that Colruyt has worked on this and pushed the other labels out of the market for a piece. I agree with Mrs Van Bossuyt that new rules should not always be devised. It also reminded me of a question that Mrs Dierick once asked about the different types of charging cables for mobile phones. Sometimes it is necessary for the government to intervene in order to reach good agreements between companies. You say that it would be a good thing for Europe to take the initiative here. I agree. However, that should not be an alibi for us not to work on this in our own country in the meantime. On the other hand, we do live in a single market in trade and we have to take that into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u52	Madam Secretary of State, it is important to me that everything is objective, easy to comprehend and easily applicable. In addition, consumers must be properly informed and eco-consciousness increased. On the other hand, it should not be too cumbersome. It must be objective and verifiable, and carried out by an objective institute, not by a company that launches such a label.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u53	Madam Secretary of State, this question has slipped through because it is actually a budget question. We regularly exchange views in the Committee on Finance and the Budget. I noted with some surprise that this question came here, perhaps because it is about the relay plan. It is an interesting question, but I have tabled many other budget questions in recent days and weeks. I look forward to the exchange of views in the Committee on Finance and Budget on 19 and 26 May. I am sorry that this meeting was scheduled so late, though we had other agreements on this subject, but it seems that we have not been able to do otherwise. It's relance week this week. The relay plan must be submitted to Europe. This morning I saw a communication from Germany, France, Italy and Spain. The Belgian plan, which includes the Land plans, must also be submitted. We have already heard from Secretary of State Dermine about this. It was very interesting that you said the ambition was downscaled: initially a list of some 130 % of projects would be submitted, but it was reduced to 100 %. However, we read in the media, and you have also confirmed it in committee, that it is not really being deleted, but that the projects will simply be financed in a different way. The government has therefore agreed that the EUR 5.9 billion of European aid, of which EUR 1.2 billion for the federal level, will be used to make a number of investments within the European framework and that the 30% will not be deleted, but financed from its own resources, with your budget. So you'll be knocked on your door. I am everywhere asking what it will cost and what commitment the government has made, because 30% of an envelope of EUR 1.2 billion amounts to about EUR 400 million, but can you confirm that? If so, how will you pay for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u54	Mr Loones, your question seems to have come to me because the title bears the word'relance plan'. It has indeed been decided at federal level to finance three investment projects that were not included in the plan to be submitted to the European Commission, in particular the scanning of containers, the real estate projects of the Regie, such as the Justice Palace in Brussels, and a project with Defence, for a total investment of EUR 328 million from federal funds. The funds for these projects required for 2021 will be provided for in the 2021 budget control, but they are relatively limited, which obviously has to do with the timing of the projects. Part of the resources will therefore be provided for 2021. The resources for the coming years will also be included in the budgetary perspective. For more details on the exact timing of the projects and their underlying costs, please refer to the relevant government members. These investments increase public expenditure and therefore influence the government deficit at the time they occur and also the government debt. No compensation is foreseen at present. In your question you also referred to the corona commission, but this funding is independent of that. This expenditure has no direct link to the pandemic itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u55	It is always cool to see how much one can learn from a budget question. Today I learned that the project scanning of containers, the justice building, but also the quarter of the future, will not be included in this year's budget, but in part in next year's. You yourself say that this will not have a huge impact on the budget because it will be implemented in stages. We were all hoping that this palace of justice would finally start moving forward. The buildings to renovate are already being renovated, instead of the building. I understand from you that perhaps we will have to renovate the premises for the renovation too. Hopefully it will move forward a little faster and your government colleagues will continue to do so as a matter of urgency. In addition, we have learned that the deficit was already large, that there was budgetary control just before the Easter holiday and that it is in fact already partially obsolete. Budgetary control for this year is, of course, what it is. You yourself say that these are pennies for the next few years. I don't want to misinterpret you. I note, however, that money is being spent smoothly, but that the level of ambition may be slightly higher when it comes to how money can come in a decent way, for example through labour market reform and pension policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u56	Mr President, I would like to refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u57	Mr President, early on in the COOVID-19 pandemic, certain insurance companies were trying to exclude from coverage claims related to COOVID-19 in the event of cancellation insurance, by means of notices on their website. The FSMA has therefore decided to investigate the information provided by insurance companies on the impact of COVID-19 on cancellation insurance. In the first place, it was examined whether information was published which was contrary to the terms of the contracts and which would therefore mislead the policyholder into believing that damages linked to COOVID-19 would always be excluded from cover. This study soon found that eight websites of insurance companies and intermediaries contained incorrect or misleading indications of the impact of the COOVID-19 epidemic on insurance products. It mainly concerned the definition of the coverage provided by cancellation insurance and the exclusions applied as a result of the COOVID-19 epidemic. The FSMA has instructed all concerned insurers and intermediaries to modify their website in order to provide accurate information, which all parties involved have done on first request. As part of that audit, the FSMA found that two insurance undertakings had changed or wished to change their terms unilaterally. In particular, a cancellation of a journey as a result of an epidemic or pandemic would no longer be covered. However, such an adjustment of the conditions is in principle only possible for new agreements. Insurers who also wished to change the terms of current insurance contracts were reminded that the modification of an ongoing contract would in principle require the agreement of the policyholder. One company had changed the terms of the current contracts without obtaining a valid agreement from the policyholders. This company had to inform all policyholders of the fact that their existing contract continued to run unchanged as the insurer had not legally amended or terminated the current contract. No sanctions were imposed on the companies concerned, taking into account the fact that they had taken the necessary corrective actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u58	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. You have asked several of those companies to put the right information on their website. It's the least we can do, at least to provide the right information. With regard to the unilateral changes, it goes without saying that this cannot be done for current contracts. Yet one society has apparently done so. You say that this has been made known to policy-holders on request and that no sanctions have been applied. A lot of goodwill is shown here. I believe that they do not always make such unilateral changes on good faith, and consumers are, of course, the victims of this. I have other questions, which will no longer be addressed today, which show that sometimes contracts are changed without consumers being aware of them. We must avoid that at all times.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u59	In whaling, crooks abuse the lack of physical contact with friends or family. The significant contact restrictions imposed by the measures to combat the coronavirus are leading to the advance of this type of fraud. That is why extra vigilance is needed. It is always a false question of help that so to speak comes from a friend or family member in distress. The only purpose of the crooks is to have their victims transfer as much money into their accounts as possible. Whaling is not a recent phenomenon, but in recent years it has been advancing through instant messaging channels such as Facebook Messenger or WhatsApp. In the past, whaling mainly happened by e-mail. The Antwerp parquet has also stated that it has recently seen an increase in that kind of scam. Does the FPS Economy have concrete figures on how much money was stolen in this way over the past year? How many complaints were registered in 2020? Are we seeing an evolution in this area? How do you plan to raise awareness among potential victims? Can action be taken, for example in relation to the hotline? Is there any specific cooperation with the Justice Department on the subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u60	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u61	The FPS Economy does not specifically record the number of notifications about whaling or friendship fraud at the hotline. Nor does he record how much financial resources have been taken from them during the past year by means of whaling. The FPS Economy therefore has no idea of any increase in the number of reports on whaling since the corona crisis. In general, he notes a marked increase in the number of reports of fraud, such as fake web shops and phishing, since the start of the corona crisis. By focusing on awareness raising, it is best to prevent people from becoming victims of fraud. The FPS Economy does this for various types of fraud, including whaling, through press releases, its website and its social media channels, such as the Facebook page Pass scams. On that Facebook page, a message on whaling was published on 26 February 2021, giving tips on how to recognise this form of fraud and preventing it from becoming a victim. Furthermore, the FPS Economy also focuses on awareness-raising campaigns, such as the "Don't fall into the trap" campaign, including raising awareness about fraud in the name of well-known individuals and organisations. Recently, my administration in the framework of Fraud Prevention Month organized some webinars on fraud phenomena such as whaling. On the basis of the train-the-trainer principle, several experts from the Economic Inspectorate explained to employees of the social sector and the police how to identify various forms of fraud, what to do to prevent one becoming a victim and how to react to a victim. Furthermore, we recommend never to simply transfer money to a family member, friend or acquaintance, as long as they had no other way of contacting that person. Finally, I would like to point out that we are always reporting at the hotline when we are faced with an attempt at whaling. The hotline has taken the initiative to develop a new scenario for the different ways in which the name of known persons, unknown persons or organisations is abused to obtain money. The reply received by the reporter at the end of the notification will, as always, state that a notification is not an official declaration of a crime. If the reporter has lost money, he will therefore be asked to submit an official complaint to the local police in the reply provided. Examination of reports on whaling does not fall within the competence of the FPS Economy and I must therefore refer you to my colleague, Minister Van Quickenborne, responsible for Justice, for more information on the approach and follow-up on the fraud phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u62	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. It is indeed a good thing to take preventive action. We must certainly ensure that we reach the target group that is most vulnerable to whaling effectively. Not everyone follows webinars to prevent fraud. So we need to specifically protect those victims. It is very difficult to get concrete figures. I have also asked the Justice Department for some figures, but above all there are the figures of effective prosecutions, while I want to get an overall picture. So I'm gonna have to continue my search.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u63	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I had also asked for figures, but I understand that I should not be with you for that, but with your colleague from the Justice Department. The awareness-raising campaigns, to which you refer, are not limited to the webinars to which Mr Moyaers refers. You have also pointed out the problem in other campaigns, even with well-known people. It is very good that they are put on the line, especially because whaling is played on the feeling of the victims, which makes them more quickly change and respond to the request. We must not underestimate the problem. In Ghent's police bulletin, which we discuss every month, we find that the numbers of IT fraud and information crime are increasing tremendously almost every month. Therefore, attention needs to be paid to this type of crime. Of course, people themselves bear a great deal of responsibility, but this does not mean that we must remind them of the fraudulent practices that are taking place.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic454x.u64	We have to stop here because this room has yet to be prepared for another meeting. We'll try to find another moment as soon as possible to finish the rest of the questions.
