ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u1	Colleagues, before we begin our work, I should like to inform you that the Minister is available until 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u2	Mr President, Minister, the Brussels Prosecutor's Office is the only one in the country where no King's Prosecutor is currently appointed. For the past seven months, Mr. Tim De Wolf, who was appointed in the emergency to act, has occupied this position. Today, there is a wave of departures within the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is already understaffed; 15 per cent of its members have asked to leave. Staff are in demand for the official appointment of a King's Prosecutor to order it, but this may not take place until 2024. Why this delay? Because during the 2012 state reform, traditional parties negotiated that this position would be held by a bilingual Francophone. However, the Constitutional Court overturned this rule, finding it discriminatory. Since then, the political world has spent its time fighting. On the French-speaking side, we want a Flemish-speaking Francophone, while on the Dutch-speaking side, we want a French-speaking Dutch-speaking. A concern of course a thousand leagues from those of the people, who simply want their files to be dealt with within the correct deadlines, and do not drag years. Mr Minister, can you confirm to us that the appointment of a new King's Prosecutor in Brussels is dragging on for reasons of Community chamilleries? If so, can you explain the concrete difference between a bilingual Francophone and a bilingual Dutch-speaking person? For my part, I don't see any. The acting prosecutor indicated in the press that he had to file files without follow-up due to lack of resources. Questioned in plenary two weeks ago, you said that he had not told you about it. How do we explain these two different versions? You who say you want a "stronger" justice, what do you think of the fact that financial crime cases but also "anything" crime cases are closed down because of the lack of staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I refer first of all to the answer I gave to Mrs Gilson – I think – in plenary session on 30 September. The direction of the public prosecutor's office in Brussels is currently provided by the former Deputy Prosecutor, Mr Tim De Wolf. It is Dutch-speaking – it is true – but perfect bilingual. The decision of the Constitutional Court, which annulled the provision which determined that the public prosecutor of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office should be bilingual, dates from 30 June 2014. I was questioned about this at the meeting of the Committee on Justice on 22 September, and Community scaffolding is not my cup of tea, Mr Boukili. I'm looking for solutions. The goal is not to wait until 2024, Madame Rohonyi. The Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office deserves a King's Prosecutor with a full mandate. I have also not seen a statement from the prosecutor in the press, ladies and gentlemen. The article was based on so-called 'anonymous' sources. The King's Prosecutor has therefore reminded my office, the departments concerned, in person, that the policy must be adapted to the resources available. Such a policy goes, of course, far beyond the mere filing of the files without further action, contrary to what has been deliberately distorted in the press article in question, which is very regrettable. It was the general principles of good management that were recalled. No concrete guidelines for the classification without follow-up have been issued. My research management applied to economic, financial and tax files aims to make the best use of the limited specialized investigative capacity available to the police and to reduce the processing times for criminal investigations. The fight against economic, financial and tax fraud is thus further optimized. I have given precise figures in relation to the investments we are making for the Brussels Prosecutor's Office at the plenary session on 30 September. The Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office currently has 109 judges out of 119. In addition, there are 43 prosecutors for legal support, of which 6 have recently been recruited. From 1 October, 9 judicial interns began working at the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. In consultation with the prosecutor of the College of Public Prosecutions, we will monitor the situation and publish, if necessary, a new call for applications.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u4	Minister, you're saying that the press has distorted... Are these fake news that have been announced to the press? In that case, why not deny them? If you don't, why don't you answer it more clearly? Unless I am mistaken, I still do not know when the appointment of the prosecutor is scheduled. I didn't hear a deadline for his appointment. That's a problem! This is the problem facing the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office today. These elements are recurrent: one can see that there is a general problem on the question of justice. The prosecutor's problem is only the submerged part of the iceberg. In the case of sexual assault in Ixelles, 17 complaints were required for a response. It has been learned that there are only three judges specializing in morals, that the executives are still not filled. I believe you when you say that community scavengers are not your cup of tea and that you are here to find solutions. But the fact is that these community scoundrels block the appointment of this King's prosecutor. And I don't see you looking for solutions since you say you're here to find them. You don't give a deadline for his appointment. The emergency is, however, looming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u5	Mr Minister, thank you for your answer, even though you have referred extensively to the reply you have already sent to our colleague Gilson in plenary. I take note of the fact that there is provision for reinforcement both at the level of the registry and of the magistrates. However, this will take time and, in the meantime, we are faced with rankings that are not followed up because of lack of human resources and which are made to the detriment of the people who are mainly litigants. I hear your willingness to provide a King's Prosecutor with the Brussels Prosecutor's Office, which is the most important in our country in terms of both the number of cases and the complexity of those same cases, as soon as possible. That's great news. We won't have to wait until 2024. Thank you for that clarification. But we still don't know when or how. The aim is to ensure that the legal framework is respected. I would remind you that recently, Mr Jean de Codt said that the federal state was out of the law, that it was a rogue state because it did not respect the legal frameworks that it itself had put to the vote. Here is at stake: to honour the position of the State in relation to the application of the laws it has voted for, but also to ensure legal certainty and to ensure that the cases are brought to an early conclusion, within a reasonable period of time, as required by the European Convention on Human Rights in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u6	Question No 55021756C by Mrs Melissa Depraetere is postponed at her request. Question No 55021782C by Mrs Laurence Zanchetta is postponed at her request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u7	Minister, about a month ago, you announced in the press that you would soon announce where the 15 detention homes you wish to open this legislature and the Prime Minister also spoke of in his government statement. I read that at least 19 municipalities and cities were candidates for a detention house on their territory and that a study is under way to determine which buildings are suitable or not. Meanwhile, it's almost the end of October. As from December, all shorter penalties would also be applied, as you know. That's in a few weeks. The end of the year is already lurking around the corner. Don't worry, you said, before the end of the year, one or two detention homes could be opened. At that time we didn't even know where the detention homes would be. In the meantime, your head of your cabinet has turned to a whole series of mayors, including the Antwerp. I understand that no major response has yet been received to the call to local authorities. I believe that this has to do with the large number of questions that remain. A number of answers were given by the head of the cabinet, but many questions remain open and the information is limited. For a mayor, therefore, it is unclear what is to be started when a candidate is applied for office. In plenary, you said that you would soon announce where one or two detention homes would be located before the end of the year. The day after, you announced in the newspaper a first detention house in Kortrijk. However, one will not suffice. I understand that 720 places are needed, which requires a whole series of detention homes. Minister, when will you clarify the 15 locations of the newly established detention homes? Is it already clear, after the planning of the first in Kortrijk, where the second detention house you wish to open this year? Where? This question was submitted before an explanation was given in Antwerp. I assume that your Head of Cabinet has already explained to other municipalities outside Antwerp the conditions for such a location. I look forward to seeing where the detention house will be located and how you will continue to implement this policy objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u8	Mr President, Mr Minister, as some of my colleagues have explained, as of 1 December, every person sentenced to imprisonment for less than three years will automatically have to go through the prison box. After almost sixteen years, the law of 17 May 2006, which provides for the execution of short sentences, will finally be applied. This execution of short sentences, however, will mechanically increase prison overcrowding even further. Of course, you have a sort of transitional regime. However, in the long run, if we take up the figures you mentioned last May, the execution of the short sentences would require an additional 422 places in our prisons. I hear that Haren's prison would bring two hundred additional seats as early as September, even December 2022, but for the rest, you rely mainly on the deployment of transitional houses: two in 2021, four by mid-2022 and nine in 2023. You said earlier this month that the Council of Ministers agreed to the opening of two detention centres (between 20 and 60 places) from 15 December 2021. I understand that one of them will be located in your fief, in Courtrai, but will open only after the new year - therefore without specific date. While I am pleased that an amount of EUR 92 million will be allocated to the opening of these transitional houses, I am nevertheless concerned about the impact that the entry into force of your new system, aimed at the execution of short sentences, could have on the prison population, in any case in the short term. You recognize it yourself, the pressure on the existing prison system will increase in the coming months. So, Minister, how many convicts will be affected by the execution of these short sentences by December 1st? What is the proportion of short sentences today? Since the number of places in prison or in detention facilities will not be able to increase significantly in the short term, how will you guarantee that the short sentences will still be carried out, and what is – it is very important – in dignified conditions of detention? How many more prisoners do they represent per prison? Within what period? Could you give us a report on the situation with regard to the second detention facility that was supposed to open on 15 December? How many inmates can be accommodated there? What about the deployment of detention centres planned for 2022?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u9	Mr President, Minister, last night we were able to meet on the information evening about the first detention house in our city of Kortrijk. You had to walk there in front of the many hundreds of inhabitants who had fallen to it. Even Minister Bart Somers was rushed to Kortrijk to sell the prison project to the people. The many hundreds of neighborhood residents who had hoped for participation and consultation were in the trouble yesterday. The neighborhood was treated to a true Open Vld-show with leading pieces Bart Somers, Minister Van Quickenborne and the acting Open Vld-mayor of Kortrijk, who performed the high word. It became mainly a monologue, a sales pitch, but those hundreds of neighborhood residents clearly and rightly didn't. I used the phrase "spit rods run," because that's it. The Kortrijk people are angry, angry, even, at the fact that they are faced with an accomplished fact. I also wanted to ask questions on behalf of the local residents on that information evening yesterday, but I was expressly prohibited from doing so. That is why I am asking the questions here in Parliament today. Firstly, can we get firm guarantees that no drug criminals, sexual offenders or burglars will be locked up in that detention house? As you know, the Bethany guidance center is currently in that same building. This is an organisation that takes care of young people, including young girls who are often victims of sexual abuse. Are the unsub and the victim gonna be in the same building now? And what about the privacy of those young people in a very transparent building with lots of glazing? Secondly, how does the Minister estimate the risk of that prison, situated in the middle of a residential area, next to a kindergarten and primary school and between Hogeschool Vives and university campus Kulak, where there are many vulnerable students, young people and children? Thirdly, we live in the rule of law, but in the press we read that no permit would be required for this alternative prison. We doubt that, given the great impact on the surroundings, the many hundreds of troubled neighborhood residents and the study that appears to have been made about the parking lot. Is there going to be a public investigation and so will the neighborhood have a say? Fourthly, prior to that decision, has there been any consultation with the college and the university? Because the detention center obstructs the plans to create a single association campus at that location between Vives and Kulak. Fifthly, to what extent is it effectively a closed centre? After all, there is employment in neighbouring companies and services by convicts in the neighborhood. Will a high fence be built around the former retirement home? Will access control be provided? There's surveillance around the center. How will it be organised without violating the privacy of residents and students? Sixth, what about the visitor scheme? Will it not cause inconvenience and cause visitors from the criminal environment? Seventh, when will the detention house open? Finally, when will the first evaluations of the detention house follow?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I listen to the questions, I am particularly impatient. In particular, MEPs are asking when detention houses will be established. Yesterday we proposed the first detention house in Kortrijk. Everyone is arguing against impunity and for the execution of all penalties. Nevertheless, some MEPs, such as Mr Vermeersch, are able to protest against the arrival of such a detention house. That's very strange, isn't it? Some politicians lack courage. They're having Nimby Syndrome, not in my backyard. To be honest, I've known that for a long time. In the report of the VRT reporter on the spot, I read the following, I quote: "At the neighborhood meeting on the Kortrijk detention house it turned out that most of the 350 attendees were actually won for this small-scale approach to prisoners." I will answer the questions as they have been put, and I would point out that we are here in the Belgian Parliament and not in the city council of Kortrijk. The detention homes are primarily intended for the detention of all persons sentenced to prison for up to three years. Convicts for acts of terrorism and sexual offenders are excluded. The 720 places provided for in detention facilities will not be available immediately. The same applies to short prison sentences: the law will enter into force on 1 December, so it is only at the end of January that the convicts concerned by this law will begin to arrive in prison gradually. In answer to questions 1 and 2 by Mrs De Wit and questions 2 and 3 by Mrs Rohonyi, I can answer that we will continue to search for suitable locations together with the Government of the Buildings. The first detention house will be opened in Kortrijk. There are other concrete slopes in preparation. As soon as there's clarity, I'll communicate about that. In reply to Mrs De Wit's third question, I can say that a programme of needs has been drawn up. Moreover, the mayors of the province of Antwerp were explained by my policy cell. If the mayors so wish, further targeted explanations can be provided. There have also been several conversations between my policy cell and several mayors. There is also regular contact with the governor. Let me now turn to the next question. As was explained during yesterday's neighborhood information, a detention house is a closed facility, in which the residents cannot just leave the detention house. In order to do this, prisoners, such as those in a traditional prison, need to be admitted, for which a number of conditions must be met. In addition, all residents of a detention house will be screened prior to their arrival at the detention house. If there are safety counter-indications, they will not be housed in a detention house. Short-term punishments that suffer their punishment in a detention house are now simply taking part in society, whether or not with an electronic anklet. By accompanying them in a detention center, security is only improving. The intention was to consult with the neighborhood shortly after the budget for the detention homes here in Parliament was confirmed. As you know, the news was leaked shortly after, so we got caught in speed. As you know, we organised a first neighbourhood information event yesterday, explaining the concept. Anyone could ask questions. It will be discussed further in the city council. There has also been consultation with Vives and Kulak regarding the project, as they are interested in purchasing the site. That's an open secret. In addition, yesterday Vives also expressed an interest in working with the detention house for certain training courses. The plans of Vives and Kulak to create one association campus on the site Lichtendal are not compromised. Lichtendal will be temporarily rented for a period of about five years. After that, Vives and Kulak will be able to purchase the site, if necessary, in order to create an association campus. It's about a closed institution. There's a check on the entrances and exits. Camera surveillance is provided in the corridors of the detention house, inside and on the front door, but not in the neighborhood. As far as visiting arrangements are concerned, an analysis of the prisons shows that on weekdays there are 2 to 4 visitors and on weekends there are 10 visitors all over the day. Visitors also undergo screening. The prisoners are expected by early February. Evaluations will be carried out at regular intervals, with different parameters being examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You spoke of impatience. I do not know whether that was against me or one of the other questioners. Before you think I want to stand on the brakes again, the resolution to set up a detention home was still tabled by my group in the 2011 legislature. So that's how long we've been working on that story.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u12	That was 2012.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u13	I remember we've been working on that for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u14	That was a resolution tabled by Ecolo, among others. It was a good resolution, but unfortunately it was not adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u15	We were in the opposition then, and you know how opposition parties are taking initiatives. They are not always supported by the majority. We know the whole story of vzw De Huizen, but what triggered me now is that you announce it. You sign that up because you have to find some places, but that's where it stops. Kortrijk will not be before the end of this year. You were allowed to open two more this year, but that won't happen, so it stops. I understand from your head of the cabinet that there isn't a playbook yet. Finding staff is not easy, just as it is not easy for prisons. It will also not be so easy for a detention home, because certain profiles will be needed. I always find it dangerous to announce things that create expectations that cannot then be met. Minister None had calculated that with the entry into force of the WERP 400 additional places would be needed step by step, but now we are looking for 720 places. That's a lot more, so that makes the challenge even bigger. So it is not an impatience, but a certain concern. After all, you must not only find a suitable building, which cannot be everywhere, especially when I see the need programme. It will also be crucial to create a basis for support, although I do not think I need to give you that advice. It must be clearly explained what it is and what it is intended to do. That's why it's important that there's a playbook. It is important to be able to demonstrate who will be taken care of there and who will not. If there is no support, it will be a difficult story and will remain. I think that's going to be the big challenge. I wish you every success, Minister, and I wonder whether you will succeed in opening the detention house in Kortrijk in the near future. I look forward to seeing the other locations that you are supposedly holding back and how many places there will be available. But I am aware that you face a great challenge in this story and wish you every success in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. First of all, I want to clarify that, unlike the last Member who asked you a question, what is a problem for my party is in no way the development of detention centres. On the contrary, we are truly convinced of the need to invest in detention homes and human-sized institutions. All criminologists keep telling us. What is at issue here is that you have made the choice to have short sentences executed by the end of January – and not as early as December, I mean – that is, even before you make sure that there will be enough places in detention to do so. This is a problem today and is confirmed by the absence of your answers regarding the number of places that are still being sought today, and the number of convicted persons who would be affected by the enforcement of this law. I hear the figure of 420 places required. Then we'd finally go to 720. I really need these figures to be clarified. We still do not have a clear timetable or precise number of convicts involved. In the meantime, we are going to put our prisons under stress, when they are already overcrowded, we must remind them, and also at the same time worsen the conditions of detention, to the detriment of the prisoners and also of the prison officers. We know that our prisons today do not respect the human dignity of this overcrowding, which will be further inflated by the arrival in large numbers of people sentenced to short sentences. Just recently, the prison in Tournai has been pointed out for conditions of detention that are not respected due to overcrowding. I really expected much more precise figures, data and timetables on your part, and I therefore remain very concerned about the objective, even though it, at the core, is quite commendable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u17	Minister, you have wronged the people of Kortrijk. Already in April of this year there were plans to build a detention house at that location in Kortrijk, but you deliberately withheld it from the local population. Mr Minister, you have also put the people of Kortrijk before a definite fact. That detention house must and will be established, without any participation or consultation with the population. Who's thinking of building a prison project next to a kindergarten, next to a primary school and between a college and a university? The recent incident with a possible shooter on the campus of Hogeschool Vives showed once again how vulnerable the kindergarten children, school children and students are in that neighborhood. Kortrijk and the Kortrijkzanen are being abused for all kinds of experiments on justice. The way you announced this alternative prison and the location you have chosen undermine any necessary support for the population. Meanwhile, a petition was drafted, with over 800 signatures from neighborhood residents. Flemish Interest supports the legitimate resistance of the neighborhood and the Kortrijkzanen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u18	We work closely with the services of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, in particular the Foreign Affairs Office and Fedasil. You are right, dear colleague, when you say that the protection of young people, often children, is paramount and that at the same time we must ensure the effectiveness of all asylum systems. The Voogdij department has monthly figures on its core mission and carries out an annual workload measurement. There are currently 516 guardians active. Of these, 386 are voluntary, 106 are self-employed and 21 are employed. At the moment, the service is indeed faced with a high influx of unaccompanied minors, which makes it difficult to assign a guardian to all of them quickly. We also note that there is an increased complexity of custody, such as the problem of street children and children with psychological problems. Initiatives have been taken to increase the number of guardians. On 1 August, the Voogdij Service launched a new recruitment campaign for candidate guardians. On various social networks and the website of the FPS Justice, video clips were broadcast in which custody was promoted. Three virtual information sessions were held in September and October with a total of just under 200 participants. Selection interviews will take place from mid-October to December of this year. About 120 people have applied, including 40 Dutch-speaking candidates and 80 French-speaking candidates. At the end of December, the Voogdij will organise a basic training course, which should make them operational by 2022. As the legal representative of the unaccompanied foreign minor, the guardian is responsible for the management of the assets of his ward. Heritage management and reporting by guardians are therefore an integral part of their missions. These are also explained in the general guidelines for the care of guardians of 2 December 2013. The recent reform of the family allowance system has had an impact on the incomes of unaccompanied foreign minors. In order to make guardians aware of their responsibility for the heritage management of their ward and in view of the need to harmonize their practices, a new report on the management of the heritage assets of the MENA was implemented by the Tutelle Service. The new reporting model is more accessible and better adapted to the new reality of MENA and should not be supplemented by MENA with no income. The Tutelle Service communicated this information to all guardians and immediately organized several information sessions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that a series of measures are being put in place to promote the function of MENA tutor on social networks, etc. Today, the MENA tutors mainly want to upgrade their function as such – particularly at the wage level – for themselves and for the MENA whose influx we know is significant. MENA need adequate support. They are vulnerable, self-delivered children who arrive alone in a country they do not know, where they speak a language they do not know. Three quarters of them are Afghans. It's no coincidence. Without a guardian, they are even more isolated in the face of this change and the steps they have to take, particularly in the context of their international protection application procedure or simply to open a bank account. These MENA tutors are all-terrain workers, experts in foreign law, youth law, social work, property management, pedagogy, psychology. These workers are passionate, but like any worker involved in his missions, the passion for work at the service of others is no longer enough to engage and remain engaged. You say that guardian candidates are applying today; that is a good thing. However, a whole series of guardians engaged today either continue to work even if they are exhausted, or end up abandoning their vocation at the end of the race. On October 5, I met a tutor who manages 25 guardianships. It is paid 10 euros gross per hour, for 35 hours per week. She actually works in the evenings, weekends and during the holidays because the relationship with an unaccompanied foreign minor is based on trust and requires enormous availability from the guardians. I expect you to send them a gesture, which is not to talk about them – in praiseworthy terms – on social networks, but a gesture that translates into a real re-evaluation of their function. They have been making such requests for many years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u20	Mr Minister, on 7 October 2021, almost everyone in West Flanders hunted for an armed boy, who subsequently proved to have psychological problems, due to years of cannabis use. Apart from the fact that it has once again been shown that no drug is safe, this case above all makes it clear that today there is still a gap in the legal powers of investigators. A investigating judge can only choose to arrest someone and therefore send them to prison, but does not have the possibility to refer someone directly to psychiatry. He may, of course, impose conditions, but he may not order someone to be admitted to an institution, even in cases where it is quite clear that the person concerned is better served by psychiatric care than by staying in prison. Meanwhile, the council has decided to release the boy under conditions. It was also confirmed that he had a place in a psychiatric facility. That was one of the conditions. It has been solved in this way, but an investigating judge cannot impose a recording directly. That's a gap. Are you in favour of providing for this possibility in the legislation for investigators? If so, when can this be arranged? If not, why aren't you in favour of that? What's the reason why that's not possible so far?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u21	This is, of course, a difficult discussion, Minister. A investigating judge is not a psychiatrist and his decisions may have consequences if such a person is admitted to an institution and there is a danger to staff and other patients. What is your opinion on this and on the government's opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, like you, have taken note of the position of investigating judge Van Linthout, published in De Standaard on Monday 11 October 2021, following the manhunt for the armed young man with mental problems in Kortrijk and Waregem a few days earlier. I will give you my position on this right away. Firstly, if the investigators raise the issue, then we better listen. The essence of the problem seems to me to be whether there is adequate guidance for prisoners, including prisoners with mental problems, including those in remand. In my policy, I pay a great deal of attention to correct punishment, but at the same time to good guidance in prison, as from day one, so to speak. We've come a long way from that. Secondly, if we dissect the problem, I think that the problem that has been denounced is rather a problem of offering in psychiatry and less a legal problem. In other words, I think it is more urgent to ensure a sufficient supply, together with the colleague of Health, than simply to change the law. After all, what is the point of changing the law if there are insufficient treatment options in psychiatry, both in-patient and residential. Let me explain myself. It is important to know what the current possibilities are for this. Researchers have various possibilities when confronted with a suspect who is suspected to have a underlying psychological problem. They can first and foremost appoint an expert who knows the psychiatric condition of the suspect. This is covered by Article 5 of the Internment Act. When the investigating judge is informed about the mental state of a suspect but at the same time wants to guarantee safety, he may decide to lock the suspect in the psychiatric annex of the prison pending the expertise report. In addition, the investigating judge may also order that the suspect be admitted to a secure clinical observatory. The added value of this is that there is also an observation of the suspect in the center. The observation adds value to the expert's report. For this there are places in the prison of Saint Gillis, pending the opening of the prison of Haren, where a fully secured clinical observation center will be installed, to the Dutch Pieter Baanmodel. If a investigating judge considers it appropriate to have a place in a psychiatric institution, this can be done in the context of freedom under conditions, in other words, as a necessary condition to be released pending the proceedings on the substance. This means that the defendant must agree to these conditions of release. In concrete terms, he or she must agree to the temporary admission to a psychiatric institution. He or she acknowledges that he or she has an underlying problem and that he or she is willing to be accompanied and treated. In practice, however, we have to establish regularly that there is no place in a psychiatric institution, which de facto means that the suspect is longer in prison. In addition, it is suggested that an investigating judge would be given the opportunity to state in his arrest mandate that the defendant is deprived of his liberty and is obliged, without permission, to be accommodated in a psychiatric hospital instead of in prison. I'm sure I'm very fond of that idea. I really have no idea why that possibility has not been registered legally so far. I can only see that I am being identified with practical problems, on which we need to think carefully. Supposing a suspect has to go to a psychiatric hospital, for example, is difficult to achieve without a psychiatric expert report. An expert can never complete that report within 48 hours, the maximum time limit for arrest. Even if he could, the question arises as to what the quality of the expert's research is if it was prepared within such a short period of time. The defendant's rights of defence are at risk here. The investigating judge is not obliged to rely on an expert, but is it desirable for a investigating judge to take that decision without a medical-psychiatric report and without the consent of the suspect? That requires a well-thought-out debate. Moreover, the question is whether psychiatric hospitals are equipped to place persons in remand. At present, despite our efforts, such as the additional resources and the places created, there are still too few places in the institutions. Should beds always be kept free in case a investigating judge makes such a decision? This also requires a well-thought-out debate. Those are elements I can share with you today. It is certainly a problem that we should look at together with Health in a broader context.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u23	Minister, I think that your answer has opened the debate. You offer an interesting slope that we need to look at more closely, so that we can always act in an appropriate manner. You are right, of course, that there should be places. That actually applies to any measure, whether it is a punishment, a security measure or a recording. It is a pity that we always have to be concerned about sufficient capacity, but that is the reality. However, if we do not have the debate, no progress will be made. I am therefore pleased that the issue can be addressed. In the future it might be possible to consider how best to deal with it, what the pitfalls are and what solutions are possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u24	Minister, the debate is indeed open. In any case, we must never hide behind a lack of capacity. I know it's not your fault, it's never anyone's fault. It makes sense that a few beds are kept free. This also applies in the prison system, where places are kept free, for example in case someone is to be taken into remand. In psychiatry it should be possible. You have listed our important concerns, namely the rights of defence, the obligation for an expert report to be drawn up within 48 hours and the possibility for an investigating judge to take the decision without a medical-psychiatric report. I wouldn't want to see that last one. The debate has been opened and I hope that we will be able to discuss this shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u25	Mr President, Minister, we read in De Standaard on 15 October that the pilot project of the transition house in Edingen is being stopped. Mechelen's has evolved positively and will remain open. Transition houses are run by a private player after a public tender. The Prisoners now say that the trial period in Edingen has been difficult, mainly due to staff changes, but also because the house would be difficult to reach. In Edingen, there were about 15 prisoners together. However, by next summer, it is intended to create 100 places in different new transition homes. So you have to look for a lot of places: besides the 720 in detention homes you want 100 in transition homes here. But if Edingen closes, we'll only have 15 places in Mechelen. This means that 85 additional places will have to be found by next summer, if you want to achieve that objective. That means five or six new transition homes, assuming that each transition house can accommodate about 15 prisoners. Hence my questions. Could you give some more information on the negative evaluation in Edingen and on the positive evaluation in Mechelen? How do you evaluate the operation of the transition houses by a private player? Did the aforementioned staff changes take place with the private homes or with the administrative services? Has it been decided how many transition houses will be added in 2022? What is your further timing? Do you have any idea where? Do you have enough budget for that? You said you had 92 million euros, but that was about the detention centers. Has a call been launched to cities and municipalities to apply for a transition home on their territory, following the example of detention homes?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u26	Mr President, Minister, I was informed by the Bishop DéFI of Enghien of the imminent closure of the transitional house of this commune. In the absence of candidates for the first call for tenders launched by your firm on 28 July, for which no candidate has applied, and despite the fact that the second call for tenders was still open until 25 October, the operator of the transitional house, namely the private guard company G4S, notified the management of the transitional house that it would simply close its doors on 3 December next. That's why I sent you a letter, which you quickly answered – I must admit – saying that you were powerless in this matter, unable to force candidates to apply. This response surprised me, in view of your responsibility in launching these calls for tenders, but also in view of the extremely negative consequences that the closure of this transitional house would entail, since reintegration projects would thus be compromised overnight. In other words, the residents of this house should again be imprisoned in Walloon prisons or transferred to Flanders or Brussels, which would significantly compromise respect for their basic rights. I am thinking of the right to receive training or therapy in one's own language, the right to live near one's family, the right to evolve in an environment that does not know prison overcrowding. I remember that in the meantime, things would have moved in a positive way since potential operators would have finally responded to the second call for tenders, and since the town of Enghien would be ready to support the owners of the premises, but also G4S. Minister, can you tell me if potential operators have finally responded to the call for tenders? If so, who are they? Are they serious candidates to succeed G4S? If not, will you introduce a third tender to allow time for the municipality of Enghien and G4S to contact other potential operators? Is it not also for the federal government to operate this house, in any case, during the transition period? If the municipality were to ensure this transitional period, does the federal government commit itself to at least funding this support? If not, is the opening of other transitional houses in Wallonia compromised? What are the reasons why G4S refuses to apply again? Are these reasons purely financial? If so, why would the operation of transitional houses be more lucrative in Flanders and Brussels than in Wallonia? How to remedy this and make the exploitation of these houses more attractive in Wallonia? If the closure of the transition house of Enghien was finally inevitable, which I obviously do not hope, what will happen to the residents of this house? Are they going to have to go back to prison? On the basis of what criteria will their future prison be chosen? Will they be eligible for parole?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the record, no negative assessment has been made. Mrs De Wit, the entire project was positively evaluated in globo. The project was discontinued in Edingen because the operator did not wish to extend the pilot project and no other operator applied. After a year, the transition house in Mechelen received a positive evaluation. The operation was then extended for a further year, until 31 August 2021. The transition house in Edingen has had a number of operational problems, as well as some structural problems. At the end of 2020, the operation of the transition house itself was interrupted as a result of a serious incident between residents and a staff member. After evaluation and adjustment, the operation was eventually extended until 31 August 2021. Despite some difficulties at the beginning of the project, in full corona crisis, the transition house in Edingen has been able to fill in its capacity as much as possible since February of this year. Thus, the project came to its full effect again and the participants were also willing to engage as part of reintegration prospects. There was also a conceptual evaluation of the transition house as a penalty execution mode. This involved not only the transition houses but also the prison directories involved, the regional directors, the central psychosocial service and the Detention Management Board. This evaluation was submitted to the Council of Ministers for the summer and was part of the decision to extend the number of places in transition homes to 100. The operation is carried out by a consortium consisting of several partners. In Edingen, staff changes took place within the consortium that runs the operation. New life and strength coaches were attracted and a change of direction took place. As regards the third question, the roll-out to 100 places will start in 2022, spread over a six to seven transition houses. Following the call for applications launched this summer, six projects were received. As these were Dutch-speaking projects only, a new call for projects was launched on 1 October 2021. This time, two Francophone projects were received. Where they will be established is not yet known. The submitted projects, six Dutch-speaking and two French-speaking, are now further evaluated by the administration. [[It is only after this second phase of selection that we will decide on the various locations.]] With regard to the fourth question, a general call has been launched, not specifically to cities and municipalities, but to anyone who wants to apply for membership because he or she believes to meet the conditions. With regard to the first question, it should be noted that the procedure takes place in two phases. The first phase was completed and consisted of the submission of a pre-submission, which was primarily intended to provide information on the motivation of the candidate and the form of the organization. The selected candidates were invited to submit a detailed dossier. Two files for Enghien were received, Mrs. Rohonyi. The file review is ongoing. As for your second question, we will first determine the current selection procedures and then assess whether a new call for candidates should be made. As far as the G4S group is concerned, he does not refuse anything. The Enghien Transition House is operated by the Sterk Huis consortium, in which Exodus and G4S are partners. The consortium is no longer a candidate for Enghien but for Malines because it wants to focus on the Dutch-speaking part of the country. The reasons for this decline are not financial, since the price for the operation of the transitional house in Malines is the same as that of Enghien. Under no circumstances did Exodus present this argument to justify his renunciation for the exploitation of the Enghien transitional house. Let me turn to your fifth question. On 25 October, two days ago, there were eight detainees in Enghien. Individual resident files are under review. The files of those who are in the conditions for the execution of the sentence will be submitted to the Penal Enforcement Court as soon as possible. Residents who may benefit from the terms will therefore be able to leave the transitional house. For those who do not meet the conditions for the execution of the sentence or who will be refused, a suitable prison will be sought. Contraindications are identical to those applicable to other detainees. Here are my answers!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm gonna go over it one more time. If it was a decision of your own to stop the operation, then so be it. The fact is that you face the same challenge here as at the detention homes. You'll need those places, if it can go in an appropriate way. Hair can indeed offer a solution, but it will not provide the places that will be needed. So I think there's still some work to be done here. I'm sure we'll follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answers. Some of them are totally positive and others are much less, and they continue to ask me questions. First, the fact that two files were finally received in order to be able to resume operation of the transitional house is quite reassuring, although it will be necessary to verify that these candidates meet the conditions for doing so. I think this is very important because, on the one hand, we cannot plead for sentences that are imposed in small structures with an increased emphasis on reintegration if, on the other hand, all the projects which participate in this logic and which, in particular, bear fruit are compromised. Indeed, you may say that the beginnings of Enghien's transition house have been difficult, it must be noted that today, this transition house is working. I saw it with my own eyes when I had the opportunity to visit it. All the residents told me how much their employment, their training, the collective sports sessions they pursue outside, allowed them to hang up on this life of freedom in a few months' time. So we can't take that away from them overnight. That would be totally counterproductive. What is more important to me is when you say that G4S has actually preferred to devote itself to the operation of transitional houses in Flanders without knowing why and when the objective pursued by a transitional house, whether it is in Malines or Enghien, is exactly the same. We're still aiming for reintegration. Why then would it be more interesting to pursue in Flanders than in Wallonia? It's something that totally exceeds me. I would have liked to have a clearer answer to that question. Finally, regarding the fate of these residents, you tell us that if these residents do not enter the conditions for the execution of the sentence, they will have to find themselves in a new prison that would be adapted. I would have liked to know on the basis of what and how we could really have the guarantee that their basic rights, which I mentioned earlier, will be fully respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u30	Mr President, Minister, I refer to the question put in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u31	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, the judgment of the Dutch-speaking court of first instance in Brussels was served on us on 21 October. The verdict is currently being investigated by the administration and our counsel. The time limit for bringing an action is still running. For the time being, therefore, I cannot continue to communicate about any appeal or the impact of that judgment on any other functions. However, at least so important is that we want to remedy the situation on the ground. The draft royal decree for the implementation of the job paths has been drawn up. The necessary opinions were requested. The Finance Inspectorate has already delivered a positive opinion. We also have the agreement of the Secretary of State for the Budget and the Minister for Civil Service. The draft Royal Decree will then be submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. We are making every effort to issue that royal decree within four months, which is the time limit given by the court to the government not to pay periodic penalty payments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed a fairly recent judgment and I understand that it needs further investigation. I do hope, as you say, that the term "Team Justice" will not only be a hashtag or marketing term. The Justice team is formed, among other things, by the people in my question. I think they deserve respect because they do their best every day for justice and often have to work in difficult circumstances. Indeed, there is an urgent need for a new or an appropriate royal decision in this situation. I hear it's heading in the right direction right now. I hope so too, because if an appeal is considered, regardless of its content, we all know that, given the current high lead times in the courts of appeal, a solution may not be found until the next legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u33	Mr President, here too I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u34	As far as your question about the agreements made is concerned, of course, it is an important and current issue, especially after the incident with regard to the Interior, which was mentioned in the press. In 2016, the FPS Justice concluded a cooperation agreement on computerisation with the professional organisations of the lawyers, notaries and bailiffs. That protocol lays down a number of basic principles for a constructive, sustainable approach. The Protocol stresses the importance of managing authentic sources, for example as regards identity and access management, and the responsibility of each signatory to build the necessary security guarantees on its own and shared platforms. At national level, the IT applications of lawyers' professional organisations are managed by DPA, which has introduced different security methods to protect its infrastructure from unauthorised access. These are described in detail in different procedures. For safety reasons, the detailed measures cannot be explained in detail. Then I come to the answer to your next question. Since 2018, the FPS Justice has been working with an external partner to protect our ICT networks and employees from hacking or other cyber attacks. By using security as a service, which is data protection, Justice can use specialists for our network security 24 hours a day. In this way, we can better respond to the evolution of cyber attacks, respond more quickly to an incident, comply with regulations and better ensure the continuity of services. In addition, the FPS Justice also invests in periodic backups of all user data to central servers, regular security updates to the software, modernising hardware, preventive testing and sensitisation. In the framework of the Digital Transformation of Justice project submitted for the RRF of Europe, additional resources will be made available for further targeted investments in the cybersecurity protection of Justice, and we will strengthen our internal security procedures even more. The ICT and Proximus staff continuously monitor potential security risks. In the case of a security breach, where there are potential data leaks, there are fixed procedures to follow, such as reporting the incident to the competent data protection officer, working with the Cybersecurity Centre in terms of management and crisis communication. Based on the information available, there have been no targeted cyber attacks against the FPS Justice in recent years. The FPS Justice is of course confronted with incidents of phishing, spam or classical viruses. In any case, the situation is continuously monitored and we can react quickly thanks to our security infrastructure. We are also committed to raising awareness, communicating with citizens on this issue and, as far as possible, anticipating any incidents. On a regular basis, there are ddos attacks against the federal network infrastructure, which Belnet captures. However, precise figures should be obtained from Belnet. In case of a break-in in the system or data leaks, there are procedures available. For safety reasons, the measures developed to prevent and address hacking cannot be explained in more detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u35	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, the Presidents of the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking court of first instance of Brussels are in general charge and represent the organisation of the peace courts and the police courts of the judicial district of Brussels. These Presidents have drawn up a plan for the grouping of different Registrys of the 19 cantons of the district. The grouping of peace courts is justified, inter alia, by the shortage of staff and the difficulty of finding candidates, all the more so when they have to prove bilingualism. There are several places of peace judges vacant. Their duties are currently being taken over by deputy judges. The grouping will make it possible to improve the resources and staff available, but also to make the office of peace judge more attractive by avoiding isolation. Pooling will not in itself have an impact on language requirements. The judges of the peace, the chief magistrates and the clerks must have a thorough bilingualism. This poses a major problem in practice because there are insufficient bilingual staff. The polarisation doesn't change anything about this. The pooling of the 19 peace courts of the administrative district of Brussels is a first step and implies that three peace courts will sit at the same location, both as regards seat and registry, and that the Registrys will be unified. It should be stressed that this does not affect peace judges in themselves and their territorial powers, so that the formation of the pool does not alter the language requirements of the judiciary or the staff of the Registry. A further step is the search for an adequate form of administration for the Brussels peace courts and police courts, which is a complex and sensitive exercise, including in the light of language issues. A simple structure, such as in the other arrondissements, with one umbrella president of the peace judges and judges in the police courts and a single chief clerk for all cantons, is not adapted to the fact that the entities concerned are partly bilingual and partly monolingual. Any solution will have to be introduced gradually, taking into account the difficulty of finding bilingual magistrates and judicial staff. A first step towards a better overarching structure that we are now looking at is to move away from the regulation that every peace-making court in Brussels counts as a main griffin. The aim is to transform the existing legislation of 26 chief clerks for the peace courts, 1 chief clerk for the Dutch-speaking police court and 3 chief clerks for the French-speaking police court into 3 chief clerks, taking into account the language problem, i.e. 1 French-speaking, 1 Dutch-speaking and 1 bilingual.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have questioned you a number of times about this and I know, of course, that it is generally difficult to find people who want to work for the Justice Department. That is even more difficult in Brussels. I am also aware of the problem of job vacancies. Indeed, it must not be the intention of the polarisation, as you seem to indicate, to renounce bilingualism. We want to avoid a situation in which the bilingualism of the service is installed rather than the bilingualism of individuals. You know what happened to the police in Brussels. Often a Dutch-speaking person who comes to a police station has to wait until a Dutch-speaking police officer is present to have a complaint dealt with. Dutch speakers are thus regarded as subordinate citizens. That must not happen at all! If this scenario were to occur in the Brussels peace courts, it would be detrimental to Dutch-speaking judges. We also noticed that the French-speaking chief griffin, responsible for the French-speaking police court, should have no knowledge of Dutch. That actually means that when there are meetings, there must be a meeting in French. However, Brussels is still officially bilingual, which is often forgotten. It is therefore logical that the second language of the country is also known by persons who have to perform such a function. When you come to Parliament with your plans, we will study them further. We'll keep following this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u37	Mr President, Minister, an alarm signal is being fired by the Monitoring Commission of the Marche-en-Famenne prison. This prison, which was recently set up, was intended in 2013 as a model for the settlement and management of the prison population. Of the seven directors who form the executive of the prison, one post is no longer filled. This creates difficulties in decision-making and, in particular, delays in opinions on leave and release, which is likely to increase prison overcrowding. For administrative staff, the framework includes 21 full-time equivalents (FTEs). For some time now, it has actually been 16 FTEs and the situation is not improving. For example, only five of the eight registrars are regularly employed. So almost half of the clerks are missing in this prison. The medical service is also understaffed, making it possible to open the prison's infirmary only from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. on weekdays. Apart from these periods, therefore, emergencies must be used, even for mild medical problems. This, of course, poses security problems and additional costs. Even surveillance personnel appear to be in serious shortages: out of 200 FTEs, only 188 are currently recruited. Taking into account illnesses and other leave, in reality only 155 FTEs are required to monitor the prison in normal times, which is a shortage of almost 25% of the surveillance posts! And the situation worsens even further during the summer months and during the holiday period. In addition to the general safety of the prison, which is thus in danger, further inconveniences have been observed. Detainee activities were abolished in July and August due to a lack of staff. Monitoring of the parlors, in particular those of lawyers, is no longer ongoing. The women's section of the prison, which is an important element, is left unsupervised at certain times, and the doorman is then given supervision. Minister, do you confirm the serious shortage of staff reported by the Supervisory Board? If not, can you specify the actual numbers that are in your possession for each of the categories I have just cited? For each of these categories – this is my most important question – what concrete steps are being taken to complete the legal frameworks as soon as possible? Finally, can a medical service worthy of that name be set up in the prison, in particular to provide care outside the opening hours of the infirmary, as specified above?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I confirm that the situation is delicate. In concrete terms, the supervision of the prison in Marche is set at 200 FTEs for the rank of supervisor. The actual filling of this frame is currently 185.20, representing a deficit of 14.80 FTEs or a filling rate of 92.6%. For the further implementation of the management framework, there is currently an ongoing "Attached Management Support" file, which will mean a strengthening of this framework in the short term. The following concrete steps have been taken to address this staff shortage. First, five one-year contracts were awarded for which four candidates were found. Two of them were declared unfit by Empreva. These three contracts will therefore be filled through a Rosetta procedure. Since the latter procedure is managed directly by the prison, it is quite possible that these three persons could begin in November. Secondly, a transfer from Brussels can be carried out on 15 January next. About ten employees indicated that they were interested in a transfer to Marche-en-Famenne. They have priority over new recruitments. As I have already pointed out, we are facing a blockage of deployments as a result of recruitment difficulties, particularly in Brussels institutions from which most of the mutations originate. At the end of this month, we will start a campaign to fill these places. This should make it possible to unblock. The administrative staff framework is set at 19 FTEs. There is currently a shortage of 4.45 FTEs. A procedure will be launched by the end of the week via internal mobility to allow people to take up their duties at the beginning of 2022. An administrative expert position will also be filled via a generic level B reserve, no later than next week. This should allow for entry into service also in early 2022. The nursing cadre is set at 4.5 FTEs. The workforce is 3.65 FTEs, which is equivalent to a shortage of 0.85% FTEs, but this workforce ensures operational operations. The hours of the infirmary are those in force since the rationalisation of the prisons. Outside of the opening hours of the infirmary, the doctor of the institution can be called, as he is always available by telephone. There is no provision for the establishment of a permanent child care service. The hours of attendance of medical and paramedical personnel have indeed been fixed in the labour regulations. There is no mention of the development of a child care facility. Any amendment to the labour regulations shall be subject to social consultation. In the Labour Regulations, an exception has been made for establishments with a medical centre where services continue to be provided. Marche Prison was not included in these exceptions because it does not have a medical centre. I am not aware of a specific problem in the medical service.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answers and for the accuracy of most of them. I am pleased to hear that short-term solutions are being considered for different positions. According to my information, the doctor you are talking about is apparently not reachable by telephone and the prison uses the city's medical guard services, which refuses to move to the prison and systematically returns to the hospital's emergencies. This can pose significant security and additional costs. Knowing the prison in Marche, especially for chairing the Complaints Commission of this prison, I can confirm that behind these figures are men, women, directors, employees, detainees who are all in arrears. As part of my duties and visits to the prison, I found that directors and other staff were on the brink of the burn-out and faced real difficulties. I will continue to monitor this problem because Marche Prison was a model when it was opened. It must remain so: an effective and humane prison. I am also aware that other problems, sometimes even more serious, are also present in other prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u40	Thank you for your personal report on this file. In particular, I will check the question about the unattainable doctor and provide you with more information about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u41	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u42	Mr President, first of all, I regret once again that we do not have the Minister with us live. I understand that he has a busy agenda, but if the other ministers and the Prime Minister can make the time to be here, then I think we can see the Minister more often and not from a different location. I come to my questions. Since the Constitutional Court, following the example of the European Court of Justice, destroyed the Belgian Data Retention Act for the violation of privacy, you have drafted a preliminary draft repair law. Not only did you want to address the problem of data retention; you also added an important paragraph which could undermine our security. You ask operators to build in some sort of back door, so that the government can read the communication more easily. That's gonna get us a lot of protests. Also in the newspaper we read that, if one undermines the strong encryption on which our economy spins, the whole pyramid will be knocked down. The fact that communication between people is encrypted and safe is not only useful to ward off criminals, but also gives each of us the assurance that what we say cannot be intercepted by foreign powers among others. The fact that so many data specialists and others have spoken on this issue makes me very concerned about the far-reaching steps you want to take. Can you explain why a passage was included in the preliminary draft data retention law which has nothing to do with it? Do you share the view that without compromising the security and privacy of all citizens, it is impossible to modify the provision relating to encryption? Why was the Data Protection Authority devastating for the preliminary draft? Do you wish to respond to the request that the text should simply be deleted from the preliminary draft? Can you explain why or why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u43	Mr Freilich, I have seen that you have asked for a hearing on this matter. Parliament, including you, will have ample opportunity to express its views on the text once it has been approved by the government and is discussed here. Following the judgments of the European Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court on data retention, we immediately started working on a preliminary draft law and asked for the opinions of the Council of State, the Data Protection Authority, the Police Information Control Body and the Standing Committee I. The latter two act as data protection authority for the specific police and intelligence sectors. The BIPT has conducted a public consultation through its website to give interested parties the opportunity to submit their comments. Several administrations have analysed all the opinions and comments in recent months. There were a lot of them. They are currently being discussed in working groups, in which both the administrations and the Cabinets participate. Moreover, it is not in the light of the judgments cited that encryption is now being discussed for the first time. That's where you're wrong. Indeed, the current Article 127 of the telecoms Act 2005 already clearly states that encryption can be used to ensure the security and confidentiality of communications. It is just that article that we want to update, given the rapid technological evolution from 3G over 4G to 5G and perhaps soon 6G. Colleague, I can reassure you, you can sleep on your two ears. Encryption of communication, including the so-called end-to-end encryption, is a necessary means to guarantee the digital security of citizens, businesses and government and will not be affected. At the same time, we want to give the competent security services the means to exercise their legal powers to protect our citizens, businesses and government in the fight against serious organised crime, against terrorism and in disappearance files. We require operators to secure their networks. We also ask those operators to cooperate with the Belgian Justice if there is a claim from a judge in the legally determined cases. However, we do not ask for an interception of the content of communication which would jeopardise the safety of the users of the system. That would not be proportionate, as the Data Protection Authority rightly pointed out. For the rest, I'm gonna ask for a little patience. Work is currently under way on the finalisation of the texts on data retention. Soon the government will be coming to Parliament with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u44	Minister, I will indeed show the necessary patience and wait for the final texts. You say that encryption is a necessary tool for our people; I fully agree with that. However, you also said that we must be able to go after criminals at the same time. How do we find the right balance? What are the right means to do that? I look forward to having that debate with you. Anyway, getting to the encryption for us is absolutely out of the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u45	Minister, I do not know if anything can be improved, but the translation services point out that the sound quality is not enough to ensure this translation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u46	Minister, your audio system is not working properly and it is not very comfortable for us; we are no longer confined and we would have great pleasure in seeing you in front of us! The Supreme Council of Justice has delivered its opinion on your proposed reform in the area of judicial organization. Like the Council, I welcome your decision to recruit more judges from the Federal Prosecutor's Office in order to combat cybercrime, a phenomenon that is growing. However, the Council points to the fact that the substantive judges will not see their staffing increase. We have already discussed in committee the workload of our magistrates. So, Mr. Minister, do you intend to increase the number of judges on the merits, in parallel with new recruitments in the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office? I'm all ears for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u47	Dear colleague, thank you for this question. In recent times, cybercrime is indeed one of the growing phenomena and we must arm justice to combat it. This is why, thanks to the budget for the strengthening of the justice system, an additional effort has been made to support the prosecutors' offices and the federal prosecutor's office. As you know, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office works throughout the country. There is therefore no parallel to any other court. With regard to headquarters, we have allocated resources for the general strengthening of courts and appellate courts, including the recruitment of referendums for courts of first instance and the strengthening of courts of appeal for complex cases. It is up to the College of Courts and Courts to allocate the resources according to the entities most in need. This is in any case what has been agreed within the framework of the autonomous management of the Judicial Order.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u48	Mr Minister, I thank you for this rejoicing response, which shows that you are concerned about the substantive judges and the courts in this country. As part of my professional activities, I will be able to see in my eyes how the courts are reorganizing their entire jurisdiction through the referendums that you have appointed there. I'll come back to you if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u49	Mr Minister, I should like to reply to a question a few weeks ago about the tolerance margins applied in various districts. Since January 2021, the Brussels Office has implemented a policy allowing a margin of tolerance for police zones. In concrete terms, the circular ensures that a margin of 10 kilometers per hour is added to the 6 kilometers per hour margin above the speed limit. Two weeks ago, in this committee, you indicated that the data on quotas and tolerance margins were collected by the expertise network of the College of Attorneys General. It was on the college's agenda a few days ago, I suspect. That's why I'm asking my questions again. Firstly, what are the quotas and the margins of tolerance per parquet? Secondly, what was decided on the basis of these results? Thirdly, what is your response to the results that have emerged?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u50	Mr Minister, my question is similar and I will not read it completely. I do refer to an earlier written question, in which I wanted to get an overview of the tolerance margins and quotas used per parquet. You informed me in writing that this question was not obvious, but that you had asked the College of Attorneys General to provide you with the information requested. To date I have not been allowed to receive this overview, hence the oral question to give me the relevant summary of the quotas and margins of tolerance used per parquet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your continued attention to this issue. I can assure you that this problem also enjoys my continued attention. Mr Raskin, as I said earlier, there was no central overview of existing quotas and margins of tolerance, let alone a centrally-driven policy, is correct. That's exactly what this government wants to change. We do this in the interests of road safety. In 2019, for corona, our country counted no less than 644 road deaths. This does not mean that we are going to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. We are systematically doing worse than the Netherlands, France and Germany. That is unacceptable. That is why this government wants to take a fundamentally different approach. That is why, first of all, I will shortly be submitting the draft law establishing a national traffic park in Parliament, so that uniform directives apply throughout the territory. Secondly, last Wednesday, on 20 October, a draft law was adopted in the Justice Commission to make justice faster, more humane and more criminal. Article 28 thereof clarifies the procedure in the event of an appeal against the order for payment in traffic cases. This technique, which relieves our courts, can therefore be applied again. Thirdly, therefore, I would also like to eliminate quotas and margins of tolerance, which, of course, make the technical margins abstract. Whoever drives 121 kilometers per hour on the motorway will not be flashed. Mr Raskin, what some of your colleagues are saying on social media is wrong. I want to introduce all these elements gradually but firmly. That is why we started a pilot project last week, as you saw. In seven places on the motorways, namely five in Wallonia and two in Flanders, the route checks now work 24 hours a day and 7 days a day and flashes at 129 kilometers an hour. The review of existing practices within the public prosecutors and police zones was discussed last week by the College of Attorneys General with the Council of Prosecutors of the King. The College asked the Council for its opinion on those existing quotas and margins of tolerance. The survey was provided to me this week by the College of Attorneys General, but with the express question by letter not to share the overview with the general public, in particular in the interests of road safety. Only with this interest in mind will I follow the explicit question put by the College of Attorneys-General in this matter, all the more so since we are currently working on a uniform policy that will systematically reduce existing margins and quotas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I regret that the College is asking you not to disclose those figures. I have the impression that some of the parquets might have something to hide. If the tolerance limits were reasonable, I do not see why the parquet would ask you not to share the figures. I suspect that some tolerance limits may be remarkably high. That's too bad. The argument that the College uses, namely security, is bizarre. After all, what puts road safety at greatest risk? Is that using perhaps excessive tolerance limits or communicating those tolerance limits in response to a parliamentary question? We really have a question here. You take this dossier to heart and want to fight against tolerance limits. We will support you in that. However, you must urge the prosecutors' office and the College of Attorneys-General to deal with these figures immediately, if they are so ashamed of it. Then in a few weeks or months, when we ask questions again, they should have no hesitation in communicating about these tolerance limits. Transparency must be there. I will continue to ask these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u53	Of course, Minister, you have an uncomfortable truth, especially that you cannot give the answer. You are trying to mask that somewhat by referring to your policy and to the upcoming supermarket and other legislative initiatives that should allow you to roll out your policy. It's all clear, that's already been in the paper and you like to communicate about it. However, if Members of this House, including those of the majority parties, want to ask questions here and have some transparency, you will fit in. Mr Van Hecke openly asked the question whether these parquets sometimes have something to hide. I have the same question. At different places in the country, however, there are very different margins of tolerance. It would be a good thing for you as a minister who is above battle and who really wants to do something about road safety if you were transparent about it. Now we have a pilot project, but the margins of tolerance, which seem to be a great state secret, remain in all those places where the experiment does not run. No one knows exactly how long. This is a missed opportunity to clarify this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u54	With stricter rules, public service broadcasting aims to help combat gambling addiction, for example by drastically reducing exposure to advertising for gambling. We have often debated it here in committee. They ensure that the amount of advertising will decrease, both on television and online. For the digital channels a reduction of 20% is planned. For VRT NOW no new gaming companies are allowed anymore. A number of issues will also be addressed in programme offerings and in screen faces. For example, programmers will be coached about approaching gambling behavior and addiction in their programs. These are a number of important steps forward. The VRT seems to want to do a number of things about gambling addiction. A number of months ago, in the run-up to the European Championships, a number of issues had been discussed which had not gone so well at the VRT. There was advertising. Wesley Sonck, for example, was a guest in a number of chat programs at the time, but at the same time was also shown in gambling advertisements. When we talked about this, you said: "The first preparations for stricter rules have started" and "On 7 September we met the aid sector to talk about the problem of gambling advertising, and on the basis of their input, a regulatory initiative is being developed in the coming months. It is also important that the economic and sporting effects of such a ban are properly assessed. That is why we will invest more in scientific research during this legislature." What pistes are being watched to restrict gambling advertising? Recent figures showed that this advertising had increased again, especially after the European Championship. The same applies to the number of new registrations. Would it, as with the VRT, be an option to phase out a number of cases? What budget do you spend or will you spend on scientific research? Have any investigations started yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u55	Minister, I was pleased when I heard that the VRT would reduce the gambling advertising. That seems to be a big and very important step. Anyone connected to the VRT will not be allowed to promote games of chance. After all, we had the incident with Wesley Sonck. You were very clear when we asked parliamentary questions about this. We also see evolutions in other European countries. In Italy there is a general ban on gambling advertising. The Flemish Expertise Centre also advocates this. In other countries, too, we note that the discussion on gambling advertising is under way. My questions must therefore be seen above all in the light of a European approach. Firstly, how do you monitor political developments in other European Member States regarding gambling advertising? Secondly, how do you work with your fellow Justice Ministers from other European Member States to tighten up gambling advertising? Has the subject been discussed at previous meetings of the Justice Ministers and do you feel that your colleagues are prepared to take a stricter approach? Thirdly, how do you work with other European countries that now want to take the lead or have already taken the lead, in particular with regard to gambling advertising at sporting events? Fourthly, will Belgium follow the hopeful evolution in some other countries and also tighten up gambling advertising, possibly at different stages? If so, when and how? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me be very clear: the government will effectively restrict gambling advertising. In fact, we made this commitment during the Budget Conclave a few weeks ago. We will indeed have a stricter policy on gambling advertising as the games of chance are more risky and addictive. This is the case for all games of chance offered by the private gaming operators and covered by the gaming law. I welcome the VRT's approach. The VRT will significantly reduce revenue from gambling advertising from 1 January next year, both on television and on online channels. For television, this means a major reduction in TV sponsorship by gaming companies: from three to one alliance partner. For the VRT's digital channels, such as Sporza.be, the VRT provides for an annual reduction of 20% and no new video advertising of VRT NOW is allowed to gaming companies. In order to support the VRT's initiative and to oblige other media companies to take similar initiatives, we will put in place legislation that will allow such gradual reduction of gambling advertising. A uniform approach to gambling advertising at European level is indeed the dream scenario. We have not yet discussed this, Mr Van Hecke, during the informal council (...). I hope that will be certain, but such a uniform approach is not an obvious scenario. However, this should not prevent us from taking initiatives of our own. Belgium has one of the strictest legislations in terms of gambling legislation in Europe, except for gambling advertising. Italy, Latvia and Lithuania have already introduced a ban on gambling advertising. Spain and the United Kingdom are also currently discussing a tightening of the rules on gambling advertising. It is therefore high time that we set a good example, but we do not make regulations from today to tomorrow. That requires preparatory work, research and consultation. In any case, it is my ambition to tighten the rules on gambling advertising against the World Cup 2022. I shall return to your question on scientific research, Mrs Depraetere. Soon the survey will start with the players included in IBIS. The results of this survey will be analysed by the universities. I agree with you that we need to invest more in scientific research in order to gain a better view of gambling behaviour in our country. Therefore, in 2022, a budget of EUR 106,000 will be allocated to scientific research and prevention campaigns.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u57	Minister, it would be a good ambition to take a number of initiatives on gambling advertising against the World Cup. After all, the number of new registrations after e.g. the European Championships and matches of Club Bruges in the Champions League, shows that there is a clear link between sports matches and gambling. With the World Cup coming up, that's not gonna get any better. That must be a very clear deadline, but it would be preferable to do so earlier of course. If we can put that forward, it is certainly a step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u58	Minister, I can understand that it is not easy to seek a uniform approach at European level. I only hope that initiatives in other countries can also give inspiration in Europe to pursue that line. That can also help us in Belgium. We do not need to wait for a uniform European approach. We can move on already. We will certainly support you in every step to further reduce gambling advertising. Ideally, we are doing this very quickly at 100%, but I also realise that it may have to go one step at a time. We support the goal of a strong tightening against the World Cup 2022. In other areas, too, there is a need for strings attached. Minister, our main enemies are the lobbyists, who will be fully involved in the coming weeks and months when they see legislative initiatives. We all have to fight these lobby groups together. We must pay particular attention to people's mental health and to the very serious consequences of gambling addiction. I'm calling on everyone to try and be immune to the lobby. This is how we move forward. You are quite immune to that, Minister, I know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u59	Minister, my colleagues Denis Ducrame and Sophie Rohonyi have joined me in my question on the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium (EMB). I have already asked you several times about the internal functioning of the EMB. You had answered very precisely all the questions that I asked you about situations that are still the subject of new disclosures today. You told me last April that the subside for the formation of imams had not been renewed this year. You told me that the use of the €192,000 2020 subsidy had to be verified. However, you also told me at the time that you were not aware of any particular accounting problems. But now we have all heard the Prime Minister say, "The Muslim executive works with public money, there can be no doubt about how these means are used. This kind of junk, we deserve better than that in our country." I would also like to ask you what progress has been made in the renewal process, when there was already more than a year behind and beyond mandates. You told me you had a meeting on February 5, if my notes are correct. But today we are eight months later and there is still nothing. Very sincerely, Minister, on April 28, I shared with you my impressions that the state was being driven by the current leadership of this institution. I don't know about you, but for me, today, it's not really an impression anymore. So there seems to be a new State Security report on the Islamic Information Centre, on influences and proximity to extremist networks, in particular in connection with a mosque in Limburg. It is therefore a real political Islamism, and partly radicalised, which is again pointed out by our services. Should we recall that this directorate is currently in charge of the management of the Great Mosque? The situation is actually deteriorating from day to day a little more for years. We cannot stay, you will grant me, in such a status quo, but we must act firmly. You are one of those who act firmly. We must do so all the more as a last element comes into play. While it appears from your statements and from the Prime Minister's statement that the EMB uses public means to spread radical and extremist religious messages, its members now respond that they will no longer seek public funds. It's an answer of contempt and finally a kind of confession. Could you then tell me what subsidies were granted to EMB in 2019 and 2020? What subsidies were granted (or not) in 2021? Are you aware that the EMB intends to sort of self-finance itself, in response to the suspension of the state subsidy? How do you explain that the renewal of the governing bodies is not yet announced? Specifically, what is the prescribed time between the announcement of a renewal of proceedings and the date of the election? What notices have been issued by your department and what specific requests contain any such notices? Who currently manages the imams in the country's schools and prisons, as well as their selection, training and supervision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u60	Mr Minister, the context has been brilliantly explained by my colleague. But what is happening is serious and I would therefore like to return to this context. The Commission Attentats had issued a series of recommendations on, inter alia, the issue of radicalism. Among them, Recommendation No. 143 requires that the monitoring of places of worship, especially those not officially recognized, be strengthened. The Commission also pointed out that all the progress that would be made with regard to the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium (EMB) and, more broadly, the organisation of the Muslim cult, can only be envisaged with a view to fair financing compared to the other religions recognized in Belgium. It was therefore logical for the Prime Minister, as he did in the plenary of the House on 7 October, to announce that the 2021 grant to the EMB would be frozen, amounting to EUR 250,000, pending a financial audit of the use of the subsidies granted for the year 2020. In our view, this freeze is also justified in the light of the State Security Report according to which the Limburg mosque of the President of the EMB is suspected of being close to the party of President Erdogan, but also to an ASBL responsible for the spread of extremist ideas, which explains your request for a thorough investigation. It follows quite logically that the relations between the Executive and your government have become quite tense, to such an extent that the President of the EMB - which is more worrying - said, as my colleague explained, that he no longer needed federal subsidies because they would create political interference and that "these 500,000 euros we will find them ourselves. We will not sacrifice our autonomy." Minister, do you confirm that an investigation is under way into the links between the Limburg mosque of the President of the EMB and possible extremist networks? Has the 2020 grant for EMB been fully paid? I note from the Royal Decree that the 10% subsidy was conditional on the submission of supporting documents before 30 June 2022. Have the exhibits already been disclosed? If so, have they already been checked? Have you been informed, other than by the press, of this decision of the EMB to dispense with federal subsidies for self-financing? Will you try to prevent this self-financing? If so, how? If not, how will you ensure control of private sources of financing, especially those from abroad? Is the Sûreté possibly prepared for it? When will the renewal of EMB bodies be carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u61	Colleagues, allow me to recall the answers that were given by the Prime Minister on October 7. He gave a correct summary of the situation. What the government wants is clear and fully reflects the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry to which you refer, that is, an executive of Muslims who is representative, professional and transparent. There is no room for interference from abroad. We have been clear about this with the Executive, but we see too few results with regard to the promised renewal. That is why I have officially notified the Executive twice: on 8 July and 4 October. In response to the second notice, I asked intelligence services to investigate the Executive and related structures – often dubious – in order to detect threats of extremism, espionage and interference. These steps were not taken lightly because I respect and will continue to respect the principle of religious freedom and the separation of church and state. But let us not forget that the federal government subsidizes the Executive, so it makes sense for me to ensure that public funds are used properly in the context of good governance. As far as executive subsidies and their control are concerned, I have already replied earlier that there is very strict control over the correct use of these subsidies. The annual accounts of the ASBL College of Executives are audited by an external auditor. Then my administration checks the accounts and receives advice from the Finance Inspectorate. Finally, the accounts are sent to the Court of Auditors for audit. At the moment, I am not aware of any misappropriation of funds by the Executive. With regard to the issue of foreign interference and extremism in the Executive, I have already made it clear that I will not tolerate any foreign interference or extremism. I have therefore asked the State Security for an opinion on the possible presence of foreign interference and extremism within the Executive. To answer Ms. Rohonyi's first question, it was an annual State Security Report in which the recognized mosques were investigated in the context of the assessment of their recognition. The mosque in Heusden-Zolden was described as an extremist because it was affiliated with a Turkish nationalist movement whose ideas are very similar to those of the Muslim Brotherhood, i.e. anti-Western, anti-Semitic and pro-charia. No further action has been requested by the State Security, but steps are nevertheless being taken with the local authorities and the Flemish Minister responsible for the recognition of the mosques concerned with regard to the mosque in question. This is the first question by Mr Pivin and the second question by Mr Rohonyi. In 2019, the Executive's operating subsidy amounted to €468,000. In 2020, it was €647,000. This is due to the fact that the €179,000 interdepartmental terrorism envelope, IDP-Terro, has been integrated into the operating subside. In the same year, an amount of 192,000 euros was also granted to the Executive for the AFOR civil formation, outside the theological formation of the ministers of the Islamic cult. Mrs Rohonyi, as provided for in the Royal Decree of 15 February 2016, the subside granted to the Executive is paid in two instalments: a first 90% in the course of March of the year to which the subside relates, a second 10%, after disclosure of the supporting documents relating to the expenditure of the year to which the subside relates. On 12 October, the supporting documents were transmitted by the Executive to the FPS Justice, which is currently reviewing the file. With regard to Mr Pivin's second question on the Royal Decree of 8 June 2021 on the allocation of EUR 589 000 for the operation of the Executive: 90% of this amount was paid. The 10% balance can only be paid after the accounts have been audited in 2022. With regard to the third questions by Mr Pivin and Mrs Rohonyi, I have not yet suspended the subsidies to the Executive, but I will not hesitate to do so if necessary. On 19 October, the President of the Executive said, during an interview, that he wanted to give up state subsidies. By saying that, of course, he is doing a very bad service to the Muslim community in our country. But in the meantime, contrary to the statements made to the press, the Executive informed me by letter of 22 October last that the renewal is under way and will be ready by the end of the year and that by the beginning of 2022 a whole new team will be set up. With regard to the foreign financing of the Executive, I await the report of the Security Council in order to see what possible approach I should take. Colleagues, I do not rule out any leads. A cessation of subsidies and withdrawal of the recognition of the Executive are options on the table. With regard to the fourth questions raised by Mr Pivin and Mrs Rohonyi, I have called the Executive on two occasions. I asked the Sûreté for a new analysis. I have less and less confidence in the current team to renew the Executive, despite the letter received on October 22. It is clear that only a brand new team can make real changes as promised. In response to Mr. Pivin's fifth question, I sent two formal notices. I asked, among other things, the Executive: 1. There should be no foreign interference in the institutions of the Executive and in the renewal process. 2. That the renewal process can really move forward. 3. That the representative body meet again in accordance with the rules of procedure. 4. That the report on the activities of AFOR be made available, as well as a detailed overview of the use of the subsidy to date and, if possible, the theological training programme. In response to Mr. Pivin's sixth question, the imams are still managed by the Executive as representative bodies of the Islamic cult, currently in day-to-day affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u62	Mr Minister, since the Commission was held, Belgium, by its Government and Parliament, has behaved fairly, openly and transparently with its interlocutors. It's not working! Four years later, the same problems continued. You indicated in your answer that you did not exclude any leads. I'll give you two. The first is to diligently investigate - through your services - the internal functioning, the use of public funds, the financing of the tentacular ASBL structures of the Executive and the control of the teaching of imams. The second track is to call the direction. Don't write to them anymore, call management to publicly recognize their need for subsidies. So far, they have shown - through their writings and statements - contempt for Belgium's loyal attitude, a very negative attitude for a Belgian Islam, a sign of rejection of the whole cultural framework that we respect in Belgium. I urge you to summon them at home because a proper convocation will be much better than a written letter posted and stamped with notice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u63	Minister, I, too, must thank you for your answer. Even if my party is in opposition, I would like to tell you how much we support the government in its willingness to make public funding of the EMB conditional on respect for the rules of transparency as well as human rights. This is a minimum consideration. It is only in this way that Muslims will finally recognize themselves in this institution which is supposed to represent them, beyond their differences, whether they are Shiites, Sunnis, Turkish, Maghreb, etc. This is absolutely not the case today and it is a real problem. If the State finances a cult, it is to ensure that it follows its social mission, that it acts at the service of its community and not at the service of purely personal interests, but also to prevent foreign countries such as Saudi Arabia, Qatar or the United Arab Emirates from intervening in the way Islam is to be interpreted in Belgium. The challenge is to have a Belgian Islam with imams trained in Belgium. In this regard, I am surprised that you explained to us that the first instalment of the subsidy is paid at 90% directly in March and that it is only for the remaining 10% that we must show a blank foot and file the supporting documents. In my view, this is not the best way to ensure that the funds are used properly, especially for the training of imams. For the rest, I invite you to take this debate into account in the broader context of the debate to be held in the context of secularism or state neutrality. We must then also dare to reflect on a real reform of the system of financing cults, in particular on the condition that their financing is conditional on respect for European democratic values. Finally, I hear that a whole new team is scheduled for 2022. I wish you every success in this endeavour. It is more than time for our Government to finally have calm and constructive relations with the body representing the important Muslim community in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u64	Questions Nos 55522138, 55022145, 55022155 and 55522157 by Mr Boukili are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u65	Minister, on 9 November it is 36 years since Aalst was shocked by an attack by the Gang of Nivelles. In the meantime, there is a new Delhaize branch in Aalst and on that day a memorial is inaugurated for the victims of that attack. The judicial investigation is continuing. In the newspaper I read that the detectives have meanwhile collected four hundred DNA samples from eight hundred potentially interesting individuals. There are also court excavations, including to a postman who was a member of Front de la Jeunesse. In total, about 20 excavations have been done. Yet there is still no breakthrough. The victims are increasingly questioning the large-scale DNA collection, because they have the impression that there is a search in all directions and are losing the courage that the dossier will be resolved by 2025, when the limitation period expires. Mr. Secretary, can you give us the recent state of play on the investigation of the Gang of Nivelles? In April 2020, the then Minister of Justice replied to my question that the research cell consists of 27 investigators. Recently, I read in the newspaper that there are 20 detectives working on the file. The then Minister of Justice said that there would be a monitoring committee to see if there would be any need for staff adjustments. How many detectives are working on that investigation now? Was that number adjusted, and if so, for what reason? DNA samples are now being searched in, among other things, extreme right-wing youth organisations. Is there, therefore, a rethink in the direction of a terrorist attack? Could that give rise to the recognition of the attacks by the Gang of Nivelles as terrorist attacks?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u66	Mrs Vanrobaeys, in reply to your question on the latest state of affairs, I may not surprise you if I say that the investigation is secret, which means that I cannot give you a state of affairs, just in the interest of the investigation. The investigation was entrusted to the federal prosecutor. The federal prosecutor will do everything in his power to obtain clarification and bring those responsible to justice. Moreover, we are kept informed of this policy by the federal prosecutor, and you can be sure that the dossier will receive our full attention. Indeed, there are fewer investigators working on the file than two years ago, mainly due to mutations of some members of the cell. The monitoring committee shall monitor whether the number of investigators is sufficient to cope with the amount of investigative work. If necessary, people will be added. This is constantly monitored so that the investigation can continue in a thorough manner. You assume that the investigators suspect that the attacks would come from the extreme right, due to the fact that DNA would be collected or taken from persons formerly belonging to the Front de la Jeunesse. I do not want to go into the judicial investigation, but that conclusion must be contradicted. As I said earlier, the basis of the broad DNA campaign is that of those who appear as suspects in the file, and not just those who belonged to the Front de la Jeunesse. The question of whether the attacks should be regarded as terrorist attacks cannot therefore be answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u67	36 years after the massive bloody attack in Aalst, anchored in the collective memory, the victims want the truth and recognition. The number of detectives has been reduced and is being monitored permanently. Hopefully, the unsubs can still be caught before the birthday. Yet sometimes the courage falls into my shoes, just like with the victims. I'm still hopeful. I am not asking for recognition as a terrorist attack because of the issue of money for the victims. Several theories go in that direction. Because of the traumas they have suffered there, they feel strongly connected to victims of terrorist attacks. In fact, they want some kind of centre of expertise that can follow them along and give them the space to share experiences with other victims of terrorist attacks, so that they could come out stronger together. Finally, we cannot deny that the whole of the investigation is characterised by an accumulation of mistakes and blunders. It would really be a step forward for the victims if that were acknowledged and the government would apologize and admit that a lot of mistakes have been made and read the investigation as a blunderbook. The government must acknowledge how long the victims have been waiting for the truth and assure them that they will continue to do their best with the investigation. A kind of general pardon, 36 years after the facts, would mean a lot to the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u68	Question No 55022256C by Mr Ducarme and questions Nos 5502260C and 5502264C by Mrs Rohonyi are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u69	Mr President, I shall begin with the first question. Dear colleague, I would like to reassure you: I am very attentive to the remarks and recommendations made by the Central Prison Supervision Board (CCSP). To ensure regular monitoring of this body, one of my collaborators serves as a link with the Council. I also ensure that the administration has frequent meetings with this criminal policy partner. In concrete terms, I was able to look at the content of the report that you mentioned before it was published, since article 22 of the Internal Status Act of 12 January 2005 provides for me to make comments on it. My comments can be found in their entirety in the published report. The report contains no fewer than 43 recommendations, some of which are divided into general and specific recommendations. Some recommendations, such as those related to the staffing of the CPSC, are not within my purview. Others, such as those related to institutional repairs, are ongoing and will therefore remain a permanent focus. Finally, others, such as (...) video calls, are already active and will remain active. To best manage all of these recommendations, I have asked my administration to prepare an action and follow-up plan. He's in preparation. Therefore, relatively frequent meetings are held between the CPSC and the Directorate-General for Penitentiaries, so that the latter can communicate on the (...) projects under way. As for the other texts, I should like to ensure that the necessary information is provided on a regular basis. Thus, the vision text on detention centres was communicated as soon as it was validated. I stress that it is sometimes difficult to know what text to communicate at what time. Thus, the two texts you are quoting, the one on the reform of the Criminal Code and the one on the Code of Criminal Procedure, are not exactly texts in the field of prison policy. The question therefore arises as to whether and when to communicate them. I believe that the procedure will be refined as meetings and practice progress. In any case, know that I will continue to be attentive and proactive in this regard. As for your second set of questions on this subject, ministerial circulars and collective letters will soon be published on the FPS Justice website in order to give them all the publicity they deserve. However, it is currently difficult to determine the exact time frame within which this can be achieved because it will depend on the technical adaptations required, but I will not fail to keep you informed of the programming schedule as soon as it is established. DG PPE's annual reports as published until 2017 will no longer be published in their old form. Qualitative information, for example on projects in prisons, is included in the annual report of the FPS Justice. On the other hand, the relevant figures on prison activity will soon be available again on the Justice FPS website on a regular basis. In concrete terms, data for 2018 and 2019 will be available at the beginning of November. With regard to your third set of questions, 508 detainees were able to benefit from the interruption of the execution of the sentence as established by Royal Decree No. 3 of 9 April 2020 under the special powers. As a reminder, the period concerned runs until 30 June 2020. In addition, 493 detainees were able to benefit from the interruption of the execution of the sentence as established by the Act of 20 December 2020 on various provisions. This is the period up to 15 September 2021. It is not possible to draw quantified conclusions from the revocation of the interruption of the sentence. As for your second question, as at 15 September 2021, 178 convicted persons were scheduled to return to prison. Only 15 did not introduce themselves. It is not possible for me to provide you with figures for exceptional outings because these figures are not available either. To answer your third question, the granting of leave and prison leave is part of the social reintegration project of each convicted person. This grant is therefore examined individually, including the frequency of such award. With regard to the suspension of detention periods, it should first be noted that, although the law provides that limited detentions may also be suspended, this has not occurred in practice. Limited detentions were thus allowed to continue during periods of suspension. The risk of infection could be neutralized for this group of convicts via compartmentalization. With regard to leave and prison leave, it may be recalled that directors could at any time grant an exception to the suspension, not only when urgent and humanitarian circumstances warranted it, but also when the suspension could seriously endanger the social reintegration of the person concerned. This possibility was far from anecdotal, since, between 24 December 2020 and 30 June 2021, no fewer than 3,540 outputs were authorised. The table will be provided to you. At the end of the second wave, convicts were able to resume leave and prison leave in a more structural manner, provided that they were in accordance with their social reintegration plan and allowed them to move forward. The suspension has never been total. At the end of the respective suspension periods, the Directorate-General of Penitentiary Institutions also provided for the possibility of continuing to take saved leave. In other words, leave that the inmate was unable to take during periods of suspension is not permanently lost. He somehow saved them and was able to take them as soon as they recovered. The rules for taking such leave have been designed as flexibly as possible. The combination of these two measures has effectively offset the consequences of the suspension measure. In addition, of course, mention should be made of the interruption of the covid-19 sentence, which was granted to convicted persons who met the requirements; the most important criterion is the completion of the prison leave during the last six months or three prison leave periods. Of course, this measure was also, in a sense, a compensation for the restriction or suspension of exit arrangements. As a result of these suspensions, maximum efforts were also made to monitor social reintegration, including when the offender had used this measure to find employment or receive training. On your second question, with regard to the restrictions on the internal legal status resulting from the measures necessary to combat coronavirus, efforts have been made to compensate for these restrictions as much as possible while they were still in force. I would then like to remind you that when the outings and visits were limited, all the detainees were granted a telephone credit of 10 euros a week in order to maintain telephone contact with family and friends. In the first wave, this credit was granted five times and eight times in the second wave. The amount of EUR 1.3 million is therefore referred to as EUR 10.000. Secondly, very quickly, video visits were set up in each prison. These visits were quickly successful and their added value is indisputable. They will therefore be maintained. Apart from these elements, no further compensation is envisaged. I will give you the number of written permissions, as a conclusion. Here, dear colleague, are my answers to your four sets of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u70	I would like to thank you, Minister, for your very detailed answers and for having misled what is usually done by answering me orally, even though I had questions about the numbers. I intend to look at the data, tables and others that you can transmit to me. To return to the referral to the Central Prison Supervision Board (CPSC) for advice, I have heard what you are saying about frequent meetings between your office and the CPSC. With regard to your communications of the texts after they have been validated, it seems to me that in order to enable the CPSC to make the most useful presentation of any relevant comments that could improve the text, it would be interesting to have them intervene before the text is definitively validated in government in order to include their possible comments in the provisions. A discussion with CPSC members leads us to believe that they are very open and ask to be asked about the various legislative approaches we are taking. You mentioned the reform of the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure as not being prison policy texts. Of course, but it cannot be denied that they have enormous implications for prison policy. If there is any doubt as to whether or not the CPSC can give opinions, it seems to me that they can be asked if they consider it useful to intervene. Where appropriate, a CPSC opinion may be relevant, even in texts that do not always appear to be directly related to prison policy. With regard to the report and publications on the websites, I note that DG PPE's annual report will no longer be systematically published in the old form, but will be incorporated into the annual report of the SPF Justice. I am not sure I understand whether it is a separate party or whether the annual report of the Court of Justice will have to look into DG PPE. It may be a little less practical than before, but it's already good if it's published. I am glad to hear you say that the figures will again be regularly published and updated and that this will make up for the delay in recent years as of next month. As for what you have told me about the interruptions in the execution of the sentence, I will look at the figures. I won't comment on them here. With regard to my last question concerning possible compensation, I thank you for detailing the various measures that have been taken in the direction of such compensation, including telephone credits. I continue to believe that this is probably not a level of compensation that can be sufficiently satisfactory for everyone. I would not be surprised if we were to face certain disputes with a view to obtaining better redress. Time will tell us. Thank you for all the elements you have given me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u71	Mr Minister, the press reported last week an emblematic case of the backlog of cases before the Court of Appeal in Brussels. At the only tax division of the Court of Appeal, a file was fixed in 2033, 12 years from now! Law professionals, like lawyers, are not surprised at this situation, but they say how difficult it is for them to make this situation known to their clients. Currently, the Court of Appeal deals with the cases introduced in 1990! It is, in this backlog, a genuine denial of justice that is totally detrimental to the parties and whose cost and financial consequences can be catastrophic. Minister, what is the status of the recruitment of 1,400 people for justice, including 116 magistrates, which you announced last June? What structural solutions are you going to bring to these situations that have been known for years but are getting worse over time? Should we not create new chambers in the Court of Appeal with judges and qualified staff to limit this backlog?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u72	Dear colleague, with regard to your first question, some of the positions of magistrate are assigned to the Public Prosecutor's Office. With regard to headquarters, some publications have been carried out with additional budgets for strengthening the judiciary. I can provide you with a written statement of the situation. I can already give you some figures: 2 pending distribution, 31 publications in preparation, 34 published, 9 nominated and 2 without presentation. As regards specifically the fight against the backlog in Brussels, an additional budget has been provided for the judges of the Brussels Court of Appeal and the Brussels Labour Court. For judicial staff, additional budgets have been provided for the contractual vacancies of the Registrars and Assistants in the same entities: 4 Registrars and 4 Assistants for the Brussels Court of Appeal and 1 Registrar and 1 Assistant for the Brussels Labour Court. Selection procedures are currently under way. We are taking legislative initiatives for magistrates because the legal framework is full at present. With regard to your second question, as you know, we are tackling the backlog in general from various angles: by working towards digitalisation, by strengthening alternative dispute resolution methods such as mediation, by encouraging the application of the immediate reaction policy and the accelerated procedure. We support magistrates by providing them with referenda and prosecutors. Furthermore, you are aware that the Supreme Council of Justice is conducting an audit of the backlog of the Brussels Court of Appeal. We expect a first report by the end of the year. We will, of course, consider the recommendations that will be made and those that we can respond to. On your third and final question, the management and organization of the court is the responsibility of its first president. I've already made provision for ways to strengthen the court.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u73	Minister, you do not seem to be shaken by the fact that, in tax matters, the time limit for a case is 2033. We knew the existence of the backlog, but we wonder if it is conceivable so completely abracadabrantesque. It's a denial to all the parties involved. It's inexplicable! I hear you have taken some steps, including the recruitment of 1,400 people. You're going to send the numbers in writing, but I've heard a few numbers that you're quoting. This is not to the extent of what was announced. As far as structural solutions are concerned, they seem to me to be extremely weak at this stage. I assume and hope that there will be real structural solutions in the report of the High Council to move towards something that will make the system more effective. Preparing bills on human justice, quick and effective, and having to wait several decades to get the answer to a trial, is somewhat paradoxical. You are obviously not responsible for the present situation, but you have now the responsibility for what will happen tomorrow. We intend to come back to this problem very regularly. We know that he is one of the poor parents of justice: the executives, the commitments of magistrates and judicial personnel, in a comprehensive way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u74	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u75	Mrs Bury, on behalf of the government, you ask me to take a position on the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights. I hate to repeat myself, but I will. It is not for the Minister of Justice to comment on legal statements, let alone to take a position on them. The separation of powers commands me. I respect that rule, not only out of respect for the rule of law, but also out of respect for the victims. It would not benefit justice if the Minister made a public statement. In the case in question, the Belgian State is not a party and the proceedings have not yet been definitively closed. You yourself ask yourself that there is still a possibility for the victims to appeal. The judgment of the European Court to which you refer dates from 12 October. The reference to the Grand Chamber may still be requested within three months of the judgment being delivered. The victims still have that option today. By the way, the premise from which you leave in your first question is not correct. "The fact that the victims have not been able to assert their grievances in our national, civil proceedings" is not due to the immunity of the Holy See. The European Court of Justice, in its judgment of 12 October 2021, states that this is the result of incorrect compliance with the rules of the Court's Code with regard to the subpoena. Not the Holy See in the Vatican City State had to be subpoenaed, according to the Court. The Court also states that the substantive rules on civil liability were not complied with by the applicants in their summons. If the claim had been admissible, nothing shows that the Belgian courts could not have examined the case on the substance. According to the European Court, the applicants could therefore have made their complaints in a national civil procedure if other legal choices had been made by the applicants in their summons. I do not wish to underestimate the seriousness of the allegations made by the applicants, nor do I criticize their methods, quite the contrary. I am merely reading the Court's considerations. This shows very clearly that Belgium has not left the victims at all without a possible remedy. You can, of course, comply with the Court's detailed statement of reasons in the judgment. On your second and third questions, it should be noted that the European Court of Justice considers that the court of first instance and the court of appeal in Ghent have applied only the generally recognised principles of international law concerning state immunity correctly. The Belgian State does indeed regard the Holy See as a state. That doesn't create legal uncertainty. It is an internationally recognised principle of law that it is not for the national court to rule if there is State immunity. The immunity of the Holy See does not mean that the victims of sexual violence would be denied access to justice in Belgium and that they would not have any legal remedy in Belgium. That is not correct, for they can, for example, subpoena the national responsible persons in the Catholic Church or file a legal complaint against them. I refer to my answer to your first question. Moreover, in addition to civil proceedings, criminal proceedings still exist. To date, there has been a criminal investigation on which I cannot pronounce as Minister of Justice. It is, after all, still at the stage of the judicial investigation. Victims can therefore still receive recognition and compensation in this procedure. So let the judiciary do its job. Finally, victims also have access to the Centre for Arbitration on Sexual Abuse, which was founded in March 2011 (...) the Catholic Church. That centre deals with individual requests to find a solution for the compensation of victims who could not bring proceedings for limitation or death of the offender.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u76	Mr Minister, I see that you have looked through the dossier very carefully, which is very important. You say that admissibility is important and that state immunity does not at all create legal uncertainty for the victims, but that is what it is. You also refer to the criminal procedure and the judicial investigation. I wonder how long that has been going on, because that is not progressing. It shows the complexity of the file. It is not possible for everything to drag on and at the end of the journey we will be faced with a statute of limitations. Given the complexity of subpoenaing the Church and the debate on admissibility, it is up to the Belgian State to approach the victims. You yourself say that you will not trivialize it, because it is about very bad things. If there are riots in Brussels, Minister Verlinden poses a bourgeois party, even if the government is not directly involved. Then why aren't you doing anything here? It is the most important task of the government to protect its citizens. Of course, an appeal procedure is still possible, but the Belgian State would be better prepared to stand up for the victims. That will also give you an answer to another question. If we want to restore confidence in justice, we can only do so if we help those victims and seek solutions with them, so that justice and justice can be restored.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u77	Mr President, Minister, last Thursday in plenary I listened very carefully to the Secretary of State and the two ministers. There a number of dots were listed. Since they were not clear to me, I asked you this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u78	Mr President, Mrs Bury, the texts are more than 20 years old. As a basis, laws such as those of 1888 introducing conditional release and those of 1964 for the protection of society are still cited. In other words, it is high time to update these references. The same texts provide for accompanying committees, which draw up reports and make recommendations which need to be thoroughly analysed in order to identify which elements need to be amended. As has already been said, we are already working on this with the Flemish Community and several working groups regularly come together to determine the changes that are needed. On the French-speaking side we have also just started, the invitations to Brussels are on their way and the German-speaking Community forwarded draft texts at the beginning of this summer. The aim is to determine as soon as possible what the needs are and how best we can work together to improve the effectiveness of these crime scenes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u79	Minister, you remain rather vague. The lyrics are 20 years old, I know. You want to identify the needs. There's been a lot of time together. But what concrete changes can result from that, how we strengthen things, what can be concretely strengthened and the concrete timing, I did not hear that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u80	Questions Nos. 55022322C by Catherine Fonck, 550222334C by Simon Moutquin and 55022337C by Sophie De Wit are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u81	Mr President, my colleague, the central element of this approach to Code 37 is the combination of the optimal use of highly technical forensic scientific analyses available and the centrality of existing contextual information. The Code 37 pilot project conducted in Antwerp shows that the focus in moral cases was almost exclusively on the presence or absence of human semen. Moreover, when the forensic analysis had failed to produce the desired results, the case was quickly closed. From a technical-scientific point of view, this is particularly remarkable. Rape or assault involves close contact between the victim and the aggressor. Therefore, the risk of DNA transfer is high. Of course, this biological matrix is an essential element, but its absence does not preclude the possibility of moral facts. The absence of human semen is not equivalent to the absence of male genetic material potentially derived, for example, from saliva found on the epithelium. In the cases dealt with under the Code 37 pilot project, the victim was in 92 per cent of cases a woman. Within this sexual assault group, three main categories of rape cases were identified: the files of which the perpetrator was unknown, the files of which sexual contact was challenged, and the files of which consent was challenged. For each category, an optimized contextual investigation strategy has been developed and an approach plan has been developed to best deal with the available DNA traces in which the request for investigation, the context of the case and the story of the victim and suspect(s) are imaged. All aspects of the actions taken are illustrated and, in the course of the investigation, the elements on which the investigation is focused and its scope are determined accordingly. The forensic expertise in question is broader than mere genetic identification. For example, toxicologists may also be interviewed. The steps are ranked according to the extent to which they could be decisive and present a greater chance of success. It is clear that if the first step leads to nothing, it does not stop, but the next step may be an option. If it is not possible to add value to the dossier from a forensic point of view, this will be clearly communicated to the parties concerned. It would be very interesting to go into the details, Mr Goffin, but it would take us too far. The success of this approach can be explained by a structural consultation between the magistrate, investigators and forensic experts, and by a definition of clear research questions for forensic experts. This approach requires intensive monitoring, adjustment to results and coordination, and communication among all stakeholders. All the prosecutors of the King of Belgium were informed of the operation and results of the pilot project conducted in Antwerp. Due to the complexity and extensive use of labour required in this approach, it is not possible to extend this method of work at the national level in a hurry. Therefore, we are taking a step-by-step approach. The separate consultations planned by the public prosecutor's office are under way with the latter, which have so far responded positively to the explanation of the pilot project. These interested prosecutors have the choice between an implementation with a permanent processing of all the files known as Code 37 with DNA traces taken in accordance with the approach of the pilot project or an ad hoc processing of this type of case in which only those files which are rejected for technical reasons will be subject to a forensic opinion. Code 37 will be deployed at national level with a budget of €630,000. NCIC plans to recruit five new staff, namely two scientific staff, two ADN experts and one administrative staff member. The call for applications is ongoing. In accordance with the Act of 31 July 2020, each magistrate has an obligation to receive training on domestic and sexual violence. In April and June of this year, the Judicial Training Institute organised the first module out of all three. Modules 2 and 3 are in progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u82	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u83	Mr. President,
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the period of judicial leave runs from 1 July to 31 August of each year. During this period, the courts remain open and most of the staff continue to work. However, he works on an appropriate schedule and priority is given to urgent matters. It seems to me that the planned changes in school holidays in the French Community will not have a direct impact on the organisation of the judicial order and the planning of judicial leave. It is the responsibility of the heads of corps to ensure the proper functioning of their jurisdiction and to plan the leave of their judges and staff, taking into account the principle of continuity of the judicial service and the service of assistance to litigants. The duration of the judicial holidays is set out in article 334 of the Judicial Code, which states: "The judicial year begins on 1 September and ends on 30 June. [["]] The concept of judicial vacation must be distinguished from that of leave. Article 334 of the Judicial Code further states that – I quote – "From 1 July to 31 August, courts and tribunals hold vacation hearings". In addition to these vacations, courts and tribunals continue to hold a number of hearings, including in the correctional chamber, in the presence of a pre-trial accused, in the chamber of counsel or in the indictment chamber, with regard to the examination of pre-trial detention. Judges are also taking advantage of the declining pace of hearings in July and August to update their offices by, for example, drafting motions, conclusions or judgments that have been left pending for lack of time in the course of the judicial year. These tasks are carried out with the support of administrative staff. Thus, judicial leave no longer means two months' vacation for magistrates and judicial officers. Parents of children in school are and will continue to be required to make organizational arrangements at the family level to ensure partial reconciliation of their leave with those still and even more numerous of their child(s). The change in the length of school holidays in the French Community will therefore have no impact on the system of judicial leave. In other words, the ongoing reform of the length of school holidays in the French Community does not reduce the need to review judicial holidays, which are not confused with holidays. As regards your second question, since the ongoing reform of the length of school holidays in the French Community does not lead to the need to review the judicial holidays, the consultations between the heads of departments or bodies, the workers and magistrates concerned will not change the holidays in 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u85	Mr President, Minister, thank you for this particularly clear and reassuring answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u86	Ms. Sophie Rohonyi's questions 55022343C and 55022375C were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u87	Mr President, Minister, in the press we can read such headlines as: "Most isolation cells in Belgian prisons are incompatible with human dignity". These titles and the accompanying articles echo the new report of the Central Penitentiary Supervision Council (CCSP) on the use of punishment and security cells in Belgian prisons. In one of them, the director of the CPSC reports the recent case, observed at the Tongres prison, of an inmate in the dungeon who was not dressed and had found no other way to warm up but to cover himself with toilet paper! This is an example, but I have had the opportunity to go through the report, its conclusions and recommendations, which span about fifteen pages; it is impossible to review them all here. The report highlights the remarkable efforts made by the directorates and concludes that, despite these efforts, urgent and longer-term changes are necessary in the current use and condition of cells, which do not guarantee the treatment of detained and even interned persons in accordance with human dignity and fundamental rights. The report has just been released; the CPSC published it on its website on Monday. It's 200 pages. Minister, of course I do not expect you to have an answer to everything. However, could you tell me to what extent the ongoing or planned actions meet the CPSC's concerns to improve the situation, and to what extent further improvements will be planned as a follow-up to this report? I think, in particular, of the following recommendations: the need for a systematic registration of persons placed in isolation or punishment cells; the urgent need to improve the material conditions in cells, whether they are bedding, brightness, ventilation or heating, awareness of the time that passes, hygiene, sanitation, etc.the need for an evaluation of the use of isolation cells; the need to limit the use of these cells in order to make them superfluous in the long term and to identify alternatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u88	Mr President, Mrs Hugon, the report to which you refer was presented on a very interesting morning of study last Saturday. Both my administration and my strategic cell were present. I therefore had a direct and comprehensive feedback on the debate that followed the presentation of the report. As for the recommendations made in this report, you can imagine that with 17 general recommendations and 44 specific recommendations, after having read these proposals, I cannot already say which ones will be implemented and within what time frame. I will, of course, pay particular attention to the follow-up to this report. On the particular points that you are raising, dear colleague, I would like first of all to stress that the systematic registration of persons in these cells is a legal obligation and prisons stick to it. Similarly, each prison maintains a register of the persons who visited the detainees. This register also contains the reasons why the detainee left the punishment cell with an indication of the start and end time. During the daily visit by the director under article 137, § 2, the detainee may himself make reference to the observations concerning his condition and his situation on this form. Persons or bodies responsible for the supervision and control of prisons, the execution of sentences and custodial measures may request to see this form throughout the duration of the disciplinary sanction. They may record their own observations as well as those of the inmate. As for the material conditions of these cells, they are the subject of special attention on the part of both my administration and that of the Régie des Bâtiments in charge of the infrastructure, mainly in the oldest prisons. In the context of prison master plans, the adaptation of the spaces in which the detainees stay, including the punishment cells, is planned in accordance with the material standards as defined in the Royal Decree of 3 February 2019. On the need for an evaluation, I think that the evaluation carried out by the Central Penitentiary Supervision Board is already a good basis for work. Finally, on the need to avoid the use of these cells, I would like to point out, as the Director did at this conference, that this sanction is being used less and less frequently. The director cited a decrease of almost 80% in her institution, while noting that, unfortunately, these cells may still have to be used in some serious cases, sometimes to protect the inmate against himself or other inmates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic623x.u89	Minister, thank you for starting to look at the important content of this new report. You're telling me that systematic registration is a legal obligation. This is the case, but it does not seem to be sufficiently implemented. So there are checks to be made. With regard to the evaluation of cell use, the work of the CPSC is certainly very important in this context, but I was thinking of an evaluation conducted by your administration. It is interesting to know that one of the directors told you that the use of solitary confinement was becoming less frequent. You're talking about a decrease of almost 80%. This is very positive, but I have the impression that this remains an individual decision of a management in his prison and perhaps there would be things to do to reduce this remedy in general in all institutions. When I read the report this Monday, I could not help but make the link with a report made five years ago by the monitoring committee of the Forest prison on the state of the dungeons. I will quote from the report: "Cachots are old, dirty, inhuman, both in wing C and in the psychiatric annex. Situations correspond to normal or regular situations. Under no circumstances are these accidental or isolated situations. Action must be taken without delay." Five years later, the similarities are unfortunately evident with the situation described in this new report. I hear you and encourage you to continue with the measures taken. I encourage you to encourage directions to reduce the use of isolation cells. I also think that in the new constructions there will be less or more at all. Finally, I make the link with the situation described in this report and the need to finally land the process of ratification of the OPCAT Additional Protocol and to create the independent preventive body which will have the task of monitoring all places of deprivation of liberty and hence the isolation cells, which are a deprivation of liberty within a place of deprivation of liberty. I will allow myself to come back to you to take stock of this OPCAT dossier, which is of great importance to me.
