ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u1	Madam Minister, I refer to the written version of my question for the simple reason that it was submitted a while ago and was already reported in the media about the probable cause. I look forward to your answer, possibly supplemented by the latest developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u2	Madam Secretary, on 24 April a fire broke out during exercises by the 11th Battalion Genie at the Groot Schietveld in Brecht. Eventually, more than 570 hectares of precious nature would enter the flames, including 15% of the dry heath in Flanders, a natural area that is essential even on a European scale for a wide range of special plant and animal species. When the media reported that Defense would have used phosphorous munitions wrongly, against the rules of code yellow, which was fortunately later clarified as a tracking munitions, it provoked indignation and incomprehension on the part of the citizens vis-à-vis the Defense Department. Defence has already announced that it will contribute to the restoration of the natural value of the Great Shooting Field and that it will use sheep, among other things, to suppress grass growth. The DOVO had old ammunition cleaned up in preparation. It goes without saying that we must do everything possible to restore nature in the area. Everyone benefits from a rapid clarification of events, Madam Secretary. What efforts will the Defense, together with Flanders, make to restore nature? The investigation is ongoing. Yet the news already came out that misuse of tracking ammunition would be the direct cause of the fire. A mistake, as was said later. How could the wrong ammo be selected? Was that because of the wrong stockage, incorrect color codes on the bullets or ignorance? Why wasn't the error corrected after the first shots? What concrete recommendations and possible investments will you make to increase security in the defence shooting grounds? The shooting exercises were resumed, but not yet in the heathland itself. When does the Defense expect to be able to re-use the domain fully? How does that affect the training? It will take at least ten years and five million euros to restore the severely damaged nature on and around the military domain of Brecht. These are the first, cautious findings of the Natural and Forest Research Institute (INBO) and the Nature and Forest Agency (ANB). Do you share that analysis, Madam Secretary? Do you consider the damage reversible? What's your estimate of total damage? The surrounding municipalities of Brecht and Wuustwezel had already set themselves a bourgeois party. The Flemish government is also failing to do so. We assume that it can become an insurance technical issue. What can Defense be held to in the event of a conviction? How can the department bear these costs? To what extent is the DOD insured against such incidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u3	The more we find out about the fire, the more likely it is that the real cause lies in failing to follow the procedures or the wrong choice of ammunition. The argument that there was a fire truck is actually something besides the issue. As I said last time, the Department of Defence does not have to deal with first-line fire-fighting; good agreements can be made with fire-fighting forces. However, it is very important to follow the procedures and the arrangements. That's what it's suspended on, perhaps. The previous speaker has already referred to the possible wrong choice of ammunition. Could you perhaps say something about that, Madam Secretary? Another point concerns the colour codes. I understand the DOD has a different procedure than the ANB. I don't know. That sounds weird to me. Even more strange is the statement of some soldiers that there may have been confusion between the color codes green and yellow. However, everyone could see that at that time nature was cork dry. That was certainly the remark of Governor Berx and the rangers and mayors. It seems strange to me that at such a time people are discussing whether the code should be green or yellow, while the situation clearly pointed to a code of yellow or even orange. That leads me to conclude that we need to draw up a clear fire-fighting plan, with greater attention to procedures and clear agreements. That must have taught us the incident, as far as today is not yet the case. Finally, Mrs Demir is failing to do so. Has that question gotten to you yet? Or did Mrs Demir just send out a press text and was that a way for her to get the media? By the way, that really bothered me. Is that the way governments deal with each other by fighting a little war in the media? It would be more logical and professional if one waited for the research and then together examined how we could restore nature and who would pay for what costs. We would therefore like to see a state of affairs on demand from Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u4	Madam Minister, I agree with the questions that Mr Verduyckt has just raised. It is mainly about procedures and agreements. The good news is that something can be done about this and that effective measures can be taken to avoid such incidents in the future if it is confirmed that they are the cause. However, that must be done. Clarifications on colour codes and clear guidelines on exercise ammunition should be included in the procedures. I just wanted to add one more question. What was the exact reason why the fire department was notified after 15 minutes? However, I understand that the investigation has not yet been formally completed. If you can give us any information about this, we are happy to hear them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u5	Madam Minister, before my introduction I would like to refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u6	However, I would also like to mention the following. In view of the events of the last few days and weeks and what has come to light in connection with the disaster at the Groot Schietveld in Brecht, we must nevertheless talk about serious internal miscommunications with the Defense about the procedures to be followed and about the possible ammunition used or not on the ground. Lighttrack munitions were reported to have been used. Firstly, Madam Minister, how can a case of internal miscommunication once again lead to a major crisis such as the Brecht fire? Why is the correct information about the yellow fire code and the ban on the use of light rail munitions not correctly transmitted? How far is the investigation with the DOD? Who do you think is responsible for this? Secondly, how will you avoid such miscommunications and abuses in the future? Have you already worked on a structural solution to the shortage of staff and the lack of equipment, which jeopardises a number of security procedures, or how will you do so? Do you also have a short-term plan to optimise security procedures and, above all, communication? Thirdly, we have just raised this question during the budget negotiations - what is the whole cost of the incident, for which Defence will probably be given responsibility, at least according to Flemish Minister for the Environment Zuhal Demir? How will these expenditure be budgeted for in the Defence budget? At which posts will you save if necessary? Where and how do you justify any savings? Finally, have you also registered an investment in the military fire department, which left much to be desired here? If so, how will you finance it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u7	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, according to the VRT, which relies on anonymous military sources, the fire in the military domain of the Groot Schietveld, which was declared following a firing exercise and which destroyed some 570 hectares of nature, would be due to the use of phosphorus munitions, when they were banned at that time due to a drought classified yellow code. It would appear that such munitions were among the cartridges of the Minimi machine guns. In this regard, the VRT refers to a possible delivery of erroneous ammunition. The whole while – I quote a soldier who spoke to the VRT – "the soldiers involved in the shooting exercise thought that the Green Code was applicable that day." Thus, there would have been an additional internal communication problem at the time of the exercise, while the nature was very dry after a long period without rain. In a premature, somewhat peremptory and perhaps even imprudent manner, the Flemish Minister of the Environment, Zuhal Demir, has no hesitation in calling on the Defence to bear the costs of the fire that took place in the Brecht military domain. Minister, what is your reaction to the notice of the Flemish Minister for the Environment? What is the status of the internal Defence investigation into this fire? Is it true that phosphorus munitions have been used? If so, how can this be explained and how can this not happen again? How can we also explain the poor communication regarding the green and yellow weather codes if it is proven? How can we ensure, too, that this does not happen again? In both cases, were sanctions imposed? Could you give us more information about the extent of the damage to property and the nature caused by the fire? How does Defence work in practice, in particular in connection with the Flemish Nature and Forest Agency, to restore the natural area ravaged by flames?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u8	Mr De Vuyst and Mr Boukili have both tabled exactly the same question, probably in the hope that one of them might be present. I would like to ask you to do a decent job of asking questions and to ensure that at least one of the two applicants is present if you want to work in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u9	Madam Minister, unfortunately the fire on the military domain remains topical, with a number of new developments. More than 570 hectares of nature was destroyed and it will take at least ten years before the heavily damaged nature is restored. That is, of course, a terrible balance, and it will also cost a great deal of money. Flemish minister Zuhal Demir has done a great deal to you in that regard. She's decided to fail Defense for all the damage and the cost of repair. Furthermore, she does not blame you for having responded when she wanted to contact you after the fire, when she apparently had a number of questions. You can read all that in smells and colors in the press. Have you received all these accusations and questions yourself? I also have a number of general questions. Perhaps you can tell us how work will be done to restore the nature reserve. That is, after all, the most important point. What role will the army play in this? What means are being used for this? In what time will everything happen? Can you also state the extent of the damage? Is the message that the fire was caused by flammable tracers that weren't supposed to be used? Then how did those forbidden bullets end up in the ammo? After all, there are protocols that state what can and cannot be done, depending on colour codes relating to the drought. Maybe those protocols weren't followed? What exactly went wrong there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u10	Mr President, several official investigations have been launched. The judicial investigation is still ongoing. I cannot provide any additional information on the duration of this. The investigation conducted within the Defense Department by the Land Accident Investigation Team is still ongoing. No timing can be given at the moment. This timing is partly dependent on the results of the fire engineering research conducted by a special research team of Dutch and Belgian specialists. The firefighters are not specialists of the Defense Department. So the DOD has no influence on the timing of this fire-fighting investigation. Another internal investigation was carried out by Inspector for Labour and Environment (ILE), the Labour and Environmental Inspectorate of Defence. This body shall monitor the application of existing legislation and possible additional military rules on environmental protection and well-being at work. ILE's research is not intended to identify the causes of the fire or its responsibilities. This is the responsibility of firefighters and judicial investigators. This first report does indeed suggest that, despite the yellow code and the associated restrictions and prohibitions, trace bullets were used. The questions about how this could be done and, above all, how it could be done, despite the different mechanisms to be used, are part of the ongoing investigations. I will not draw any premature conclusions or comment on the exact course of events, the question of guilt or the responsibilities in this regard. However, I would like to say that an organisation responsible for the safety of our country and its people must be able to carry out its own tasks and procedures at all times without having to compromise. These compromises must now be removed as soon as possible. The investigations will determine whether the applicable procedures and rules have been complied with. If these have been met, we will evaluate their effectiveness. Nevertheless, pending the conclusions of the official investigations, I have asked the Chief of Defense to take every precaution to prevent such a fire from happening again. On the basis of the Investigation Report of the Labour and Environment Inspectorate (ILE) on this incident, I have recommended a series of concrete actions to the Head of Defence: - clear communication regarding fire restrictions; - the correct use and marking used on the ranges of fire according to weather conditions; - requirements for the notification of events within the military structure; - risk analysis of the range of fire; - consultations with the Agentschap voor Natuur in Bos for the current situation but also with the Walloon organization Department of Nature and Forests; - the presence of sets of first-aid equipment; - clarify the presence of the fire truck; - ensuring the training of staff. These recommendations are valid for all ranges. Since the fire, all planned shooting exercises in Brecht have been suspended in the open air. Both training tests and training fires were no longer carried out. No decision has yet been taken on the rebooting of shooting drills outside the covered shooting positions. This is considered from 1 September, but depends on the results of the studies. To mitigate the impact of the fire on the training sessions as much as possible, trainings were reduced so that they could be organized on the indoor stands. When this was not an option, the scheduled exercises were moved to other locations such as Leopoldsburg and Elsenborn. However, this was not possible for all planned exercises due to the limitations to which the camps are subject. In addition to the Defense Department, customs and police use the stands. Because they mostly train on the indoor stands, they have experienced a less large impact. I have been informed in the press that the Flemish Minister for Justice and Enforcement, Environment, Energy and Tourism is officially failing Defence and that the municipalities of Brecht and Wuustwezel are taking part in the investigation. I have not yet received a formal notification of both initiatives. Minister Demir, on the other hand, has written to me in order to ask me what action I intend to take. My answer will come soon. I'm waiting for the results of this investigation to answer him. However, contacts have taken place between the Defence and the services of the Flemish Region to discuss possible corrective measures regarding the use of the range. As far as I know, there is no official position of the municipalities concerned on the activities of Defence in its territory. The final theorem of the mayors of Wuustwezel and Brecht is that Defense itself decides what activities are being carried out. Better communication on what is being carried out in the military field is now being used to speed up the framing and response to any questions raised by concerned citizens. If the Belgian State is finally convicted, then only a simple and criminal declaration and compensation is possible. Defence is not additionally insured for the damage resulting from the fire or other similar incidents. The Belgian State acts in this regard as its own insurer. In addition to the recommendations cited, it is still too early to discuss concrete ideas, let alone estimate the costs involved, as the investigations are still ongoing. The additional recommendations will determine the investments needed to increase safety in the target areas. A number of initiatives are indeed being considered to restore nature. However, the totality of the initiatives will depend on the outcome of the fire engineering research. Close cooperation with the ANB in the military field will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u11	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed answer. Your answer was clear, at least on the facts that you could comment on. I hear that the most important investigations, in particular the judicial investigation and the fire investigation, are still ongoing. Some are already drawing a lot of conclusions, but of course this is difficult with studies that have not yet been completed and results that are not yet known. We have to be careful with that. Those investigations will show the role of Defence and the role played by the ANB in the run-up to this calamity. We need to learn lessons from the procedures in the Defense Department, as well as from communication and cooperation with the surrounding municipalities. We must also understand that some municipalities are bourgeois parties. If I were mayor of a neighboring municipality, I'd do the same. As far as training is concerned, I suggest September 1st. We must be careful not to hypothesize our training capacity. I find the attitude of Flemish Minister Demir very regrettable. The tests are still ongoing. There have been contacts with her services and her cabinet, so they should be very well aware of the fact that the investigations are still ongoing. However, that fact has been ignored and has been chosen to be a badass in the media, and that is regrettable. DOD deserves better. So I hope I'm not the only one who doesn't approve of those reactions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u12	Mr Pillen, with your last words, you are looking at me. However, I wish to maintain my neutrality in this debate, even if it is a party member of mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u13	That was not the intention, Mr President, and I hope, of course, that all the Presidents will remain neutral. I'm sorry you're attracted to me. I can imagine you're in an uncomfortable position. I assume you yourself were not so happy with the statements made by Minister Demir.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u14	Mr. Pills, a little decency, please. You're really challenging me. You dare to say that I am unhappy with the statements made by Minister Demir, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u15	I feel that way. I know your love for Defense, but I may have made a mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u16	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u17	Madam Secretary, painful mistakes have been made, both during the fire, but things have not been done. We must now concentrate on the future. We are not in favour of imposing draconian measures or punishing them for what happened. This responsibility lies largely with politics. We must, above all, give the defence sector the means to avoid this kind of thing. Our party does not participate in the appeal of certain groups to remove Defense from precious natural areas. It is precisely because of the long-standing presence of the Defense Department that such valuable nature reserves could be preserved. We hope that in future we will be able to continue this task. For us, Defense and Nature Management go hand in hand in the Kempen. With respect for the fauna and flora, but equally for the military destination of these areas. That is why we were disappointed, Madam Minister, that you did not feel obliged to reply to the letter from Flemish Minister Demir in which she expressed her appreciation for the efforts made by Defence to protect nature and forest value in its large military domains. You just said you didn't receive that letter officially. There are very good contacts between ANB and Defense in the field. Both partners will need each other in the future to repair the natural damage. We hope that you will take advantage of this opportunity to get everything started as well as possible. I regret what Mr Pillen has just said about Flemish Minister Zuhal Demir. What she's doing isn't polarizing, what she's doing is just trying to repair the big damage. We hope this can happen hand in hand with the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u18	Madam Secretary, these investigations are very interesting to learn lessons from. Mistakes will always be made, but we absolutely must prevent such incidents from occurring in the future. After all, there are a lot of military domains where shooting exercises are held. My conclusion remains that it is important to have good fire-fighting plans that deserve an update. Let me be very clear. We are absolutely not opposed to target practice and believe that these areas should and can be used for this purpose, but with clear procedures and agreements. If it is dry and there are certain things that need to be done, then it must be communicated. You refer to actors such as the ANB, which has a lot of experience. In Kleine Brogel, for example, in the field of nature management, the choice was made to provide more safety with fire engines. You can certainly include that in the story. Finally, when I asked whether Mrs Demir had already sent a letter or a press release, it was meant as a boltade, but it seems to be correct. That's very sad. Ms Safai stated that Minister Demir did not want to polarize. However, if the media are engaged at a time when the investigations are still ongoing and the Minister of Defence is not yet able to respond officially, while Defence and the ANB are already sitting together and looking at how this can be avoided in the future, that seems to me to be a very strange way of working. I regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u19	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. It is logical that we should wait for the full investigation before we have any clarity about the responsibility and the cause. It is a good thing that ILE is also carrying out an investigation and that lessons are already being drawn and that the legal investigation is not waiting to be carried out in order to refine the arrangements for communication around the fire codes. It is crucial that communication on this issue is carefully considered. When we hear that a number of soldiers assumed that code was still in force at that time, that is remarkable and indicates a lack of good information flow, resulting in the use of false ammunition. I also agree with Mr Verduyckt's comments on preventive measures, fire escapes, good signposting for firefighters and so on. Even after the fires on the Kalmthoutse Heide, drastic measures were taken. They can ensure that fires can be digged in quickly and efficiently. That is something that had not yet come to my attention on the Great Shooting Field, I understood. You also refer to the contacts with the local authorities. The crucial thing is that the support for military exercises has been pinched. I think we need to work on that from the Department of Defense. There has also been discussion in the past about the recreational use of soft roads for pedestrians and cyclists. This kind of element could now help to re-enhancing the support base in the conversation with local authorities. We look forward to the further steps that will be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u20	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. Of course, we have respect for the ongoing investigation and for all the interim measures that have been taken in the meantime concerning the suspension of target practice. Of course, we cannot ignore the fact that, unfortunately, this is yet another poignant case of internal miscommunication and a symptom of the structural under-financing of Defence, with serious consequences in this case for a nature reserve, with the violation of the military's reputation among the general public. That's at least as bad. Because of the years of savings, Defence faces a shortage of staff and time. As a result, many military forces have to combine all kinds of tasks with too little material, causing a number of security procedures to suffer. That is why I would like to call for a strictly short-term plan. You've had a meeting with the Chief of the Army. I would like to call on you to optimise security procedures and internal communication in the short term. You didn't say anything about investing in the military fire department. We shall continue to follow that up. It is particularly looking forward to the consequences of the notice of default by the Flemish government, mainly in terms of a possible budgetary impact. After all, the cost is not small. It is difficult to anticipate this, but I note that Defence does not have insurance for such risks and that the Belgian government acts as its own insurer. We shall see where that brings us all. As far as final responsibility is concerned, we must also have the courage to nuance it. I have already mentioned this in the previous debate. I have noticed that a number of colleagues have joined me in this. Nor does the ANB escape that responsibility. The fire has been able to develop so quickly on the ground due, among other things, to the lack of sufficient firepower. This must also be reviewed as a matter of urgency. There is therefore a joint responsibility in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u21	Mr President, I thank the Minister for her answers and for the actions she has already taken. Three investigations are conducted under his auspices. There is a judicial investigation, which is not directly within its competence, an investigation with Belgian and Dutch specialists and a specific investigation into nature protection legislation and the responsibilities to be identified. She announced a series of quick and concrete actions with the Chief of Staff to prevent this type of incident. Shooting in sensitive natural areas is now suspended. Beyond the fire in this biodiversity-rich area, it is regrettable that a certain part of the political class is making the Community's instrumentisation of any incident that may occur in that country. Even a fire in a natural area is a community incident today! Where are we going? I do not understand the reaction of the Flemish Minister for Nature, Mrs Demir, since we are now informed that the two departments – Defence and the Forest and Nature Agency in Flanders – are working hard to ensure that what has been set on fire is repaired and that such situations do not happen again. The administrations are talking to each other. The Minister is waiting for the end of the investigation to be able to respond in concrete terms. Instead of Minister Demir, I would have been much more cautious because it is possible that the investigation reveals that one of the responsibilities lies in the lack of investment in staff, training and support tasks, but also in equipment that, had it been mostly present, could have avoided this unfortunate fire. So I really call on the entire political class to be cautious about such matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u22	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt is not against shooting exercises. I agree. Sometimes there are shooting exercises in this committee. We have also noticed that today: sometimes there are shots, sometimes not. It's all part of it. Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for your answer, not only for the clarifications but also for their serenity. That is what marks the difference with your colleague at the Flemish level. Indeed, it is rather far-reaching that a minister in the press complains that he has not yet received an answer to a letter while the investigation is still under way. A normal understanding and serenity are in the interests of a solution and restoration of nature, which is our priority in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u23	Mr President, Madam Minister, one of my two questions concerns the general point and an update of the Conings case. But since all my colleagues will certainly be asking more or less the same questions, I will instead focus on the second question which, I think, deserves further consideration. The Conings case concerns the procedures for the removal of Army-owned equipment from military bases. As a result of this case, a few testimonies came to me describing a certain ease in subtlying equipment, including weapons, and keeping it at home. Some of these testimonies also concern people who are no longer working for the Defence, particularly because they are retired, and who still have the subtly developed material at home at the time. Military personnel leaving for operations abroad early in the morning would also have been regularly handed over their weapons the previous day by ease and had to bring them home for the night. I am also told that information, when someone is banned from weapons, for example on suspicion of theft, does not reach the first concerned, i.e. the armorers, by official means within a reasonable period of time so that they can take the necessary actions. People are therefore officially prohibited from arms, but in fact still have access to them. Finally, in principle, according to the regulation, armors cannot have access to ammunition. Both services must be separated. However, at the Base and School Training Centre (CIBE), for example, the NCO responsible for ammunition was, at least until December 2020, also an arming manager. How is this possible? If all these testimonies are proven, it is obviously very disturbing. Minister, are you aware of such practices? Is it authorized for members to keep this type of equipment at home? What are the procedures for the removal of weapons and ammunition-type equipment from Defence warehouses? Are there any records? Is there a regular inventory of equipment? How often? Is equipment regularly reported missing? What is the procedure in such a case? What penalties do staff members face for engaging in such practices? How do you intend not to strengthen the rules since, apparently, they exist but to enforce them strictly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u24	Madam Minister, I have a number of questions about this incident and, in particular, about structural measures. You discussed the structural measures with the military trade unions to avoid such situations in the future. They will stick to the pen for the implementation of a three-stage plan and are part of several working groups which need to review the discipline regulations, which need to consider how screening can be carried out over a full career and which need to re-establish military values and standards. Madam Minister, can you explain the specific mission and composition of these working groups? Who represents the Defense Department and who represents the trade unions? Will politics, civil society organisations or the strategic committee be involved? Does this practice not give too much power to the trade unions? What about the voice of the large numbers of unlisted military in this debate? What is the target date for the reports and planned reforms? Will this lead to a redrafting of the legal framework? When will you present this to Parliament? In the aftermath, much attention was paid to the decompression and psychological succession of soldiers such as Jürgen Conings, with a long and difficult track record and with many foreign operations behind the wheel. In Parliament, you said you wanted to look further at the expansion of the decompression system. In addition to punishing the military and reforming military values, have you also talked to the trade unions about a concrete action plan to improve the mental well-being of the military? What is the current status of Jürgen Conings? Did he get fired, suspended or continue to pay? The trade unions are satisfied with their new role, but they also point out that they feel uncomfortable about the many telephones they already received from soldiers who lost their access in the aftermath of this and who do not belong to the eleven extremist soldiers known to the services. Rather, they are called in by association. That is why I repeat my question about the exact number of military forces that have been imposed. What measures exactly are we talking about? Can you also give an update on your consultation with the trade unions? I would also like to know more about the instructions you have given.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u25	The following three authors, Mr De Vuyst, Mr Boukili and Mr Ducarme, are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u26	Madam Minister, when I submitted the question, the situation was still unclear and I hoped that the man would be witty by now. Unfortunately, that hasn't happened yet. What's the status? In what way is the DOD currently involved in the search? What is the current security situation? The fact that the man is on the run, of course, also affects the security situation of people who have been threatened, among others. Is the measure against the other military a temporary measure? What's the point of that? Like Mr Francken, I ask what is the status of Mr Conings, including in the area of suspension.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u27	Minister, extreme right-wing terrorist Jürgen Conings has been actively wanted since 17 May, when, before disappearing, he left behind a worrying farewell letter. In the latter he threatened very seriously the state, its institutions and, in particular, the virologist Marc Van Ranst. He also said he took with him heavy weapons stolen from the Defense. Unfortunately, the threat is still present and investigations are under way by the General Inspectorate and the R Committee, in addition to the investigations carried out by the judicial police and the prosecutor's office. Could you give us an overview of the current situation with regard to the terrorist's search? To what extent is Defence still closely involved in police-related research at this stage? How is cooperation with foreign security and defence forces going? What is the status of Conings in the army to date? Have any new internal sanctions been taken in this case? Can we learn more about the preventive measures taken against the other 11 extremist-motivated military personnel? Are measures to strengthen surveillance and security with regard to access, use and exit of weapons and ammunition from Defence warehouses already effective today? If so, can we find out more? Finally, Madam Minister, on 27 May you met with the trade unions to discuss, inter alia, what structural measures could be taken as a result of this case. What exactly emerges from this meeting? Could you tell us more about the reforms you are planning to undertake, particularly in collaboration and consultation with the trade unions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u28	Madam Minister, I would like to focus on any new elements that have become known since last week's committee meeting. Can you give us an update on the search for the fugitive military? Are there any new elements regarding the ongoing investigations? Have any steps been taken towards military unit and commanders of the fugitive military and, if so, which ones? According to your explanation of last week, his unit was at one point aware of the signal from the ADIV. In response to a question from Mr Defossé, you replied that Defence has an internal complaint system and that a few dozen complaints have been lodged in recent years. There's a certain degree of follow-up, but how serious and clingy is it? Since last week, do you have any new elements on the initiatives to improve the communication and flow of information from the OCAD to the Defense Department? We have, of course, read that important internal measures have already been taken with regard to 11 military forces. Do you expect any more direct measures with regard to other military forces?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u29	Madam Secretary, I briefed you on this matter in plenary last week. At that time, you gave exactly the same answer as the previous day in the topical debate in committee. You did not answer a number of questions at the time, and that is why I am asking them again today. What is the state of play with regard to the research currently being conducted by Defence, in general, but also with regard to the responsibility within Defence and/or the ADIV? How many soldiers are currently on the list for follow-up by the ADIV? Has the number changed compared to last week? What is the relation between French speakers and Dutch speakers of the military followed? Which concrete indicators are used to determine whether or not a military is on the ADIV list? How many soldiers have been sanctioned in recent days or weeks or have their security clearance been revoked? Are the sanctions or measures taken temporary? If so, how long are the measures in force? You announced your intention to act more strictly and preventively, emphasising screening, in particular of recruits. How will this screening be done? What criteria will you use? How is this communicated to the new recruits? Isn't this contrary to privacy law? How is that legally justified? It is reported that at present only two persons are responsible for following up the ADIV list. Can you confirm that? Do you think that's enough? What specific measures will you take to optimise the guidance and follow-up of military personnel with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSS) or similar symptoms?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u30	Madam Minister, you continue to provide a number of information on the situation in this matter. The committee set the agenda for work on the report to be produced in mid-May this morning. This afternoon, we have Committees P and R. This matter is continuing and it is a good thing. It will be based on the investigation work of the General Inspectorate and that of the R Committee, and that is important. All this will feed into reforms to produce and recommendations. Such investigations must be organized without any doubt or questioning of any person. I will be the last to produce these doubts. I think it's still interesting to hear you on one aspect. The Inspectorate General conducts an investigation and will produce a report. The head of the Inspectorate General is someone whose competence and integrity are fairly widely recognized, beyond traditional divisions. Nevertheless, the head of the Inspectorate-General today is Mr. Peter De Vogelaere. Peter De Vogelaere was chief of staff of your predecessors. I'm not a suspect to talk about it, considering I'm MR. But I don't want anyone to cast any shadow at some point on the investigation that's going to be produced. That's why I'm asking you the question. The question is as follows. Mr. Peter De Vogelaere will conduct an investigation into a period when he was with the ministers responsible. I just wanted to hear from you about the guarantee that you can give us that this is not a problem in terms of impartiality and objectivity. This will be done now and will probably avoid artificial questions and doubts about the investigation once it arrives on Parliament's shelves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I had the opportunity to communicate to you during the Defence Committee meeting on Wednesday, 26 May, and in plenary session on 27 May, a number of investigations are ongoing into the case of Jürgen Conings. By the end of June, I should be in possession of all the reports. Perhaps that explains why, between Wednesday and Thursday, I repeated the same thing. In this context, you will easily understand that I have to wait for the results of the investigations of the General Inspectorate of Defence and the R Committee to answer you more specifically about the problems that will be identified and the corrective measures that I intend to take. Therefore, I do not have much new information to share with you, but I will try – as always – to answer your questions as precisely as possible on the basis of the information currently available to me. With regard to the theft of weapons, I would like to inform you of certain aspects of the procedure that should have been followed. Thus, each distribution of weapons must be systematically recorded. Weapons are digitally controlled every week, or even daily, during manoeuvring or operation. The distribution of ammunition is always linked to a specific, known and approved activity. Ammunition may only be removed for this purpose and only by the personnel mandated to do so. At the end of the activity, all remaining ammunition must be returned. It is prohibited for members to hold, wear or use, outside the service, weapons that are part of the prescribed equipment used in Defence. Every missing weapon must be classified as a criminal security incident. Infringement of the rules applicable to the carrying of arms or their detention outside the service is an offence punishable by criminal prosecution. For serving members, such action may also result in disciplinary punishment. With regard to the preventive measures taken, I confirm to you what I announced last Thursday in response to the topical questions raised in plenary. So far, the Defence has taken protective and temporary measures which, I would like to point out, are not disciplinary measures against twelve people, including Mr. Conings. These measures include a ban on access to weapons or classified information. Additional measures may be taken against the 12 military or others, depending on the evolution of the analysis studies requested from the ADIV. Jürgen Conings has been illegally absent since May 19. His bet hasn't been paid since. The procedure for a definitive waiver of office was initiated. As regards the questions on the ADIV, the feud between civilians and military was one of the reasons why a new structure was implemented in 2020. The former Directorate CI no longer exists. On 18 September, Lieutenant General Van De Voorde was succeeded by Maj. Gen. Boucké. There is a structural exchange of information between the ADIV and the VSSE, in particular on the memorandum requiring thematic or geographical meetings between experts from the two services and on the National Strategic Intelligence Plan which provides for enhanced cooperation in a number of areas. Another structural information channel involving the ADIV is the Radicalism Action Plan, coordinated by the OCAD. This Plan R provides for information exchange at local level in the local task forces and at federal level in the national task force and in thematic working groups. The joint platform VSSE-ADIV on counter-terrorism, based in the offices of the VSSE, includes seconded ADIV personnel. I come to the registration of Jürgen Conings on the OCAD list. According to General Boucké, he does not have access to OCAD's database from his position. The information that Conings is on the OCAD list did not get to him through the internal information flow. A summary of the operations will of course be submitted to General Boucké at regular intervals. An overview of the operations is presented to me every month. Every week, in addition to daily contacts, a working meeting takes place between the head of the ADIV and my cabinet. During these meetings, this information was never passed on. I'm confirming the chronic staff shortage at the ADIV. This finding has also been confirmed by the Committee for a number of years. In a very recent communication from the Chief of Defense, an appeal is made to strengthen the ADIV with 81 soldiers in the short term. It is understood that these are internal shifts and that this measure is not a structural solution to the acute personnel shortage within Defence. I will certainly have the opportunity to come back to this issue in the coming weeks, on the basis of the reports that have been communicated to me in the meantime. The appointment of the Inspector General to conduct the internal investigation in the Defence was made in accordance with the Royal Decree of 2 December 2018 determining the general structure of the Ministry of Defence and laying down the powers of certain authorities. It provides for the Inspector General to review, at the request of the Minister or the CHOD, any situation, which may lead to recommendations in the area of the operation of services and the cross-cutting operation of the services of the armed forces, or to consider measures to be taken or procedures to be initiated with respect to persons. The Inspector General was therefore appointed for this investigation as a regulatoryly competent body. The fact that Major General Devogelaere is at his head does not detract from the prerogatives of the Inspector General and from the powers of inspection which must enable him to gather the information necessary for the investigation. Finally, Defense remains involved in the search in support of the police and at the request of the federal prosecutor with a platoon quick reaction force, a UAS team on site and elements on standby, such as an intervention battalion of about 300 soldiers, search dogs, another UAS team and an NH90 helicopter. The OCAD is the body that assesses the level of risk. As far as Conings is concerned, the level is assessed at 4, very serious. I did indeed meet with the union representatives on May 27, with the aim of involving them in working groups with the staff regarding measures that could be taken to prevent this type of incident. These are particularly working groups on disciplinary regulation, screening and improvement of psychosocial follow-up. That is what I can tell you today at the current stage of investigations. I have no doubt that we will have the opportunity, in the coming weeks, to come back to this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u32	Madam Minister, on the Conings run, I thank you for sharing these new elements, although we did not learn much more than last week. That is normal and we did not expect any more. We know you'll have the first report in two weeks and the second in thirty days. It was necessary, however, to hear you make the point, even if he is only an intermediary. The more the hours pass and the more we worry about what this man is able to do, he and his potential accomplices of the extreme right circles in which he navigates. We can only hope he won't be a victim. I would like to highlight the offer you made to bail out the SGRS. It was important and useful. It is only a slippage and it does not strengthen overall. In view of the urgency, I thank you for that. With regard to the lack of respect for procedures relating to access to arms, as I said, I believe that the rules do exist. You have reminded him and all those who fed me on this question have told me: these rules exist. Only a problem remains with their application. It is obviously subject to a great deal of relaxation. We will have to tighten the bolts if we want to avoid other events such as the one that has been occupying our law enforcement forces for the last two weeks or smaller events that are not necessarily linked to terrorism, but to "classical" acts of theft and violence. The internal report may be able to identify some leads, but there should in any case be a strengthening of the application of the procedures because the Conings case does not seem to be used as an electroshock. I am told that the violations of the regulations are apparently still daily, even since Conings's cavalry. We therefore count on you to put this into order, and we will support you in doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u33	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I keep finding some things unclear. Both from the unions and from the Defense Department, there are signs of severe action being taken against people who have liked certain groups or done certain things. You said last week that the military intelligence service screened the soldiers who were members of the Facebook group "I support Jürgen Conings," who had nearly 50,000 followers and was eventually taken offline by Facebook itself. You said at the time that this was a violation of the social media behaviour of the military. Maybe that's possible. I can imagine that. I asked about exactly how many people it was. How many of those 50,000 followers were military? When screened, I assume people know who did and who wasn't a member of it. What happened to that information? As I said, the trade unions are picking up signals from people who are uncomfortable or endorsed, but now you report that they are only 11 people plus Jürgen Conings himself and that they are precautionary and preventive measures, not disciplinary measures on weapons and security clearances and operations. So it would only be limited to that group? I find that strange because I'm getting other information myself. Research has been conducted into the military who liked the Facebook group "I support Jürgen Conings." How many people are involved and what sanctions will they be imposed? It's very difficult to get a hand on that. However, it is important to provide transparency about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u34	Madam Secretary, I understand that you cannot provide all the information. It is still relatively limited, because the situation is not yet under control. I also hope that you understand that, as long as the man is not witty, and as long as no one knows what his plans are, this is an unpleasant situation and that we continue to ask ourselves questions about it. I'm glad to hear you've started his resignation. I also think that this is only logical, and that there is no longer any payment of wages. Finally, as far as ADIV is concerned, it is sad to hear that internal feuds are still causing problems there today. I also hear you say the Cl service no longer exists there. I'm going to be told that doesn't make any sense to a security service. I certainly want to come back to that later. I think it might be useful, after hearing this service at the hearing, to better assess whether it is logical that Major General Boucké was not aware of this information. I'm afraid to make a statement on that today. Of course I find it strange. On the one hand, it seems to me that there is quite a lot of information available to provide guidance. On the other hand, there have been some alarm signals recently from experts who warned against infiltration into security services by the far right. So it is not entirely illogical for a responsible person to know what is going on, to be able to lead. So I certainly want to come back to that later. As far as I am concerned, many questions remain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u35	Mr. Chair, I thank the minister for her answers. They are cautious, but this is normal since there are ongoing investigations. Despite the investigations, the Minister has taken a series of measures in consultation with the Chod to ensure that the situation is controlled in her department in the short term. The Minister will also need to take action in the medium and long term. I am sometimes surprised at the issues I am hearing here, particularly with regard to those who are subject to increased oversight by the SMS. We even come to ask for the linguistic origin of these people, as if there was a will in the head of the SGRS to classify the dangerousness of people according to the language they speak. Where are we gonna stop? I know it's an obsession with Vlaams Belang. When one hears its president, Tom Van Grieken, a good citizen is a Christian, Flemish and white citizen! This is National Defence, this is not Vlaams Belang! That's all the difference! However, we learn a whole series of new facts outside the investigation. As recently as yesterday, it was reported that Jürgen Conings had been a member of the Vlaams Belang in 2020, when he showed his signs of extreme radicalisation. Before disappearing in nature, he did not renew his contribution. I've heard a lot about political responsibility. Political responsibility today is primarily in the head of Vlaams Belang and in the head of its president. If a resignation is to take place today, it is that of Tom Van Grieken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u36	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I am certainly not going to replicate the intention process conducted here by a colleague of the PS. I would not like to know what ex-members or current members of the PS all have on their hands, Mr Lacroix. That would lead us far too far and our time is limited. Madam Secretary, there are still a lot of unanswered questions. However, I have asked very specific questions. The arms management procedures and the like still raise questions. We hope that we will receive answers during the exchange of views on 16 June. I did not receive an answer to the question about the indicators used by ADIV. When does someone effectively get on the list for follow-up? You did not answer that question in concrete terms. You did reply to the questions on the flow of information. You have mentioned, among other things, that at different times there are structural exchanges of information between ADIV, the State Security and OCAD, the latter as regards the radicalisation plan. I can only say that a lot has gone wrong during this structural exchange, when we see that General Boucké has no idea who is on that OCAD list and has not been informed about it either. You have confirmed the lack of staff at ADIV, of course. There is only an internal shift of personnel at the moment. Of course, that is not a long-term solution. I hope that this will become structural in the future. Nor did you answer the question about the screening of the recruits. How will you do that? How is that legally justified? What about there regarding any privacy legislation? You didn't answer the last question either. How will you optimize the follow-up and guidance of soldiers who are suffering from PTSS or similar symptoms? Those are all questions that remain open. I regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u37	Mr President, I would like to react as I have been questioned, but I will be brief. I can't let the amalgam pass. Here, Mrs Ponthier is a member of this committee who is doing her job. I think she's a moderate element of Vlaams Belang. That being said, there she is indecent! It is indecent when it compares an extreme right-wing terrorist who belonged to the Vlaams Belang in 2020 with certain harms that could have been committed by some members of the Socialist Party. May she find me only one man, or one woman, in the Socialist Party, who once stole weapons, threatened virologists, threatened the state, threatened the institutions! Then we'll talk about it again at that time!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u38	Madam Minister, I would like to interview you on the decision of the Council of Ministers of 30 April 2021 to appoint Mr Michel Jaupart as Director of the WHI. That appointment is not without the necessary controversy, especially in view of the previous problematic course of the WHI under the leadership of Mr Jaupart. One message is clear to everyone in the conception of the new governance period: the WHI must modernise and professionalise if it wants to remain relevant and protect our military heritage. What conditions were imposed on Mr Jaupart in the renewal of his contract? What differences are new contracts and assignments of the previous ones? What specific benchmarks did you give your director for the next four years? What objectives or achievements do you expect him to achieve? Were they included in the contract? Does Mr Jaupart have to come up with a new policy plan for the WHI for the coming years, or does his appointment come without concrete commitments and is it merely a continuation? Will you commit to a closer follow-up of the WHI, given the persistent problems of the institution? How will the follow-up take shape? Mr Jaupart made some enemies in the organisation during his first board period. Do you see it as your task to act as a conciliator, or do you leave it to the director himself?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u39	Madam Secretary, the introduction has been outlined. The decision to appoint Mr Jaupart as director of the War Heritage Institute is at least controversial, given his course within and outside the organisation. In the past, he has also been compromised by anti-Flemish comments on social media, while you often say that the WHI is an overarching federal institution, which must also represent the Flemish people, like all the citizens of this country and all the people involved in preserving our military cultural heritage. I have some questions about that decision. With regard to Mr Jaupart's new term of office, have new conditions been included in his contract? If so, which one? In what way do they differ from the previous contract of Director-General ad interim? What general policy objectives were imposed on the Director-General and what timetable? Were internal and external control mechanisms included in the new contract to monitor the achievement of the objectives? Should it be noted that Mr Jaupart is failing in terms of the management of the WHI and the cooperation with the Management Board, is there any possibility of suspending cooperation? If so, under what conditions and within what time limit? Has a new policy plan for the reform of the WHI been drawn up or is its appointment a continuation of the previous policy that has failed? What about the relationship between the Director-General and the Management Board? That relationship was seriously disturbed in the past, as we could read in the reports. How do you see that in the future? My final question has just been asked in the course of the work, but I repeat it for the record. Can we obtain the most recent reports and letters relating to financial management from the WHI? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u40	The appointment of the Director-General of the War Heritage Institute was carried out in accordance with the Royal Decree of 16 November 2006 concerning the designation and exercise of management and staff functions in certain public utility institutions. It describes what a candidate must meet in order to be selected and appointed. Mr Jaupart came out of the selection as one of the two laureates, which was independently performed by Selor, and may be considered to have the necessary qualities to guide the War Heritage Institute in a sound manner. The objectives derive from my political orientation paper and from the assignments entrusted to the War Heritage Institute under legal and regulatory provisions. They shall be drawn up in a strategic plan of the institution and in a management contract. The objectives are linked to measurable indicators, which will be followed at regular intervals, both by myself and by the government directors and the board of directors. The achievement of the objectives set out in those documents, and the way in which they were achieved or not, will be part of the Director-General's annual evaluation. The first ad interim administrative period of Mr Jaupart was mainly in the light of the merger of four separate entities and the associated challenge of having staff working together with different work backgrounds.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u41	Madam Secretary, you state that such an appointment is mandatory for government commissioners. However, confidential reports, one of which has been leaked, in particular those of a government commissioner for 2019, refer to serious abuses. I quote: 'year-long neglect, highly neglected infrastructure, management that is excessively focused on external representation, lack of management capacities, lack of uniformity and coherence with regard to staff, countless complaints about unequal treatment and a consciously organised lack of internal communication'. This is the conclusion of a government commissioner before you re-appoint the person concerned. Madam Secretary, you will receive such a report. You will receive a destructive report from the Court of Auditors. You will receive a destructive report and evaluation on human resource policy. Nevertheless, the government decides to give the man until his retirement the top position at the WHI. I don't understand. That's not a matter of good governance. I am not talking about the fact that the person concerned also likes to throw Flemings and Flemish nationalists under the train. Just after the election results in 2019, he found that funny on his social media. There's even been a complaint to Unia. You must imagine that a federal top official would explain something like that about a Moroccan, a Congolese or about someone from your party, the PS. Such an official would never be appointed. That would be out of the question and probably justified. There is also a complaint about the person concerned to Unia for racism and discrimination, but he is still being appointed. After all, it was just the Flemish nationalists he was targeting. That's very strange. I can't agree with that appointment. I believe there were other options. The procedure has a history; I would have just restarted it instead of making an appointment. I regret the way things are going. We will follow the case now. I will also request the reports and reports of the government commissioners. After all, if they are so devastating again, you will, I presume, have to draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u42	Madam Secretary, thank you for your short answer. The management of military cultural heritage is very important. I believe that we all agree on this in our committee. A director-general who immediately describes all Flemings as so-called brown shirts on the social media is, in my opinion, not a person allowed to perform such an exemplary role. I therefore deeply regret that you have ignored all the warnings and signals you have received in this regard and have appointed him Director-General of a very important institution that wishes to honour the memory of our military heritage. Normally, the Director-General is someone who seeks to make it a matter of honor to honor the past of the Second World War. I believe that there is a very thick hair in the butter in that area. We will certainly follow the content of the strategic plan and management contract, which you quote here, in detail. We hope that we will be able to do so through the reports of the Management Board. In the past, certain elements emerged. We have guessed what the measurable indicators will mean with which you want to monitor him or the operation of the WHI. Based on what? What are the gauges over there? We will certainly follow that up. The maladministration in the field of human resources policy and finance, we have been able to look at the letters from the Secretary of State for the Budget, which, of course, does not promise much good for the future. I think that the whole dossier smells of arbitrariness, especially with regard to the appointment of the person in question. It defies all the imagination that you stand behind it. It is clear that there are other interests here. So we will certainly come back to this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u43	The attack of 4 May 2021 is a denial of service attack. In this particular case, it was intended to make Internet access or communication impossible. Belnet seems to have been the main target. So it was their clients who were assigned. The consequences identified so far are the temporary interruption of many services that required internet access to operate. The impact on Defence has been felt primarily by telework personnel who have temporarily had difficulty accessing Defence services and networks. There was no impact at the operational level. There is no indication at this stage that the attack had any intentions other than the interruption of service. The SGRS participates in the ongoing investigation with Belnet, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the State Security Service and the CWB. It will put its contacts and technical and analytical capabilities at the service of the investigation. There is not yet an element to be communicated at this stage. For several years, the SGRS and Defence have been developing a cyber department whose expertise has already been put at the service of the company on numerous occasions. During this legislature, it is my will to invest even more in this capacity in order to respond more effectively to the tasks assigned to Defence within the framework of the national cybersecurity strategy, but also to equip Belgium with an operational capability to act in cyberspace as well as Defence and already active on land, sea and in the air. The development of components and dual capabilities make it a tool for the benefit of society as a whole in partnership with other players in the cyber world in Belgium, such as the Center for Cyber Security Belgium, the Federal Computer Crime Unit and the Regional Computer Crime Units, but also in partnership with industry and academia. In this context, Defence participated in the development of the National Cyber Security Strategy. This cyberattack once again underscores the need to prioritize cybersecurity investments and the ability to act in cyberspace, which Defence will do during this legislature. The first step in the creation of the component is to build the capacity of the current cyber leadership. This is the subject of an increase in investment in equipment and personnel. The budget of the European Recovery Plan and the budgets included in the National Security Strategy are among those essential investments. I have also planned the setting up of a "cyber and influence" project manager who, from the summer onwards, will focus on the work necessary for the evolution towards a capacity in its own right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u44	Mr President, I will reply out of respect for the minister and her collaborators who have prepared with her a well-built response. As we have seen from current events, the prioritization of informatics in Defence capability requires making it an essential component of the department. Once again, minister, do not dislike your critics, you show that you are a forerunner. I wanted to thank you for that. I assume that, at the NATO Summit on 17 June, all cyber aspects will also be discussed, as they are now a major issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is true that this episode - as well as the large-scale attack in recent months against the Home SPF, probably for espionage purposes - has demonstrated that we need to strengthen our arsenal to combat the growing number of cyberattacks. As I understand it, we still do not know who is in charge of this operation, which has paralyzed the Belgian services and administration for a few hours. I am pleased to hear that no confidential data have been stolen and that the Defence has not been reached too far. This tells us that, probably – and I hope so – the intention and the target were quite different. In any event, I encourage and support you, of course, in the development of this component. I hope that we can speed up its creation in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u46	Debates of the European Parliament 55017498C by Mrs Cornet will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u47	Madam Secretary, I shall now turn to my questions on the European Rapid Intervention Force. Why do you consider this proposal more viable than the EU Battlegroup's initiative that never came off the ground? A new proposal has been put forward for a brigade of 5,000 soldiers with the necessary support resources. What are the geographical, political and military parameters in which our country sees this intervention force operating? What are your views on the similar NATO initiative, the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF), which should mobilise 5,000 men in turn within 48 to 72 hours? The establishment of a rapid reaction force by 2022 is no longer far away. Can you clarify the time frame that will be used to fully or partially operationalise this rapid reaction force? A ready-made intervention force requires 24 hours of stand-by troops and resources, which is not only expensive, but also weighs on the already existing capacity problem of Defence. Is participation within the 2030 Strategic Vision or the renewed Horizon 2040 a possible option? How many units can our country commit to the maximum and how much would it cost? Do you have an idea of the possible cost distribution for the command, training and strategic transport of such an intervention force? Will this be financed through Europe? Or does this require a contribution from the participating Member States? A rapid deployment of 5,000 men at European level, especially outside the Union's borders, will not go through the current decision-making process within the European Council. With this choice, does the government indicate that it is abandoning unanimity in the Council for military missions? Who could decide on the stakes at European level if this should take place within 24 hours? Can our government still rule sovereignly on the deployment of our troops within this intervention force?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u48	The discussion on the development of a rapid military response capability is part of the establishment of the European Union's Strategic Compass. The Strategic Compass is an important political and strategic reflection under way and should currently update and clarify the EU's level of military ambition as part of its common foreign and security policy. Within this framework, Member States shall discuss and define military missions and capabilities necessary to achieve these ambitions. In order to improve EU operational readiness, several factors are envisaged, including the deployment of a rapid military response capability. The idea of a rapid response capability is not new. EU Battlegroups have existed since 2007. The Member States are in charge of the development of the Strategic Compass and can therefore make proposals themselves. For example, in a so-called food for thought paper, France put forward several ideas to improve the operationality of the EU. Fourteen Member States, including Belgium, supported the general ideas contained in this French reflection document. The creation of a rapid intervention force is only one think-pronged in this paper and is therefore still at a very embryonic stage. It is therefore premature to give clear wine on this matter today, given that there are no detailed parameters, such as cost estimates and impact on NATO and the VJTF. If all Member States support this proposal for the establishment of a European military intervention force, it will be included in the Strategic Compass and the practical modalities will be further developed. The Strategic Compass is expected in the first semester of 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u49	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Even if this is only the idea of an idea, I find that this project has, in many respects, a certain interest both for the European Union and for its Member States and their common ambitions. It is in line with the current European Commission at the beginning of the legislature: wanting to be a more geopolitical commission, affirming the EU's will to weigh on the international scene other than simply by the power of its internal market. On the other hand, I believe that the creation of such a rapid response force would represent a further step in the construction of a Europe of defence and in the progressive strengthening of the Union's strategic economy. I think it's really a case to keep an eye on. I will not fail to come back to you for more details in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u50	Mr President, Minister, I understand that we will continue to debate the Operational Plan 2022. In itself, I have no problem with such initiatives. Those are all big plans. For our defense, with the state in which our operational units are located, the diversity of assignments and theatres, including internationally, I wonder where we will get those people to enable those high-resorts, especially if that is in parallel with NATO and the EU, with both 5,000 men. I wonder how you'll put that puzzle. We shall wait and see.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u51	Madam Minister, I would have liked to ask this question as a written question. I had previously asked questions on this subject Nos 148 and 191. The legislative secretariat said that I was no longer allowed to put a supplementary question on this subject because there was already an answer and because Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure provides that the Minister's answers to written questions do not give rise to reply or debate. In other words, I could no longer put forward a written question. That is why I am obliged to put an oral question on this matter. In your previous answers to which I referred, you said that in 2020, six of the seven official journeys of the royal family were made by the King, and only by him. The total cost comes to 61,000 euros. The seventh trip to America was not budgeted because it was with the Special Forces. In your reply, you also say that the total cost of travel by the royal family was EUR 88,000. To my additional written questions to find out who made those official trips and to where they went, I did not receive an answer. That is why I am asking these questions in this session and refer to the four written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u52	Mr Buysrogge, in 2020 the Royal House made four unofficial movements with Defence aircraft. All trips were carried out with Embraer 135 or 145 devices. For the sake of privacy, no further details are given regarding the unofficial movements. The total cost is 61,413 euros for official movements and 27,116 euros for unofficial movements. The dates and duration of the official movements of His Majesty the King with his result are the following: 1 day in Germany on January 14, 1 day in Switzerland on January 20, 3 days in Israel from January 22, 1 day in Poland on January 27, 1 day in France on July 31 and 1 day in France on August 8.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u53	Madam Minister, I had already received the dates of official travel in response to my written questions. You say that for the sake of privacy one cannot tell where those unofficial trips went, who was present and when they took place. I do not agree with that, because this is tax money. So we cannot find out what the royal family spent EUR 27,000 on defence, and we have to make peace with that. I find that very strange, and I would therefore appreciate it if you could still give me that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u54	Madam Minister, in the past I asked you a written question about the number of potential beneficiaries, the applications and the titles already awarded on the veterans' statute. You did answer that question and you said in your answer that the Veteran Staff Regulations can indeed be granted for domestic missions, such as Operation Vigilant Guardian (OVG). The first condition, as you wrote, is that the military mission in question is recognised as a mission for which participants can obtain the veteran status. A second condition is to apply to the human resources management, which is not always done, because there are no material benefits associated with the veteran title. Some soldiers even speak of an empty box. On the other hand, the title of honor in the military world is worth a lot, and rightly so. You will receive from the Committee a list of missions, which you can validate or modify. In the past, the list has always been validated, but at the time of your reply to my written question OVG and a number of recent foreign missions have not yet been recognised. Madam Minister, have you in the meantime recognised OVG as an internal military operation for which the veteran status can be obtained by application? Do you in any way envisage a revaluation of the veteran status, as respect for our soldiers who risk bodies and members in domestic and foreign missions is of great importance? Is it an option to switch to automatic recognition of official military operations at home and abroad, as operations for which veteran status can be obtained without prior validation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u55	The award of the veteran's statute is governed by the Act of 10 April 2003 conferring the honorary title of veteran to certain staff of the Department of Defence. Pursuant to Article 2 of that Act, veterans are the personnel and former defence personnel who have participated in the King's operations. The honorary title of veteran is awarded for operations that are recognized by me on a proposal from a committee. Since the committee has not met in recent years, the OVG operation has not yet been recognised to award the veteran's honorary title. Re-evaluation of the veteran status and automatic recognition of military operations at home and abroad as operations for which the veteran status can be obtained are still part of the work of a working group within the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic495x.u56	Madam Secretary, you say the committee hasn't come together in years. What's the reason for that? Indeed, there have recently been a number of foreign and domestic operations which may deserve to be recognised as operations, as you see fit. It follows, of course, that military personnel can apply for the veteran status. Would you like or can you explain the reason for this? Military people deserve that recognition, especially in view of the past complications in our security policy, including on our territory, bearing in mind the 2016 attacks with the operation Vigilant Guardian that resulted from it. It should not matter whether the assignments are carried out at home or abroad. I hope that you will take this into account when recognising it. At present, the automation of this recognition and the revaluation of the veteran status are still part of the activities of the working group. We will, of course, continue to follow that up and question you about it.
