ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u2	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u3	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the violent floods that have hit our country and especially Wallonia have devastated the lives of thousands of people and have literally swallowed up several communes. We cannot forget the striking images of this natural disaster which has plunged so many of our compatriots into complete disarray. The human score is heavy; very heavy: at least 31 deaths and several dozen people still missing. Thousands of people called for help. Many of them are now deprived of everything. Some were looking for shelter to sleep, others were looking for food. With their possessions carried away by water and the destruction of their homes, a large number of victims saw the work of a lifetime swept away by the waves in a few moments. The decline has now given way to unprecedented desolation scenes: houses destroyed, trees torn, cars turned over, roads stoned. The most complete chaos still prevails in many places. In a disaster of this magnitude, we are simultaneously overwhelmed by feelings of deep sadness and great concern for the future. Of course, aid for those affected is now our first priority. Nevertheless, we must draw lessons from these events so that we can always act quickly to contain the damage caused by such disasters. The words of consolation seem useful in the light of the despair of those who have just lost everything. However, we share the sadness of the families that have been tried out, and we want all the measures taken to help all the victims of this disaster to the best of our ability. We want to pay tribute to the rescuers, firemen, civil protection, the police, the army and all those who have taken part in the rescue efforts in a spirit of admirable human solidarity. On behalf of our assembly, I also sent a message of support to my colleagues from the Dutch Lower House and the German Bundestag, because in those two countries too, and especially in Germany, these floods have had a devastating impact. As a witness of compassion towards the victims and their loved ones tomorrow, Tuesday, July 20, will be a national day of mourning. The flags of our Parliament and of all public buildings will be put in half-mast. At noon the sirens of the relief and intervention services will sound throughout the country. The population will then be invited to observe a minute of silence. I invited the presidents and group presidents or their replacements to accompany me tomorrow at noon at Place de la Nation to observe a minute of silence. The Senate will be associated with this ceremony. The day before this day of mourning and remembrance, I would ask the House to observe a minute's silence as a token of tribute to the victims of this unprecedented storm.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, no one could have predicted this natural disaster and no one could have prevented it. The power of nature cannot be dictated. As a result, its impact is considerable. As one experienced firefighter commander said: "We cannot prepare for a disaster of such magnitude. We really have to give up this idea. It is an illusion to believe that everything can be planned or controlled." Human suffering, emotional pain, material damage are enormous. Everything seems to have been swept away. On behalf of the government, I extend my sincere condolences to all families bereaved by the loss of a loved one. Our thoughts also go to friends, neighbours or colleagues who have lost a loved one. Currently, the search is continuing at an unbridled pace to find missing persons. Fear remains of finding more victims. Staying in uncertainty about the fate of a loved one is something terrible. I thank the research teams who, despite their fatigue, continue to look for an answer. We share their grief. It happened so suddenly, so unexpected, without the victims having time to say goodbye. We feel the despair of people who have seen all their assets accumulated over the years swept away in a few minutes. Faced with this force of nature, we feel small. But many have been up to the challenge. There is a huge momentum of solidarity and it is comforting. I invite everyone to be united in this mourning and to give each other time to unite. Taking time to really care about others benefits everyone. The tireless efforts of all our relief services and spontaneous solidarity make us believe that hope is reborn and that everything can be rebuilt. I am deeply affected by the sense of duty, courage and professionalism of all our relief workers, such as firefighters, civil protection, the police and the military. The immediate dedication of compatriots, often neighbours and relatives, is invaluable. It is to them that all the merit comes. In den folgenden Tagen und Wochen fängt der Wiederaufbau an. Die Regierung wird alles in ihrer Macht Stehende tun, um Wiederrestorlung zu ermöglichen und erleichtern. It's up to us to give new perspectives to the victims! We will do everything we can to try to restore these perspectives. No one saw this natural disaster coming, no one could have prevented it. The power of nature cannot be dictated. The scale of the disaster means that the impact is very large, or, as an experienced firefighter said: "A disaster of this magnitude cannot be prepared. We really need to let go of that idea. It is an illusion that everything can be planned or controlled. The human suffering and the emotional pain, like the material damage, are enormous. Everything seems to be wiped out." On behalf of the government, I offer our condolences to all affected families whose neighbor was snatched from their lives. We are also thinking here of all those who have lost a friend, a neighbour or a colleague. At the moment there is also feverish search for missing persons. The fear that even more deadly victims will be found remains. That is terrible for the many close friends who are still living in uncertainty about the fate of a loved one. I thank the search teams who put aside their fatigue and keep looking for an answer. Wir teilen ihre Trauer. Es geschah so plötzlich und unerwartet, sie hatten keine Zeit, sich zu verabschieden. Wir spüren die Verzweiflung der Menschen, die ihr Hab und Gut verlost haben, die alles, das sie im Laufe der Jahre aufgebaut haben, in wedigen Augenblicken lost. Against this force of nature we feel small, but in the meantime many showed themselves great. There is a lot of solidarity and that is heartwarming. I invite everyone to show solidarity in this mourning and to give room for the connection with each other. Making time to think about how things really are with the others, strengthens everyone. The continued use of all our services and spontaneity makes us believe that tomorrow there will be hope again and that everything can be rebuilt. I have also been deeply touched by the sense of duty, courage and professionalism of all our aid workers, such as firefighters, civil protection, policemen and the military. The commitment of fellow countrymen, often neighbors and neighbors, in the first hour is invaluable. They fit all the homage here. Over the next few days and weeks, reconstruction will begin. The government will do everything in its power to enable and facilitate recovery together with Parliament. It's up to us to give the victims a fresh perspective. We will do everything in our power to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, let us observe a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u6	Internationally renowned investigative journalist Peter R. de Vries died last week. He fell under the bullets of organized crime. His assassination is a serious violation of the fundamental right to freedom of information, which is a pillar of our democracies. Too many journalists pay their lives for the truth and freedom of expression. Dutch crime journalist Peter R. de Vries died last week after being shot by people from the crime scene. The murder is an attack on the fundamental right of freedom of information, one of the pillars of our democracy. Too many journalists pay for their pursuit of truth and freedom of speech with death. I sent a letter to my Tweede Kamer counterpart, Mrs Vera Bergkamp, expressing our support. In a letter to my homologist from the Lower House, Mrs Vera Bergkamp, I expressed our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u7	You have received an amended agenda for today's sitting. You received an amended agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u8	Madam President, I have given you an order motion for today's agenda. This is done out of necessity, because today is normally the last meeting before the recess and I would have liked to add an exchange of views after the discussion of the cooperation agreement to the agenda. The government is faced with many other problems which sometimes seem to be a government crisis, namely the hunger striker's file. Three parties publicly express their de facto confidence in the competent State Secretary through their party chairmen and ask that he return that file to the Prime Minister. Three other government parties do not want to give in to the blackmail and end the hunger strike if necessary. We have asked the Prime Minister to come and explain and answer our questions in the Committee on Home Affairs, which will meet next Thursday 22 July 2021. But through the cabinet, the committee secretariat was able to find out that the minister was not prepared to do so. The Prime Minister indicated that the government's position had not changed since he answered questions about this last time during Question Time. What the government position is, of course, depends on which government party is heard about it. The Prime Minister's response dates from the open threat of a government party to leave the government and to resign with all their ministers, if a deadly victim falls into the hunger striker. That is why I think it is really necessary for the Prime Minister to come to Parliament and explain this. We cannot go into the recess with a government crisis that is imminent, without hearing the Prime Minister about it and without hearing how he intends to defuse the crisis. That is why I am asking for this exchange of views to be added to the agenda and for the Prime Minister to be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u9	In the case of hunger strikers, we are confronted with constantly changing topicality, and in the past few hours there has been a serious controversy in the government about this particularly urgent matter, which is not denied by those involved. The far-reaching public contradictions were already apparent during Question Time last Thursday, but have now reached a different level. It's not just about party presidents anymore. In the past, we have experienced many times that party leaders openly criticize the government's policy. Today, ministers begin to contradict and denounce each other on Twitter. Apparently, it was also stated that the parties concerned did not deny this, and I hope that, in a certain situation, it does not occur; I am not talking about the political aspect, but the human aspect, namely very important government partners, two French-speaking and possibly also a Dutch-speaking one, would draw political conclusions from it. If the Prime Minister says that the policy is unchanged, then of course we would like to hear it here, not in an informal way. It is in our house that such announcements must be made, all the more so because the situation can escalate hours after hours and the last week of our normal work has begun. Against this background, it would seem very strong to me if the Prime Minister refused to inform the House of the very youngest situation and, if necessary, confirm that the events of the last few hours make no difference to him. But even that would be interesting news. That is why we have tabled a motion asking for the Prime Minister to be invited here after the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u10	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u11	A first order motion was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "Having regard to the request of the Presidents of the Green, Ecolo and PS government parties that the Prime Minister should draw up the file on the hunger strikers in the Brussels Beguinage Church and on the campuses of VUB and ULB; having regard to the statements of the Presidents of the Green, Ecolo and PS Government Parties that the competent Secretary of State Mahdi in the above-mentioned case is creating a 'principal blocking'; having regard to the threat from Deputy Prime Minister Dermagne that the PS 'within the hour' excellencies should leave the government if one of the hunger strikers dies; in view of the government crisis and even -fall that threatens in this file; decides to register 'The Government crisis on hunger strikers in Brussels' on the agenda of its plenary session of Monday 19 July 2021; calls on the Chamber of Representatives of the Belgian Government, and in particular the Prime Minister, Mr De Croo, to provide the Chamber of Representatives in plenary with the necessary explanations on this crisis of government." A first point of order was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "Having regard to the request of the presidents of the parties of the Groen, Ecolo and PS coalition to the Prime Minister to take charge of the dossier concerning hunger strikers present in the Béguinage church in Brussels as well as on the campuses of the VUB and the ULB; Having regard to the comments of the presidents of the Groen, Ecolo and PS government parties that the competent Secretary of State, Mr Sammy Mahdi, creates a "blocking in principle" in the above-mentioned dossier; in view of the threat made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Pierre-Yves Dermagne, that the representatives of the PS will leave the government "within an hour" if one of the hunger strikers dies; in view of the government crisis and even the risk of the government falling on this issue; The Chamber decided to include the question of "The government crisis concerning hunger strikers in Brussels" on the agenda of its plenary meeting on Monday, 19 July 2021; The House asks the Belgian Government, and more specifically the Prime Minister, Mr. De Croo, to provide the Chamber meeting in plenary with the necessary explanations on this government crisis." I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u12	A second point of order was tabled by Mr Peter De Roover and reads as follows: "In view of the recent developments, the new elements and the numerous public statements made by government parties in the file concerning the undocumented people on hunger strike, we call on the Prime Minister to state the situation at the plenary session on 19 July. We ask for the application of Article 100 of the Constitution and Article 50 of the Rules of Procedure." A second point of order was tabled by Mr. Peter De Roover and reads as follows: "In view of the recent developments, the new developments and the numerous public statements made by the government parties on the issue of the group of undocumented hunger strikers, we request the presence of the Prime Minister for clarification of the above situation during the plenary session on 19 July. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u13	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u14	Madam President, at the outset, I would ask colleagues to show a great manslaughter, since we have concluded our work in committee a few moments ago. Of course, the services did not have time to prepare a report. I'm still writing it with my little fingers! I will not be very long, but I will try to submit a full report. Colleagues will complete me if I forget. The Minister presented his project and outlined it. The text provides the legal basis for the processing of personal data necessary for, firstly, the issuance and verification of certificates of vaccination, testing and recovery in the context of the European Union digital covid-19 certificate; secondly, the issuance and verification of a Covid Safe Ticket, which is a different form from the previous one, in so far as it contains fewer personal data, so as to guarantee the conditions of proportionality, confidentiality and completeness of the data underlying the European Union digital covid-19 certificate. In addition, the Covid Safe Ticket can only be read by an application called "Covid Scan"; this is only at the threshold of experience or pilot projects approved by the government as soon as the cooperation agreement or a mass event authorized from 13 August comes into force. Since the intention is not, in any case, to create, through the Covid Safe Ticket, a habit that access to certain places must be subject to the presentation of evidence or certificates, the Cooperation Agreement specifies that its scope must be limited to what is included in this cooperation agreement which is in an exceptional situation. As long as the covid 19 pandemic is to be combated, subject to a reasonable data retention period and a time limitation, the Covid Safe Ticket is a proportionate tool to stop the spread of coronavirus. The objective is, of course, to allow cultural and social life to resume its course, while, for the events covered by this cooperation agreement, there is no less intrusive method for preserving the safety and health of visitors and the staff of these events. Event organizers are clearly prohibited from storing or processing the personal data they receive at a later date through the Covid Safe Ticket, except during the period of validity of the Covid Safe Ticket. The text also contains a number of additional provisions concerning the processing of PLF data. Finally, it also regulates the processing of personal data of employees and self-employed persons living or residing abroad and carrying on activities in Belgium. It should be stressed at the outset that all parties have expressed a willingness to resume cultural activities. Several groups also welcomed the fact that the comments of the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority had been taken into account. The PTB, cdH and Défi all deplored the fact that the text does not define certain notions such as major events. The Minister indicated that this should be the subject of a new enforcement cooperation agreement, in particular following the Codeco this afternoon and detailing its measures. For the N-VA, Ms Kathleen Depoorter stressed and welcomed the widely negotiated agreement. She stated that she was pleased with the cooperation agreement which she considered to be a solid legal basis for the various certificates and a new step towards a return to normal life. She therefore, on behalf of her party, approved this cooperation agreement. For Ecolo, Ms Laurence H annoine welcomed the fact that the cooperation agreement had been revised following the opinion of the Data Protection Authority. It also welcomed the fact that the agreement was limited in time. In her view, however, it would have been desirable for the cooperation agreement to define the concept of a mass event, to which the minister replied. For the Socialist Party, Patrick Prévot stressed that this text brought legal stability and that the objective was of course to allow a return to cultural and social life. Ms. Gilson asked about the participation of children under the age of 12 in major events. The minister was able to reassure her in this context. At the PTB level, Ms. Merckx lamented above all the form and the fact that it was discussed in intercabinets. It also considers that the concept of mass event is too vague. It also recalls that access to culture is expensive and pleads, like Test Achats and Unia, to refund more tests. The Minister recalled that two free PCR tests per person were scheduled this summer. Ms. Merckx also asked the Minister about the misuse of data while pointing out that it raised many questions raised by the Data Protection Authority. At the level of L'Open Vld, Mr. De Caluwé recalled that freedom also means responsibility and solidarity. Those who wish to participate in a festival or pilot experience must be able to do so in a secure manner. For this reason, the Covid Safe Ticket is a matter of security and responsibility. Here, ladies and gentlemen, in telegraphic style, my report. I was still busy noting each other's interventions before I was forced to report, so I was not able to give you any questions from Mrs Fonck, in particular, to which the minister replied at a very long time. These responses were more or less appreciated on the basis of either the opposition or the majority. Madam Chair, there were sixteen voters. Article 1 was voted unanimously. Rule 2 was voted on by 13 votes to none, with three abstentions. The bill was voted on by 13 votes in favour, no votes against and three abstentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Prévot for his time in producing the report. After all, I certainly had the impression that I had also made a statement this afternoon. However, it has escaped Mr Prévot's attention. I assume that this has nothing to do with malice, nor with the questions I have asked or with the criticisms I have made. I shall wait with confidence for the written report that is currently being prepared. Colleagues, this bill regulates the health and privacy of our people in the context of the formatting and issuing of the EU covid certificate, the vaccination certificate, the recovery certificate and the so-called Covid Safe Ticket. This is supplemented by a number of provisions relating to the PLF. Colleagues, don't worry. I will not repeat the exercise that we have done in committee this afternoon and this morning. That would be crazy. However, I must say once again that this agreement puts our Parliament before the facts and that we, as a mature talker, can only ratify the agreement. Colleagues, that being said, I can only conclude that the Prime Minister has already given his European colleagues his agreement and that we are allowed to palave something as a kind of occupational therapy, in order to finally take note of this as a sort of notary clerk. In the Committee on Health, the Flemish Interest made a number of comments and asked a number of questions. A number of questions were answered by the Minister and not by others. Sometimes the Minister has even limited himself to re-reading what is in the draft law, for which thanks, Minister. In some answers I could find myself and in others I couldn't. Mr Minister, to my question whether the present draft law does not go against the so-called "overwrite ban," you replied only to increase readability for the reader's convenience. The fact is, however, that you continue to oppose the transfer ban in this way. So if the regulation in question changes, you may also amend the text. However, I note that completely aside. We shall be happy to discuss this at that time. The criticism that, with the implementing cooperation agreements, you undermine the consent of the legislator, this House, that is to say Parliament, remains unanswered. You replied: 'I think it is the most normal thing for this to be settled through the government'. With all due respect, Minister, I understand that from your point of view, but it was a bit of a sois belle et tais-toi for Parliament. If I were a bad person, I have already told you in committee, then I might think that it was the intention to hide a number of difficult points in these implementing cooperation agreements, in order to escape control by the Council of State. As I told you in committee, I am not a bad person or always. You also did not have a clear definition for a number of concepts. There was also some uncertainty about the concept of mass event. You were able to tell us this morning, or was it this afternoon, I have just forgotten, in committee that this would be on the agenda of the Consultative Committee. Apparently, that turned into 1,500 people, we were allowed to hear through the media. That's not Tomorrowland like most Flemings and Walen imagine when they hear the word mass event, but a brush fair or dinner feast washed out of the clods. A dinner party, I'm just saying something, from a Guy D'Haeseleer from Ninove easily transcends this number. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, clarity is also what the people are most anxious for, I think to myself. An EU-covid certificate, a vaccination certificate, a test certificate, a recovery certificate, a Covid Safe Ticket-safe ticket, the CovidSafeBE app, the Passenger Locator Form and so on: I think, frankly, that the man and the woman in the street are barely getting out of it and wondering out loud what exactly they should do to leave tomorrow or to watch a football game, let alone a gig by some group. In my humble opinion, Minister, you have a difficult task ahead of you in order to have it clearly communicated to the people. After all, there is only one thing that needs to be clarified. Minister, a while ago, in choir with the Prime Minister, you said you didn't want a pass society. In the Committee on Health, you said several times that vaccination would not be compulsory in any way. Those were two tough promises and yet I cannot get rid of the impression that this is happening now, in an implicit and overflowing way. I would like to raise the question of where to go in the future without some kind of certificate. In France, care personnel are required to be vaccinated at the command of President Macron and a covid pass is needed to visit a café, restaurant, cinema or even a shopping centre. Minister, I made the point in committee that we all know what happens in Brussels when it rains in Paris, but you replied - fortunately - that there cannot be a pass society and that the French example is a bad example that will not be followed. I can only hope that with you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Flemish Interest understands the will, the desire, the desire for a normal life, as we knew it a year and a half ago in this country. We too, and I do not know anyone who does not want that, but I do oppose the easy criticism, the easy slogan, the easy commentary of some of my colleagues that anyone who criticizes this draft does not want people to be able to go back to events, football matches, stage performances or performances. There is no one who does not want all kinds of events to go on again, but honesty commands us to say that this does not stand or fall with a pass or certificate. Just look at the Netherlands, to which the Minister referred in committee. What everyone wants, including the people in the event sector, is clarity. Moreover, this clarification must also be made with regard to respect for security and privacy in relation to all these certificates and, above all, with regard to their apps. After all, how quickly privacy is on the streets has been proven last weekend with the safety leak at Testcornanu, a company active in the Netherlands and also with us. The Minister was able to tell me this morning that fortunately no data of compatriots were compromised, but that is not something 60,000 Dutch people can say. This incident shows, above all, that we must be very careful about the privacy and security of our citizens' data. Minister, although you deny that there may be any discrimination based on the state of health, this is true in the facts. The fact is that someone who is in charge of ordinary access control, the bouncer as we all know, gets a de facto view of someone's personal state of health. Whether you like it or not, briefly said: green has been vaccinated, red has not been vaccinated, and the status of health cannot be much clearer. How far are we from a health access ticket? In unsuspecting times, on 29 November last year, a very interesting article appeared in Het Nieuwsblad on the proposal of Chinese President Xi Jinping at the G-20 Summit to facilitate international travel by introducing personal health codes. The journalist in question, Mrs Nath, asked a number of pertinent questions about that proposal. Let me quote her: "The proposal seems to be primarily an attempt to control anyone who wants to enter his country. What if other countries go along with his proposal? Does China's big brother model conquer the world thanks to corona?" Colleagues, that was a journalist doing her job. Luckily, there's still one. But these are questions for a moment, especially in the light of what we have to approve here today, and certainly in the light of what is happening in the world today. Ladies and gentlemen, before you start thinking other things, I will make it clear again, as in committee, that we are not anti-vaxers. Flemish Interest is not against vaccinations. I've been lucky enough to get two shots myself. But I do give everyone the freedom to make that choice for themselves. That is also my party's position. That is also the view of Flemish Interest. As a party, we understand the position and attitude of people who have decided not to want a vaccine or not to want a vaccine at the moment. The attitude of these people is probably at least partly related to the way in which the pandemic was tackled in this country, with the pardon my francness media horniness and the contradictory statements of certain experts and especially the avalanche of jojo measures taken by the various governments. With Flemish Interest, we fit for the implicit or implicit pass company, even if that is not the intention. We do see the need for clarity, both for the people and for the event sector. For this reason, Flemish Interest will not vote against, but abstain from the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u16	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the adoption of a cooperation agreement on three issues: the Covid Safe Certificate, the Passenger Locator Form and, above all, the introduction of the Covid Safe Ticket, either as an app or on paper. This ticket will have to be shown before participating in certain events. The first thing I should like to say is that we note that Parliament's role here is limited to a notary role. Everything is actually decided by the Consultative Committee, by the Cabinets and by the Ministers. I am also somewhat surprised at the selective indignation of the N-VA about the role of Parliament. We often hear the call for debate, but when the Vivaldi government finally makes an agreement with the Flemish government, everything can be pushed through. There won't even be any questions. However, there are really questions to be asked about this agreement. Firstly, there is the discussion on the definition of a mass event. This morning the criterion was 5,000 people, this afternoon the Consultative Committee decided that it would be 1,500 in the future. So what's to stop tomorrow from 500 and 100 next week? Many questions are, of course, also about access to culture and the right to culture. As Test-Achats says, the price of the tests is very high. Moreover, it has now been decided that events with at least 5,000 attendees are no longer involved, now it starts from 1,500 attendees. That makes participation for a lot of people a very expensive business. There are also many questions about the processing of our personal data, especially in view of the criticisms made, inter alia, by the Data Protection Authority of this agreement. Either the indignation of the N-VA is selective, or this agreement basically represents the two-speed society for which the N-VA also stands and therefore has no problem with it. When I criticised the procedure this morning and this afternoon, the Minister said a few times that I had no understanding of politics and that it is normal that Parliament has no decision-making role and that the government can decide everything. That is also the philosophy behind the pandemic law, the philosophy with which this crisis was tackled from the outset. I would like to go back to the notion of a mass event. Minister, you told us that it was normal for Codeco to indicate what a mass event is. You say that I have not understood anything about the functioning of Parliament. Therefore, it is normal for Parliament to have nothing to say. In the morning it can be 5,000 people and in the afternoon it can be 1,500 people and why not 500 or 100 tomorrow? What is the guarantee that we are not moving towards a health pass as Mr Macron wants? Minister, I am not the only one to say that. I agree with the opinion of the Data Protection Authority, which states: "The Authority also notes that the draft cooperation agreement defines the concept of mass event in a very broad way. From when can an event be described as a mass event in the context of the Covid Safe Ticket application? Does the event require 100, 1,000, 10,000 or 100,000 people to qualify as a mass event? The answer to this question is a fundamental element in assessing the proportionality of interference with fundamental rights caused by the introduction of a Covid Safe Ticket and in ensuring the predictability of the rules governing it. The authors of the draft must therefore determine in the cooperation agreement, of legislative rank itself, what is to be understood by mass event, without being able to delegate the definition of this concept to the Minister of the Interior." Minister, what do you say to the Data Protection Authority, when you told me this afternoon that it had been 150 years since that was the case. In this regard, I would also like to quote Élise Degrave, professor of law at the University of Namur and a specialist in digital law who "reduces a technocratic drift and stresses that the introduction of this ticket should not be taken lightly. If we restrict access to certain places on the basis of the Covid Safe Ticket, we commit ourselves to the decision that the exercise of our rights and freedoms is conditioned on our state of health". The fact that the pass can be obtained in paper form does not fully answer this teacher's question. We are talking about privacy, the risk of discrimination, access to fundamental rights, the risk of a digital divide. All this deserves better than discussions in the shadow of the intercabinets meetings, as Philippe Laloux of the newspaper Le Soir also points out, and then takes it to the next level in Parliament, without having the time either to analyse the texts properly or to have an in-depth debate. I can only agree with Philippe Laloux when he says that "requiring a democratic debate is precisely to ensure the effectiveness of health measures because they gain legitimacy and forge the confidence that has been so lacking since the beginning of the crisis". The way in which the debate is taking place is therefore very regrettable, as is the way in which you defend it. Indeed, if we look at the substance of this question, it seems to me that our government continues to be in an emergency without really wanting to question its failing strategy. For example, with regard to the Covid Safe Ticket, it would have been an opportunity to discuss it seriously in Parliament since mid-May. Since 19 May, the experts' opinion has been ready. Instead of an in-depth debate on this subject, on 19 July we are proposed to vote quickly on a text. This is also because the substantive strategy is not good. The government still refuses to do the work necessary to fight this virus. The conclusions of the Covid special commission, which are so meagre, are also proof of this. Today, where are we in the search for supercontaminants? Nowhere! What is the status of the search for contact centres? Nowhere! Our tracking system is really ineffective. We only relied on vaccination. These are failures that we must see. By December, you promised us the kingdom of freedom. Today, we're not there at all! Finally, there is still insecurity and decisions are made on the basis of compromise and not on the basis of an effective strategy. You didn't answer my questions. Why go from 5,000 to 1,500? Why did you decide that neither at that time would there be any wearing of the mask? Why don't you still use antigenic tests? Indeed, they seem to be an effective option in that one can obtain the result a quarter of an hour later and do not have this window between the PCR test and entry to the festival for example. In addition, it does not provide security to organizers of major events. Who says that in two weeks, it won't be for 500 people? What more tests will have to be done, and how much more time will the PCR test take? We went from 72 to 48 hours, maybe we'll go to 24 hours. What about big weddings? Moreover, this Covid Safe Ticket poses a problem in terms of access to culture for all. This access is a fundamental right, but once again, the public will be further away from it. PCR or antigenic tests cost between 26 and 48 euros. I recall your statements, Mr Vandenbroucke, about which you also did not reply. I've been repeating my questions since this morning. You have cynically stated, about the Covid Safe Ticket, that those who can afford to go to Pukkelpop or Tomorrowland can afford a PCR test. What more elitist as a statement? It's revolting. It is contrary to the vision of culture that we defend at the PTB. Yes, young people bleed to have the right to participate in a music festival with their friends. Entrance tickets are already very expensive, not to mention camping or food tickets. With this Covid Safe Ticket, you will have to add the price of a PCR or antigenic test from 26 to 48 euros. It's a huge extra money to finance. Of course, measures must be taken to combat the virus, but we do not want them to lead us to a two-speed society, which is the case for this proposal. The federal government decided last month to provide two free PCR tests to the population. A few days ago, more than 700,000 people had requested it. This shows that the need exists and that it is necessary. The passport will be introduced on August 13 and many young people will not be fully vaccinated. Currently, only 24 per cent of 18-34-year-olds are fully vaccinated. Yes, Codeco could have decided today to refund more PCR or antigenic tests as requested by both Unia and Test Purchases. Finally, you have answered in part on some aspects, but not entirely. The cooperation agreement does not provide a guarantee that the Covid Safe Ticket is, in fact, required, even illegally, by someone who runs a restaurant, supermarket or shopping centre. On this point, the Data Protection Authority has also drawn attention. In addition, some of the control delegations of this Covid Safe Ticket are illegal: for example, some transport operators can check the content. Ultimately, a police mission is assigned to the private sector. As you will understand, my group will abstain, because this text is poorly arranged and does not allow the rights and freedoms of our citizens to be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u17	Madam President, allow me to repeat what Mrs Merckx said. Mrs Merckx, you mentioned N-VA several times and you seemed worried, as if we had suddenly changed our minds completely and as if we were suddenly lacking in any critical attitude. At the committee meeting, my colleague explained why we will support this draft law, but I would like to repeat that explanation, because I do not think you understood it correctly. For a year and a half we have been living in an abnormal situation, an abnormal world. Society is looking forward to reopening, both the cultural sector and the event sector itself, but of course also the public. People want to be able to re-establish their social contacts and move back to a normal situation as much as possible. In order to be able to organise this, measures are needed, because that organisation must be able to be safe. That is a very delicate operation, because we must now find out who is at risk to others. In view of its delicateness, a framework is needed for this purpose and a cooperation agreement was drawn up. This cooperation agreement is indeed not perfect; we agree on that. However, the observations of the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority have been taken into account. This agreement is also limited in time, which is also a very important aspect. We will now approve this bill because the agreement is now needed. At the same time, we would certainly like to point out that we will definitely continue to monitor the parliamentary role and importance of data protection. I'm counting on what's ahead now can't be the new normal. Should it prove necessary to extend this agreement in time, we will insist that the government comes to Parliament with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u18	Madam Chair, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is not an ordinary bill. That's the least we can say. Its speed of processing in the Chamber is inversely proportional to the scope of the text. Tags in the content are essential to achieve a well-balanced framework. The way in which the government arrives at the last minute, using the holidays as a pretext for not making a scrupulous examination of the text, obviously raises a wide question. Our lines of defence against the covid epidemic are plural and each of them is essential to control the epidemic, to ensure health security, to avoid almost permanent confinements and semi-confinitions as we have known them, while also allowing the resumption of activities. These plural lines of defense, I think they are often forgotten. Of course, there is vaccination, but there are still 50% of people who have received only one dose. A million fragile people have still not received any doses. Vaccination still remains a race against time, especially against the new variants, including the delta - but there are already the following ones, epsilon and iota. There are the barrier measures, of course; testing, tracing, and the effectiveness of isolation. In this respect, Minister, avoiding new entries or returns of these variants in Belgium is a fundamental thing. There is still insufficient control. Tracing too. The search for supercontaminants is still not effective in Belgium after a year and a half of epidemic. The effectiveness of isolation raises questions. I think there must be a strengthening in this area. The part of the ventilation is still and still postponed, if I understand what has been said to the Codeco today. In this plural range of defence lines that need to be reinforced, there is the cooperation agreement on the European passport. Let us acknowledge that there has been a lot of debate in the European Parliament about it, and choices have been made. There is also now the Covid Safe Ticket, which, as I said, was presented to us in a rush with a lack of anticipation - it's not as if we've been talking about it since yesterday - and also with a rush to the level of treatment in the House, when there are fundamental issues that affect fundamental rights and freedoms and are directly related to privacy. The review of this text was carried out quickly, without the involvement of experts, without a societal debate. This review was very different from that of the bill and the covid enforcement cooperation agreement. However, this application was far less intrusive than the current system, in terms of fundamental rights. This is all the more worrying as all this happens when the opinion, in particular, of the Data Protection Authority has not been followed up on a whole series of crucial points. I am thinking of the data, but also of some of the tags contained in this text which are small or insufficient. I have heard my colleague read the report. Let us recognize that engaging in this exercise under such conditions of debate is not simple! I agree with that. However, I heard him say that the Council of State and ODA had been followed. No! While attention was paid to their remarks - and it was sufficient to look at the texts to realize this - the Minister himself acknowledged that on several occasions the comments of the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority had not been taken into account. These are not details or commas, but major issues related to data, how they are stored, and the clear absence of a prohibition on their retention. Now, let me remind you, anything that is not prohibited is allowed. The inadequacy of these beacons therefore dangerously leaves the field free to drifts. A wide-ranging delegation to implementing cooperation agreements is also foreseen. Of course, it is not unusual to use such a technique. However, it is much more so to extend the scope of this action, affecting key issues relating to fundamental rights and freedoms, but also to data. Can this be useful, especially in relation to control of the epidemic, clusters, etc.- Is that what you're saying? The answer is clearly yes. Anyway, I think so. But besides that, it is just as crucial, if not more so, to have a regulatory framework, a legislative framework, a framework for cooperation agreements with serious beacons and important safeguards. In this regard, it seems to me that this is a problem in the text that you submit to us here, both with regard to the scope, use and processing of personal data, a lack of definition and precision, and the way in which some may have access to it. However, we must take a decision on these aspects of this text, which was discussed "vet fait, bien fait". I don't know. I think it's kind of "vete fait, malaise fait". In addition, Minister, you are announcing this Covid Safe Ticket until the end of September. I have three questions to ask you about this. The answer will be brief. Will this epidemic be completed by the end of September? Unfortunately, the answer is no! Will everyone be vaccinated by the end of September? The answer is, unfortunately, again, no! Will there be no more activities for 5,000 people, but 1,500 people after the end of September, after Spa-Francorchamps and this summer's festivals? The answer is no! There will of course always be this type of activity. The choices that are made are in substance quite surprising in terms of strategy and are based on the question of a broader societal debate that would have helped to build confidence, better define the objectives and tools that we want to use and, above all, to strengthen the efficiency of our fight against this epidemic. All these reasons, Madam President, lead our group to abstain on this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u19	Madam President, we have had a good debate in committee today, including many technical issues. A number of matters of principle were again raised here. I would like to respond very briefly to that. The Covid Safe Ticket is an instrument to take seriously and secure the freedom we gradually acquire. That's what this is about. The objective is very well defined in the legal cooperation agreement. It is about mass events and in an initial period also about test experiments and pilot projects that prepare those mass events for the use of the Covid Safe Ticket. So it's not about cafes and restaurants. It's not about family parties. It has nothing to do with that. In this sense, we do not follow the French example at all. We do think it is good to ensure, if a large group of people wants to come together relaxed and without restrictions, that the people who enter are safe, either because they are fully vaccinated, or because they have taken a negative test. I said in committee that what is perfectly normal in our democracy is leaving the details of the implementation of that principle to the executive. For example, the definition of a mass event will be determined in a ministerial decision after consultation with all governments in the Consultation Committee. That is what we discussed this afternoon. We have defined a mass event as an event that takes place outside with more than 1,500 participants and that from August 13th. Not before. So we're taking our time here. We want more people vaccinated. So not before August 13, just outside and in the case of more than 1,500 participants, then one creates a context in which one gives the participants freedom and secures that freedom through the question that the participants are fully vaccinated or have undergone a negative test. Originally we had the idea to give that freedom for events inside as of August 13th. This afternoon we decided not to do so and in that sense the perspective is intertwined. For indoor events, the scheme is postponed until 1 September. The reason for this is that the virus is circulating very strongly and more people need to be vaccinated first, before events no longer need to be kept within safe distance and no longer wear a mouth mask. For events outside, we think that is possible, provided that the above mentioned certificate is protected. The details of the Covid Safe Ticket for festivals are set out in the executive cooperation agreement which governments negotiate and ratify with each other, which does not come into Parliament. It is already clear that a PCR test should not be 72 hours old. He shouldn't be more than two days old. When he's older, there's a little too much risk being taken. In the Netherlands we have seen what happens if a little too much risk is taken. Then there will be big consequences. That's why we're looking at the location of the rapid antigen tests throughout the story. We have not yet made a final decision on this matter. That's still under review. We absolutely want to avoid the mistakes that have been made in the Netherlands, such as the lack of control over the use of such a safe ticket. We will have serious checks and inspections. That's a deal too. Local authorities will also play an important role in this. Insufficient rigour with regard to the time limits within which the negative test certificates are valid will also be avoided. The focus here is on the PCR test. That's the most reliable test. It shouldn't be more than two days old. Or one must be fully vaccinated at least 14 days before entering a festival on the basis of vaccination. We will not make the mistake that the Netherlands made in dancing with Janssenstory in which people were allowed to enter a party immediately after their vaccination. Nor will we, as the Netherlands has done, allow indoor events, indoor events on a large scale and open discotheques. We won't. All that needs to be looked at later. I also said in committee, in response to Mrs Fonck, that Rule 33 is actually a material error. Article 33 (3) states that "except as expressly provided for in paragraph 1, first'. First of all, it shouldn't be there. That is not a terrible mistake, because taking it literally means that some provisions go through until 30 June 2022 instead of 30 September 2021. They'll run a little longer than they intended. For the rest, however, it is quite clear that the entire operative part will end on 30 September. The simplest thing is to inform the other parliaments about this material error, which is corrected in the printing test. If the services of the other parliaments were to object afterwards, we could still settle this with an amended cooperation agreement when sitting time is reopened. But honestly, it's really a material mistake. It means that there is a bit of uncertainty as to whether some provisions will end on 30 September of this year or on 30 June of next year. In fact, if one takes the entire operative part, the Covid Safe Ticket falls silent on September 30th, because, for example, Article 14 clearly states that the processing of the data by the Flemish agency Digital Flanders must stop on September 30th. So there's really no doubt. That material error is a bit annoying. I propose that we consider it a material error, that we let the other parliaments know that there is a mistake in the underlying cooperation agreement, that this has been demonstrated by this debate. I propose that we send that communication to the other parliaments. If we say afterwards that this must be regulated for legal certainty, we need a new cooperation agreement in September, with an amendment to it, but I do not think this will be necessary. It also has no impact on what happens between now and the end of September and in practice no impact after that either. We can still fix this. In substance, however, it is about taking freedom seriously. The decisions taken by the Conciliation Committee this afternoon mean that we will take the matter even more seriously in terms of control and scope. We count on the commitment of all organizers to make mass events fine events thanks to this instrument.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u20	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u21	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2129/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2129/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u22	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u23	The Chamber must proceed to the vote on naturalizations, Nos. 2058/1 and 2. The Chamber should proceed to the secret ballot on naturalisations, Nos 2058/1 and 2. Since the quorum was not reached on 15 July 2021, I propose that you proceed to this secret ballot during the plenary meeting on Thursday, 30 September 2021. Since the quorum was not reached on 15 July 2021, I propose that you proceed to this secret vote at the plenary session of 30 September 2021. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Members may vote from Monday 13 September 2021 until Thursday 30 September 2021 at 4 p.m. Ballot papers and parliamentary documents are available in the General Secretariat. - Members may vote from Monday 13 September 2021 until Thursday 30 September 2021 at 4 p.m. The ballots and parliamentary documents are available in the General Secretariat. I would remind you that: - Only members may receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on site and deposited in the ballot box. - The proposed naturalization laws cannot be signed. - A member who does not intend to grant naturalization to an applicant will delete the name of the applicant from the list given to him. I would remind you that: - Only members can receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. - The proposal of naturalisation laws should not be signed. - Where a member opposes the naturalisation of an applicant, he shall delete the name of the person concerned from the list supplied to him. - The vote containing the ballot papers will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday, 30 September 2021. - The urn with the ballots will be opened during the plenary session of Thursday 30 September 2021. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u24	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions on 13 July 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Social Affairs, Work and Pensions of 13 July 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 150/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Hans Verreyt; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Chanelle Bonaventure. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 150/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Hans Verreyt; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Chanelle Bonaventure. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Since the simple motion is a matter of automatic priority, I shall put it to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u25	Madam President, the posting of foreign workers in our construction yards not only causes a significant loss of Flemish and Walloon jobs and the undermining of our social security, it also creates unfair competition with our own companies and employees. Despite the fact that certain safeguards have been incorporated into the European directive, it offers a great deal of opportunities for malicious businesses. The consequences of social dumping are considerable. The working conditions of posted workers are often repulsive and the rules on safety, hygiene, health and minimum wages laid down in the regulations are often not or difficult to enforce. The foreign undertaking providing the services must also ensure that social security contributions are paid in the country of origin. In many countries these social contributions are a lot lower than ours, which in any case already creates unfair competition with our workers. The control of its effective payment is, of course, also difficult. The recent tragic accident in the construction of a school in Antwerp once again pushed our society to the ground, our construction sites are becoming increasingly international. At first, it was not even clear to the emergency services what nationality the deadly victims had. According to the construction trade union, the number of yard accidents involving foreign workers will only increase. Throughout the chain of subcontractors, control is difficult. A contractor may hire a subcontractor, for example from Romania, who in turn can hire a self-employed person from Russia or Uzbekistan. This creates a situation that simply cannot be regulated. It also increases, of course, the chance that these workers do not know our language. Our safety regulations are also unknown to them, as are our materials and techniques. All that makes the risk of an accident a lot bigger. The figures speak for themselves. In the 2020 corona year, there were 223,000 foreign workers at work in our country. Of these, no less than 45,000 workers came from outside the European Union. Twelve years ago, there were only 5,000. On 13 July, I held an interplay in the Committee on Social Affairs on this issue, which I concluded with a motion for a resolution. I call on Members to support this motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u26	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u27	Yes 83 Yes No. [[46]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u28	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, as we approach the end of our work, I would like to address you a few words. Since March 2020 – 16 months already! – Our country, the European Union and the world are severely affected by the health crisis linked to VOCID-19. Like all Belgians and all public institutions and enterprises, our Assembly has profoundly changed its functioning so that parliamentary work can continue and in order to carry out our essential tasks. Adaptation has not been easy, because after all, parliamentary activities require real contacts. But we had no choice: the health crisis and other social and economic challenges required urgent legislative work. My dear colleagues, a fleeting glance at what we have done over the past year, teaches us that we have not been idle. Since September last year we held 65 plenary sessions, in which the MPs asked the government more than 800 topical questions. Above all, however, we have adopted a number of legislative texts, first and foremost to support citizens and the social, public, health, cultural and economic sectors that suffer from the sanitary crisis. At the same time, the Special Commission COOVID-19 continued its work to analyse and evaluate crisis management and to formulate recommendations for the future. We look forward to her report with great interest. Important legislative work has also been done in the social, economic, judicial and environmental fields. Some figures to illustrate parliamentary activities: the number of oral questions in committee and in plenary increased by almost 40%, the number of texts adopted (laws and resolutions) increased by 16%. Numerous resolutions have been adopted, in particular texts on international issues, which reflect our strong commitment to human rights and to the fight against discrimination. In addition to the legislative work in the strict sense of the term, many efforts have been made over the past year to improve the functioning of our Assembly in collaboration with the Presidents and Group Presidents. The Accounting Commission has accelerated the process of creating synergies between the institutions empowered to receive grants. An unprecedented exercise to bring about both harmonisation and efficiency gains, but also and above all a better service for citizens. In addition, I would like to welcome the fact that the services of the Chamber have just presented me with a document that summarizes their strategic vision of how they will operate over the next 5 to 10 years. This vision reflects their ambition to be a professional organization, with a human face, focused on internal communication, sustainable, at the service of citizens, in partnership with parliamentarians. We also want the House to become more sustainable by making our buildings more energy efficient and, at the same time, more environmentally friendly daily operations. The plan adopted by the Governance Committee on March 31st is a good proof that our assembly wants to make a real contribution to the environmental sustainability that we urgently need. Ladies and gentlemen, when I took office in October 2020, I promised to defend the fundamental values of our rule of law: first, freedom, equality and emancipation. Together with my colleague, the President of the Senate, we have set up an important shipyard: by 2030, the Federal Parliament must have become one of the European Parliaments most alert to the gender dimension. This objective concerns both Members of Parliament and officials and political staff. The Joint Committee on the Evaluation of State Reforms, which has been examining institutional reforms since 1970, will have to carry out important evaluation work in order to identify the issues of division of powers and the possibilities for organising them more efficiently at the service of citizens. More than ever, this House of Democracy must be open to the outside world and fully accessible to our citizens, a house in which the diversity of opinions - a guarantee of sound parliamentary work - must be reflected, with mutual respect and listening. New initiatives such as the launch of an electronic platform for petitions, the sign language translation of Question Time in plenary or the modernisation of our identity and our communication are equally tangible evidence of this. This line of content needs to be continued. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against any form of discrimination, hatred or violence is a top priority for our country. For the first time, on the occasion of the International Day against Homophobia and Transphobia, on May 17, rainbow flags were hung on the facades of the House and the Senate, and the pedestrian crossing between the Palace of the Nation and the Royal Park was painted in the colours of the rainbow. The Federal Parliament has thus sent a clear message in the public space: there is no place in Belgium - or elsewhere! - for discrimination against LGBTQI+. Colleagues, parliaments must play their full role in European and international relations. The natural vocation of parliamentary diplomacy is to serve the best mutual knowledge, peace, freedom and fundamental rights. Colleagues, the past parliamentary year was not always easy. Our assembly has had to reinvent itself and face a steady pace of work. But we can be proud of our work. I would like to thank all of you for the constructive work we have been able to do together. We have been able to continue to do this work in the best possible conditions, thanks to the dedication and availability of House staff on a daily basis. Once again, I would like to warmly thank all the staff of the House – and all the services – for making it possible for our assembly to function properly during this particular period.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u29	Continuity of service and activity has been ensured at all times and at all times, still in the last few days. Our services play an essential role for the sake of Parliament's missions and democracy in our country! On the eve of this summer's recess, I should like to thank Mr registrar, the Deputy Registrars, the Director-General of the Quaesteurdiensten and all the staff of our Assembly. I would also like to thank the journalists and the press for reporting on our activities. Finally, thank you to the military commander and to the staff who are responsible for our security in and around the Palace of the Nation. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you and your families a well-deserved rest time: we all need it! I also wish the Prime Minister, the members of the government and their collaborators a bit of relaxation despite the difficult environment we face. Let us meet again in September with the full energy necessary to ensure the continuation of our work and to move forward in the fulfilment of the noble task entrusted to us by the citizen. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u30	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u31	Madam President, I would like to give an explanation of vote on this last vote. Because I read the word 'cooperation agreement' here. As has already been said, we shall approve it. It is a cooperation agreement between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the French Community, the German Community, the Joint Community Commission, the Walloon Region, the French Community Commission and I think we have had it. But I would have liked to have interviewed the Prime Minister today about the cooperation agreement within the majority. This question has been rejected, and I find that regrettable. You were just talking about the House of Democracy. Can I really express my hope, just before this last vote, that the government would not only turn to this House when it has easy answers, but that it would certainly also be able to hide itself and you, Minister, will certainly be my voice in the government to let that bell ring for a while at times of great difficulties and serious political problems behind the broad backs of the majority groups not to come here and explain it, and that this 'House of Democracy' would not be replaced by Twitter, Facebook or newspaper leaks. I would like to ask the government for that understanding and respect after the recess, because this year has been too lacking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u32	Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u33	Yes 97 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 33 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip123x.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this parliamentary session. I wish you an excellent rest. I will give you an appointment at the beginning of the year, or in committee for those who will have work on Thursday in two committees. For the rest, we will meet again in September to resume our activities with the positive energy needed to carry out our missions. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, September 23, 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 23 September at 2.15 p.m.
