ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 October 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 October 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u3	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let all of you vaccinate, that is the way to freedom, as you said about ten months ago, and we did almost all that well. We're ten months late now, and what turns out? With the realm of freedom, that's actually back to square one, or even if it's up to you. After all, you announced yesterday in the media the fourth wave and again put forward accompanying measures. The masks are back, the pass company is further rolled out and even promoted and, who knows, there's another lockdown. The promise of freedom through vaccination can thus gradually also be made on the great hopes of the broken promises. Minister, when will we finally be in that realm of freedom? It's been promised for far too long. Will you discuss the measures you mentioned yesterday in the media with your partners in the sub-governments? I can imagine that the Flemish Government has a slightly different opinion on this, given the degree of vaccination in Flanders. Since almost a year ago, I have also asked you three times whether you would oblige the caregivers to be vaccinated. The answer was negative; we would not follow the bad example of France, but a week later sounded exactly the opposite. So much for the value of the answers we are allowed to receive in this house today. Now we are even going to move up a gear and we will not only require vaccination, but also threaten those care workers who have not been vaccinated with sanctions and dismissal. Mr Minister, will you create a legal framework that will make it possible to fire unvaccinated staff in healthcare?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u4	Minister, I am here today on your birthday to give you a heartfelt voice in the fight against corona. Over the past few weeks, we have all been proud and satisfied, because we have been able to pick up on the threads of our social life thanks to the success of our vaccination campaign. At present, however, we see that the corona figures are heading in the wrong direction. Last Monday there were 6,500 new infections in our country and in one week there was a doubling of the number of hospitalizations. CD&V's worried. Meanwhile, from different angles, there is a demand to use the Covid Safe Ticket (CST), also in Flanders, as is already the case in Brussels and Wallonia. As far as we are concerned, the CST is an excellent means of continuing to enjoy our freedoms in a safe manner. Not only have you as a minister already asked the Flemish Government this question, but our Flemish mayors have already spoken in newspapers. For us it is clear: the use of the CST is not equal to a pass society. However, it is the way to continue to enjoy our freedoms in a safe, correct way. Right now, we're still in a federal phase. Minister Verlinden indicated that she would stick to the federal phase, while preparing for its abolition. The Consultative Committee which will meet next week will have to look into this. In the current situation there is therefore sufficient ground for CD&V to consider an extension of the federal phase. Has the federal government already formally contacted the Flemish colleagues in order to advocate a comprehensive application of the CST? And you will, Minister, and the Consultation Committee will extend the federal phase (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u5	Mr Secretary, the increase in corona figures is no surprise to anyone. We all knew that autumn would be accompanied by an increase in the number of infections. I therefore believe that we are faced with an important choice. Either we scare our citizens with ominous messages, or we look at management with new, fresh glasses. After a year and a half of coronapandemei we learned a lot of lessons. The vaccination rate is very high in many areas. Now we need to look at where we need to adjust, with a lot of attention to the human, mental aspect. The current testing and quarantine policy causes a lot of unrest and breakdown, including in key sectors such as care and education, while many patients tested positive are asymptomatic and actually do not suffer from the disease and protects vaccination against hospitalisation. The greatest increase in the number of infections is in our younger population; many first-line workers are in favour of allowing the virus to circulate among young people. So I have three questions for you. Firstly, on the basis of what criteria do you make the statements in the media that there is a fourth wave and that it will be firm? What is this communication based on and what do you want to achieve in particular? Secondly, what is the impact of those statements on maintaining the federal phase? Both Prime Minister and Minister Verlinden have often said that the government is preparing for the end and moving from crisis management to risk management. To whom she will give that task, moreover, it was never clear, the governors, the mayors, or the regions. How do you see that? How does the government see that? Thirdly, what about the criteria for the epidemic emergency? Until recently, it has been said that this has not been met. What influence do the increases have on the definition?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u6	Mr. Secretary, happy birthday! Minister, at dinner this afternoon with our Youca representatives, who are now sitting in the gallery, we were talking about the fourth wave, which you have been officially talking about since yesterday. They have the impression that the corona crisis is over and they don't come into contact with corona anymore. I live a few kilometers from Oudsbergen, where the harsh reality is that the corona pandemic is not over. Our activities are cancelled again, social contacts are restricted and the mouth masks are all back. Their feelings are also in stark contrast to those of the care sector, which is undermanned, who is exhausted and who is once again seeing the mood. There are more recordings every day. Then I am also concerned when I hear you say that the fourth wave is there and that the figures are rising. Firstly, you say that it will take until Christmas or the beginning of next year, before there is a legal framework for compulsory vaccination in the healthcare sector. How come it takes so long and in the meantime we can't speed it up to have more vaccinees in care? A second question. The federal phase ends in principle when the crisis is under control. Is it smart to talk about the end of the federal phase right now? Do we have the crisis under control? Thirdly, what can we do now, on the federal, regional and local level, to knock down the fourth wave, that rising curve, very quickly so that we do not end up in small or larger lockdowns?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, over the next few days we will see strong increases in the number of people infected by covid and, unfortunately, an increase in the number of people admitted to hospital. That's not unexpected, but the increase in contamination is strong. We know what we have to do to control this fourth wave. To begin with, we must all be vaccinated. Vaccines provide very good protection against the disease and hospitalisation. It is not perfect protection, we know that, but extremely good protection. We must ensure that enough people are vaccinated in all regions, municipalities and neighbourhoods, which is not the case everywhere today. We must also ensure that the pupils in our secondary schools are vaccinated massively. The fact that high school students are all vaccinated is a mobilization which must now be carried out everywhere. In the healthcare sector, it must be clear that doctors, nurses, physiotherapists are being vaccinated. We will put that self-evident duty into a law and that will take some time and consultation. After all, we are a country of consultation, with employers and trade unions, for example, and we are listening to their views. We are a country of advice. A prepared text is now ready and I hope to be able to come to the government and Parliament as soon as possible. There too, Mrs Creemers, advisory procedures will be followed, such as with the Council of State. However, the signal will be clear. Even with a transitional period, people working in care will eventually have a duty to be vaccinated, for their patients, for vulnerable residents of residential care centres, but also for themselves. I assume that next summer no one in care will be so careless, so careless as to not be vaccinated. We also know what to do ourselves, at a time when more and more people will be inside, including in cafés, restaurants and fitness rooms. Good air quality and ventilation must be ensured. That's essential, even in classrooms. I think that progress there is insufficient. We also know that mouth masks are important when one enters a closed room, with people who are not very well acquainted and where one gets fairly close, especially when one feels sick. The same applies to flu, by the way. Wear that mouth mask. It's just a matter of care, of courtesy to other people. If you feel sick, whether it's the flu or something else, you have to stay home. We must, indeed, continue to test. There's no point in throwing away the thermometer when the disease is there. There's no point in that. We must organize it properly, ensure that it is liveable in schools and ensure that it is liveable for the general practitioners. We are working out the necessary measures in this respect so that people who have to be tested do not have to go to the general practitioner all the time. The Covid Safe Ticket is also a good tool to be safe. It is not an instrument of freedom, it is an instrument of freedom. The Flemish Government does know that the federal government believes that this is an interesting instrument, which might be better deployed in more places. We are discussing with our Flemish colleagues, with our Walloon colleagues, with our Brussels colleagues, inter alia, whether we can end the federal phase at some point and what needs to be done. This is not an immediate issue, but we are talking about it with the governments of the Länder. The pandemic law is happy now. You know the procedure. Based on advice on the epidemiological situation, the pandemic law can be activated. That advice must be scientific advice. We receive such advice on an ongoing basis. On the basis of the next opinion, we will indeed once again ask ourselves whether the pandemic law should be activated and whether, on the basis of this pandemic law, we will be able to pursue strong policies with a solid legal basis. I don't think we should be afraid. We need to be confident. We know it's a matter of more vaccination and less virus. The two are important. It is not enough to say: you must be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u8	Minister, you have barely answered my questions. You also know that there is a shortage of people in care. By de facto imposing a ban on certain people in the care sector, I fear that we will only increase this problem. It is totally unacceptable for the Flemish interest to fire people who were described as the heroes of care a year ago. I was hoping you'd agree. Mr. Secretary, you must stop telling the people a root. You promised the people the realm of freedom. Every time that carrot goes further away. You're just gonna take away that freedom when it's convenient. You're not offering people any perspective. The common Fleming has had enough of that. The ordinary Fleming doesn't want a pass company, he doesn't want a Covid Safe Ticket to go to the toilet so to speak and he certainly doesn't want another lockdown. Mr. Secretary, you need to stop this panic-mongering on the basis of figures. The common Fleming wants his life back. The common Fleming... (microphone turns off)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u9	Minister, there is a sharp increase, including in hospitalizations. I hope that with good measures we can make the fourth wave as short as possible. We get a safe freedom by focusing on vaccination, vaccinating our young people and our care staff. Let us also use the CST in winter to continue enjoying the freedom in winter. Yes, CD&V is for a unit of command, for a federal phase, for a purpose: on the way to a secure freedom that is as coronasafe as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u10	Minister, you have not answered all my questions, but thank you. Colleagues are talking about compulsory vaccination and the extension of the Covid Safe Ticket. Some also want the decision to depend on the expert advice. Of course, that advice is important, but the question is which experts. Who's in there? Is attention also paid to the mental well-being of our young people? Is there any insight into what it means to people to be quarantined for ten days? Once again, we're going to a winter of quarantine. It seems that we are placing our political responsibility on the experts. The experts are providing advice. That is and must be the case, but then there is something like a political decision: where are we going and what motivating message do we want to give to the people? I do not think that we are going the right way at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u11	Minister, I can only welcome the fact that there is as much consultation as possible on compulsory vaccination for the care sector and the law on this in the hope that there will be as much support as possible. I call on all colleagues not to unnecessarily delay the vote when the law will prevail. I share your assessment of the federal phase, Minister: in cooperation with all the partners, the Länder, the governors, the mayors, we must look at how we will deal with the problem as closely as possible. Of course, I also share your call to the people to be vaccinated as much as possible, but in Oudsbergen, at the moment, 93 percent of the population has been vaccinated and yet there is a danger that things will go wrong. Your appeal is therefore double: you are calling for vaccination, but we still need to be careful. It is not just by the government that we will get our freedom back, Mr Creyelman. We all do this together, individually and collectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u12	Madam President, Minister, as you know, things have been moving in the workplace over the last few weeks. The displeasure is really tangible. This week there are strikes at Agfa Gevaert, Arcelor, Lonza, BASF, Baxter, Takeda and last week at Lidl. Mr. Secretary, don't worry. There will be many more actions in the next few weeks. In fact, we warned you about this six months ago during the Ipa negotiations. This morning, one of Aperam's guys told me he didn't get it anymore. He got his energy bill that morning. She went from 100 euros to 240 euros per month. He was wondering how. The same thing actually happens at the pump. He noticed that people went to work to pay for their gas, to get to work. That is the reality. The euros are also ticked at the cash register in the shop. Life's gonna be a lot more expensive. People are really starting to feel their purchasing power. Mr. Secretary, where's the respect? People aren't stupid. They are now really seeing what they are worth in relation to capital. They were good enough to continue working in the frontline during the Corona epidemic. They made the profits for employers. They made sure that there were mega-profits in the employers' bank accounts. For example, BASF was ready to pay 2.7 billion euros to shareholders. Now that it's time to better reward the working class and give butter to the fish, the workers get a big njet. Yesterday we heard through your party that it supports the workers in their demands. However, there is a very small problem. It's your royal decision that put them in that situation. That is why I have the following simple question. Will you be consistent and withdraw your royal decision on the wage freeze?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u13	Madam President, Mr Colebunders, thank you for your question. As you know, sectoral negotiations are still under way in most sectors. Some sectors already have an agreement, such as the food industry, fuel trade, transport and logistics, taxi and relocation sectors. These are measures relating to purchasing power, but also to quality of work, end-of-life measures, training, mobility and so on. We also see agreements being reached on the corona premium. In some sectors it is granted sectorally, while in others it lays down criteria for allocation at enterprise level. In some sectors consultation is more difficult, as in the chemicals sector, but this is not exceptional. The negotiations are also about more than wage increases, and, as you know, the sector has recently been affected by serious incidents such as 3M. The trade unions therefore demand measures for the well-being of workers and require more extensive medical supervision. These legitimate demands seem to be rejected by employers for the time being. However, I have heard that there is a willingness to negotiate further. A new meeting is scheduled for next week. The social mediators of my administration facilitate this sectoral consultation and are also available if reconciliation is requested. As for ArcelorMittal Gent-Zelzate, there is normally a conciliation meeting tomorrow. I am very pleased with the attention paid to training and other qualitative aspects of the work. As you know, I am committed to this, including the individual right of all workers to five days' training. Finally, I will shortly come up with a plan for well-being at work, and I have no doubt that this will facilitate the sectoral negotiations in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u14	Minister, you think it is normal that there are already employers, you have just mentioned the chemical sector, in which the negotiations have already begun, although they do not even reach 0.4%. What did you do during these Ipa negotiations? You put the employers in a lazy seat. They feel strengthened by a government that always takes their side. Let me be clear, Minister, that 0.4% is already the minimum. That's true for a lot of employees. For you, this is the maximum. And let us be honest, many sectors, such as the cleaning sector and the service cheque sector, do not even touch that 0.4%. I wonder what you have to tell these people. There is only one message, Minister, to withdraw that 1996 law, otherwise you will not know what to expect for the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u15	Mr Minister, you have communicated a strong investment budget: 365 million from the European budget and 250 million from the federal budget in one shot by 2024. However, at the same time, we learn that with the Vivaldi government, you have decided to proceed with a de-financing which you obviously did not brag about. The figures highlighted by various researchers show savings for rail allocations of EUR 255 million by 2028, EUR 420 million by 2032, and much more for the future. These budget cuts - you will all have understood quickly by doing the calculation - exceed in the medium term the refinancing you have announced. However, the urgency and magnitude of the climate challenge are imperative for us, and rail should therefore be a priority, not only in speeches but also in actions. A major priority for climate, but also socio-economic reasons, only think for a moment of the weight of daily traffic. Yesterday the government finalized its official notifications, its budget notifications and the transposition of the government agreement announced a week ago. It is now time, Minister, to tell us exactly what is happening. When you were a Member of Parliament, you often argued for transparency. My question is therefore very clear: what savings do you impose on rail, SNCB and Infrabel? The time has come for transparency and truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u16	Mrs Fonck, with this government, SNCB and Infrabel are no longer fiscal adjustment variables but levers for the mobility of the future, for the climate and jobs of tomorrow. The past is 210 million euros of structural savings decided by the Di Rupo government of which you were a member; 2 billion euros of savings decided in 2014 by the MR/N-VA government and all their consequences for workers and the network that has not been sufficiently maintained or developed in recent years. I've done the accounts of this government. Since the beginning of the legislature, in addition to the ordinary allocation, an additional EUR 1,510 billion will already be injected into the Belgian rail at my initiative by 2024: - The financing of the Plan Boost which allows to intervene where it is most urgent on the network. - European resources (EUR 365 million) for the modernisation, digitalisation and strengthening of the network. - The 250 million euros of the last budget conclave to strengthen the accessibility of the stations and to finance our ambitions in terms of modal shift of goods. - Compensation for SNCB related to the health crisis and loss of revenue. - Funding for the rehabilitation of the network following the floods. - New operational resources for our two railway companies and in support of night trains (€812 million for SNCB and €692 million for Infrabel). Is that useful? Certainly! Is that enough? Certainly not! Many unmet needs and useful investments are to be met. Is it over? Of course not? I've only been here for a year and I still have a lot of plans. The train threatened to derail, Mrs. Fonck. We put it back on track. There's still work, but we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u17	Minister, do you know what MP Gilkinet would have said to you? He would have said to you, "Mr. Minister, what you're saying here is smoke!" And Congressman Gilkinet would have been right because you take back what you give to each other with one hand. In fact, you highlight what you're giving. Not a word here about savings! Yet these savings are clearly imposed on rail, not in one shot as for investment but in a structural way. It's obviously a de-financing. Like you, I can deplore the de-financing of the past few years. But is this your only satisfaction and justification? I'm interested in looking to the future. What interests me, for a government that so-called is climate, with so-called strong climate ambitions, is that there is an investment that is not accompanied by rail de-financing. Now that's what you're doing! They are far away your two trains per hour at each station! (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u18	Minister, hundreds of millions of euros extra for the budget could have been on the negotiating table last week. However, this has not happened, because a number of large shareholders of Belgian listed companies have managed to avoid as much as EUR 7 billion in taxes over the last 20 years. I have repeated many times that each part of it is nothing too much. That should be at the heart of our tax system. However, some shareholders manage to avoid that 30% tax on dividends year after year. This will again feed on much frustration and anger among all those citizens and businesses who pay their share, often at rates that are a lot higher than 30%. They pay too much taxes because some people do not want to contribute at all. That's unacceptable. Those cheats have to get out. We have to get the money where it is. It is precisely for this reason that this government has agreed that we will step up the fight against tax fraud considerably. By the end of the legislative term, we will have to knock as much as EUR 1 billion more out of the pockets of these big tax fraudsters. Some people in the opposition like to make fun of that. What they do is laugh with all those citizens who pay their taxes nicely. Is our legislation strict enough to prevent that kind of stock construction? Are we doing enough checks? Do banks and other financial intermediaries through which these structures are set up assume sufficient responsibility to avoid fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u19	Minister, three years ago, on 18 October 2018, the CumEx-Files 1.0 came out, representing a value of 55 billion in eleven countries. Now, exactly three years later, we are talking about 140 billion in nine countries. As Mr Vandenbroucke said, this gives rise to displeasure and sadness. Belgium would have lost 300 million a year in tax revenues. When you hear these figures, you have the feeling of constantly chasing the facts. Still, I don't want to just cry with the wolves in the woods. First of all, I would like to say that things are happening and have happened in the last five years. Specific to this problem, the tax authorities have been able to stop nearly EUR 800 million of unduly claimed withholding tax. The court is now reaching a conclusion in some court cases to bring a number of people to justice. So there's not nothing happening. If the tax authorities and the public prosecutor are doing a good job, that may also be said. It is also important for citizens to know that things are happening. The claim that nothing happens is populist. However, the problem remains immensely large. The fight against tax fraud is continuing. Many solutions are international, but we can still do things at national level. The figures in today's research are alarming. Minister, your administration has disputed the researchers' figures. How does your administration view the size of the problem? What impact did the legislation unanimously adopted by the Court in 2019 have on this issue, as identified in 2018? How do you feel about the revelations that have come to light this morning? In what way do you want to deal with this? Are you considering new measures, new resources, legal initiatives or an approach at international level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u20	Colleagues Donné and Vandenbroucke, the articles published this morning in De Tijd and L'Echo show once again that the fight against tax fraud must be an absolute spearhead, not only of the entire government but also of the entire Parliament. After all, our citizens no longer accept this fraud, and it is more than right that they should no longer do so. The possible fraud involving exemption or recovery of withholding tax on dividends has, of course, been in the sight of the fraud inspectors and the fraud detectors for some time now. My administration detected this construction a few years ago and it also proposed a legislative amendment at that time. That was in 2018. At that time, it also started with a decisive control. However, its detection remains a real challenge, precisely because of the international dimension of possible fraud. These are constructions which, of course, use international rules. These international rules are contained in our double taxation treaties and our exemption rules for withholding tax. Tackling this particular fraud is therefore quite a challenge. It is a challenge that we must not go out of our way. There are currently a number of court cases in New York, where both legal and natural persons have been detected and charged. A specialised law firm has been deployed to defend the interests of our Belgian State, precisely because of the international nature of this file. As you know, we are also stepping up the fight against fraud in our country. We invest in that too. Moreover, the recent budget provides for the recruitment of additional fraud detectors. The selection procedures for the recruitment of inspectors with experience in international taxation will be launched tomorrow. So we're playing the ball for a short time. I also said during last week's budget debate that we are currently working on a second action plan. That's specifically aimed at international constructions. On Monday the proposals were explained for the first time by the members of the College for the fight against tax and social fraud. A project was also submitted to improve the procedure for the refund of the withholding tax. So that is still before us for discussion. In our first action plan, we attached a great deal of importance to the cooperation between tax authorities, the police and the courts, especially in the case of serious tax fraud. It is now up to the court to determine the priorities for this policy of prosecution, but these international fraud cases are certainly eligible for this. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make it clear that the detection of tax evasion on withholding tax has been a priority in recent years and will continue in the coming years. You can continue to count on my commitment and that of my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u21	Minister, I would like to hear you announce a second action plan against tax fraud, because that will also be necessary. The system is always the same, while the vast majority of people in this country pay taxes neatly, some are busy setting up all kinds of complicated constructions, from the Brussels Stock Exchange to Panama, in order not to have to contribute anything. Minister, you have the full support of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to turn this action plan into reality. Mr Donné, I welcome the support of the N-VA. I am very pleased with your discourse today, because that sounds quite different from that of the past year, since you voted against every anti-fraud measure taken by this government. I therefore welcome the fact that, together with the opposition, we will implement this government's action plan against fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u22	Minister, I will confine myself to replying to your reply and not to Mr Vandenbroucke's statements, which will be discussed later. You will have a partner with us when it comes to combating fraud. If you come up with intelligent measures that do not drag the bona fide companies along, you will certainly have our support. I would like to talk not only about the fraudsters but also about the citizens who pay their taxes correctly. They must also feel that this injustice is being addressed. If these fiscal plans are simply a budget closure, with action plans that we are talking about here, the public will not notice very much about them. That is why I would like to make two proposals. Firstly, ensure regular reporting, not only here in Parliament but also directly to the citizen, on the evolution of revenue in the fight against tax fraud. Give the citizen what that battle brings, all of which brings in the tax authorities and the public. That'll involve them in that whole fight. Secondly, the most important proposal is to return the proceeds of the fight against fraud in the form of a tax reduction for those who work, save and undertake. That's tax justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u23	Madam President, Madam Minister, in recent years bpost has been facing a serious development, with an average drop in mail from 5 to 10 per cent and a 56% increase in parcel delivery. The confinement of the last few months has further strengthened this situation. I heard you had the idea of asking for a supplement for packages delivered in 24 hours. I immediately thought about my neighbor Raymonde, who, every day or every week, receives a number of parcels delivered by bpost, and I wondered what she was going to have to pay in addition. It is clear that bpost is facing this kind of situation, but it is also obliged to respect certain ecological imperatives. With the number of packages to be delivered, traffic is more important. The government agreement also states that investment in environmental objectives within the postal sector is necessary. It has been written, and I think we all agree on that. On the other hand, there is also a need to protect the consumer. Indeed, with the rise in energy prices, households are now subject to numerous increases. You also mentioned the application of a system whereby the last kilometres are more environmentally friendly, in particular through the creation of ecozones. Finally, you have expressed the desire to harmonise the legal framework with regard to the social and environmental conditions of the sector. Minister, have all these elements led to consultation with the sector? Has this consultation been agreed within the government? Do you have any idea the price of this possible supplement? What about the legal framework for this harmonisation of social and environmental conditions in the postal sector? If you charge a supplement for people who go through bpost, what about the other actors? bpost is nevertheless in a difficult competitive sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u24	Madam Secretary, about a year ago we were here too. That is not a coincidence, because it is again the period of the year in which the first books of the saint fall into the bus and we are beginning to look forward to the holidays, which we hope will be able to spend this year with the whole family. That is a nice period for us, but for the postman also a very busy period. From Black Friday to the end of the year, bpost employees put down huge extra performance to deliver all packages in time. Even now that we can shop physically again, the packet volumes remain high: bpost currently processes an average of 450,000 to 500,000 packages per day and in the period from December it is expected that even a multiple of them will occur. That's a huge volume that needs to be processed. Given the supply problems on international markets, it will be anything but easy to deliver each package in time. During that period, the sender will pay an additional allowance, which will charge bpost to coordinate the large influx of packages, but the sender expects these more expensive packages to be delivered on time. Bpost is therefore facing quite a challenge, hence a few questions. What assessment does bpost make of the expected volumes this autumn? Do you have exact figures of that? Is bpost better prepared this year than last year? What measures are still being taken to ensure that everything goes smoothly and deliver the packages in good time? How can we ensure that our local traders can surf the e-commerce wave?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u25	Mr Burton, I can assure you that I have no intention of intervening in the price of the package market. It's a misunderstanding. I had a discussion at an IBPT workshop on the sustainability of e-commerce. E-commerce is an important topic for which we have lost a lot of activity in our country. Every effort must therefore be made to help this sector and to help our traders. There is a problem of not only social but also ecological sustainability. There are indeed possibilities in the postal law to introduce criteria to which the whole sector – we are not just talking about bpost – will have to comply. It is up to the legislator to introduce certain social and economic criteria. We are thinking with the IBPT and the sector about the directions to be taken. In an interview, I said that it would be normal for the social and ecological cost of e-commerce – which is currently outsourced – to be internalised in prices and therefore that there is a difference for ultra-fast deliveries and normal deliveries. I said that normal deliveries can be cheaper than ultra-fast deliveries. In the newspapers, we overturned the message and I contest the purpose of this interview. There will be no intervention in the prices. It will be up to the market to organise itself and choose the business model that will be appropriate by internalising social and environmental costs. I hope that I have been able to clarify this issue, which is extremely important. Within the government, we find that this is something we need to think about. There is a lot of unfair competition in this sector. We must keep social and ecological standards, for example by regulating the last mile with systems like Ecozone, which are followed not only by bpost but also by many other actors in the sector. We will not undertake anything without consultation within the government and with the sector and the IBPT. I hope this reassures you and corrects the false information you have been able to read in some media. Mrs Verhaert, your question of how bpost prepares itself is very relevant as we return to the end of the year. You yourself gave the figures of the expected volume increases in the parcel sector. I have received a number of detailed measures from Bpost, which I would like to share with you. Bpost will invest in additional sorting capacity with two additional machines in Ghent and Charleroi. It will increase investment in other sorting centres and create extra space to process parcels in more than 50 distribution offices. Furthermore, the company also invests in rolling stock and trucks with a higher loading capacity by the end of the year and has ordered 15,000 containers, 2,000 mobile devices or scanners before the end of the year, as well as additional vehicles. As far as the organization is concerned, the situation will be monitored daily in such a way that one can play and coordinate very quickly on the ball. They will invest in extra vending machines, which is in line with my first question. Customers will be made more aware of the possible delivery preferences, which they can express. Finally, as regards staff, it has already been decided to employ 700 employees of support services in operational services (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u26	Thank you, Madam Minister. So I'm going to be able to reassure my neighbor! For you and for us, bpost must be integrated into economic, environmental and social sustainability. The company must continue to invest in e-commerce and logistics, with many challenges. I thank you for taking into account this consultation with the threefold objective: economic, environmental and social.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u27	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. I am glad to hear that Bpost has taken a number of measures and is making investments, because there is nothing more annoying than finding a package on the doorstep after 6 December or having to deliver a package after Christmas. I am pleased to hear that investments are being made this year to take the necessary precautions. It should also be ensured that the impact on the environment is as low as possible. I am glad to hear that this is not a general price increase. We need to think about concepts, bearing in mind the importance of consumers, which should certainly not be put at a disadvantage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u28	Minister, Minister, Secretary of State, I wanted first of all to pay tribute to the courage of all the victims of rape who dared to leave their silence today, a silence that has been eating them so far. Their testimonies are literally cold behind their backs, but what is even more terrifying is that these systemic violence against women and girls is far beyond the only area of the Ixelles cemetery, since it affects the entire country. To answer this question, I mean the measures that are being mobilised by your Government, a pilot project to objectiveize the black figure of sexual assaults, the generalization of sexual violence centres, or your proposal to reform the Criminal Code. In doing so, don't you feel like you're doing things backwards to know how to act only downstream of the violence, that is, when the harm is already done, not upstream. It is all the more surprising that the Istanbul Convention, which serves as a guideline for your government in this fight, insists on the protection of victims, on the repression of perpetrators but also on the prevention and coordination of policies, two aspects that are totally absent from your strategy so far. What measures will you put in place to prevent such violence? Is this point discussed in the Interministerial Conference on Women's Rights? What is the status of the development of the new national action plan to combat gender-based violence? Where are we in the training of magistrates, police officers or doctors? When will the seven new sexual abuse centres open? How will you actually support existing centres that are already saturated, as well as sexual offender care centres, to minimize recidivism? Finally, are you going to incorporate the gender dimension into your proposal to reform the Sexual Criminal Code as required by the Gender Mainstreaming Act, since almost 90% of victims of sexual violence are women?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u29	Madam President, Minister, last week there were 1,300 young people on the streets in Ixelles because they no longer accept that they can't live in a normal way as a younger person in our society, that they're afraid to go out on the streets, that they're afraid to go out on a café, that they're afraid to go out after a long period of corona. This is unbelievable. They're very angry. They want concrete measures to be taken. After all, it is not normal that it took so long. The facts were known. A lot of facts have been known for years, for example about cafes where sexual assaults happen. Those facts are known and yet nothing has happened. There are many beautiful intentions and explanations, but how is it possible that half of the complaints will be dismissed until today? You are announcing new care centres, but even today, the existing care centre in Brussels is no longer able to follow. It's full. There are insufficient staff and resources. Will you then respond to the young people's demand to open an additional care centre in Ixelles, close to the students' environment? When will your long-awaited programme be put into practice or will it remain on the desks? What budgets are in favour of this? That is, of course, crucial. This week in the committee around the penal code, I heard from all the speakers from civil society that there are not enough resources to do the business they want to do. There will therefore have to be means against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u30	Madam President, Minister, Minister, Secretary of State, drinking a glass of wine at the cafe today can cause our daughters a lifetime of trauma. A rape drug is a very cynical drug, it leaves no traces, either in the blood, or in memory, only bruising, bruising on the semi-undressed body. We try to make our daughters resilient and assertive with regard to sexual harassment, but making someone defenseless is of unseen cowardice. It takes away every opportunity from the victim to show rejection. It also contributes to victim blaming, because maybe it was that glass too much. That also explains the underreporting for a piece. However, a zero tolerance policy is required. You've all understood the sense of urgency, you've immediately sat down together. We all know that the fight against sexual violence is an absolute priority of this government, but more is needed. 1,300 young people and women have cried out their impotence in the streets of Ixelle. Also on social media we see chats appearing from girls who indicate in whatever cafes this phenomenon occurs. It does take a lot more than that. Police, parquet and shelter need to be more united to nip this phenomenon in the bud. There are indeed the care centres after sexual violence, which are being rolled out. That's a very good thing. There is also the new penal code on sexual acts, which is being discussed. Today, however, there is a need for low-threshold and prevention. We need very low-threshold digital notification points. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u31	Madam Secretary of State, Minister, Ministers, the evidence of sexual assault in two bars in Ixelles is icy. First of all, I will share my solidarity with the victims. Last week, groups of students, women and their allies were in the streets of Ixelles to shout their anger and expectations. They're meeting again tonight. They want to be taken seriously. They want to be raw. They want to be safe. These testimonies are very serious and we must of course react to them in the light of their gravity. Let us not be mistaken about debate! Squeeze your bar is not an isolated fact. It's the submerged part of a huge iceberg. We live in a violent society against women. It is women who bear the burden of this violence on a daily basis. It is not acceptable for women from an early age to learn that their safety depends on their caution. It is not acceptable for them to deploy protective and avoidance strategies to feel safe. So, yes! There is a problem of sexual violence in Ixelles and also in Charleroi and also in Antwerp... everywhere in Belgium and elsewhere! Sexual violence is in bars, but also in our workplaces, in our homes. They are everywhere, they are systemic, they are part of this continuum of gender-based violence, from sexist remarks to femicide, to socio-economic inequalities. Madam Secretary of State, with your colleagues, since you arrived, you have taken these questions in arms. Yesterday, you held an emergency meeting at three. Can you give further details of the initiatives you will take in the short, medium and long term to prevent and contain this scourge and to improve the care of victims? The model of sexual violence centres has been proven. Have you contacted the Brussels office following the testimony? What are the echoes of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u32	Madam Chair, Minister, Secretary of State, Minister, we are here in the House of Representatives and I am asking you as a Member of Parliament, as well as as as an ixelloise and as a mother. We were all terrified by hearing the testimonies broadcast on social networks, hearing the demonstration. What is happening is unacceptable. Minister, I know that the fight against sexual violence, the fight against aggression, is a priority of the government. I know you're continuing and you're going to expand the establishment of sexual violence centres. You have initiated the reform of the Sexual Penal Code to focus on the issue of consent and to focus on cases where the person does not respond, either because he or she is drugged or because he or she is in a state of Sideration. That's essential! Nevertheless, these demonstrations, these testimonies show that there is still a problem. It is understood that there are 17 complaints, some of which have been closed without further action, and that other complaints have been closed without further action. Can you give us any information about this? Do you confirm that these complaints have been closed without further action? If so, why? The Public Prosecutor's Office is free to determine its policy of criminal prosecution. What is the situation in this regard? Is the prosecution of rape and sexual assault a priority for the prosecution? It's about security for all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u33	Madam President, Minister, Madam Secretary of State, after the hashtags "balancetonporc", "balancetonfolklore", it is now "balancetonbar" that goes around social networks. The recent sexual assaults of young women who have been drugged without their knowledge in the bars of the Ixelles Cemetery district are gravism but they are only the visible face of the iceberg. From scandal to scandal, many testimonies flow. Today, languages are untied. It is a real anger that is expressed everywhere on the streets, on the Internet to denounce the insecurity faced by young girls and women. In reality, victims feel abandoned; they no longer have confidence in justice. We ask them to file a complaint, but it is estimated that 70 per cent of these complaints would be dismissed by the public prosecutor's office. We must put an end to this impunity! The perpetrators of such offences must be held accountable before the courts. Minister, we are tired of questioning Mrs Schiltz, Mrs Verlinden and yourself in turn. You met yesterday in an emergency. Can you tell us what concrete measures you have taken to protect the victims? What are you proposing in practice to improve their support so that they can lodge complaints? If the fight against sexual violence is indeed one of the government's priorities, what will you implement to avoid rankings without follow-up? What are the guidelines given to prosecutors in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u34	Dear colleagues, like you, I am appalled by the testimonies of recent weeks on sexual violence in Ixelles and Brussels. The fact that so many of us are reacting with indignation proves that we are all united, because these acts are unacceptable. You will understand that I cannot comment on the investigation that the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office is carrying out for the time being. I can, however, assure you that this same prosecutor will do everything to break the truth in this case,- he has confirmed it to me. From the beginning of this legislature, our government has made the fight against sexual violence a priority. All too often, girls and women in our country are victims of such violence. It is a fight that we are fighting on all fronts and we know very well where the problems lie: too many obstacles for victims before they file a complaint, too few convictions and too few penalties. We are tackling these problems one by one, in collaboration with my colleague Verlinden and my colleague Schlitz. First and foremost, more reports must be made, because this is still too little happening in our country. There we make the difference with the famous Care Centers after Sexual Violence (ZSG). In these centres, the threshold for making a declaration is seriously reduced. Victims can report there in the best conditions, in the right environment and with professional guidance. We also need to make those care centres more widely known to a wider public. I was a guest recently at the Hogeschool PXL in Hasselt. Many girls showed interest in the operation of these care centers. A lady suggested that I also explain in high school, especially with girls, the importance of those care centers. The figures show that due to these care centres the willingness to make a declaration is increasing by as much as 70%. Since January 2021, the 3 health centres together received an average of 112 victims per month: 44 in Brussels, 40 in Ghent and 28 in Liège. On 10 November we open the doors of a new care centre in Antwerp. Charleroi will follow at the end of November. Our ambition is to have a ZSG in every province of our country. Second objective: more prosecution. The problem of evidence arises far too often. It is the word of one against the other; the word of the victim against the word of the suspect. We must and can do better in this area; and we are doing better. A Code 37 project, successfully carried out in Antwerp, will be implemented at national level, starting with Brussels. This project is a new investigation strategy that allows for more and better material evidence through cutting-edge trace research. I have freed more than 600,000 euros of the necessary resources for this purpose. We will hire five additional people to support this measure. Most importantly, this approach leads to a doubling of the number of convictions. That is what we have seen in Antwerp. Meanwhile, nearly 2,000 magistrates have been trained. Thirdly, stricter penalties. Then I come to the draft on sexual criminal law that is being dealt with here in Parliament in the Committee on Justice. There are hearings in progress. I hope to be able to begin discussions soon. Mrs Van Hoof, an important new element in that draft is that we explicitly provide that spiking, adding so-called defenseless substances to drink, will be an aggravating circumstance, not only in the case of rape, but also in any form of sexual integrity degradation. That will be new in the Criminal Code. The correctional sentence could go up to 15 years. Once punished, the convict must also receive proper guidance so that he does not relapse in his behaviour. For this there are centres for the treatment of sexual offenders. We are in full agreement with the Länder to update, improve and strengthen the cooperation agreements that date back to the year 2000, with a view to a tailor-made approach for the offenders. Ladies and gentlemen, justice is an important element, but, Mrs Rohonyi, it is not the only answer to these terrible phenomena. Individuals must be held accountable for inappropriate behaviour. Saying stop and not just laughing at it or minimizing things, to allow our young people to live more freely and in greater safety and not to have to worry about predators...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what happened in Ixelles is touching me deeply, especially since such facts do not only happen in Ixelles. Just when young people are once again able to enjoy their freedom fully, they live in fear of going out. I sympathize with them. I therefore sincerely hope that the boys and girls who are the victims of this kind of fact will not lose their vitality and insecurity. In any case, I will do everything I can, together with my colleagues, to ensure and contribute to this. Mrs Van Hoof, as you know, the fight against sexual violence is a priority in police and Home Affairs policy. What happened in Ixelles, but what is also happening outside the borders of Ixelles, shows that we still have a very important and long way to go. The facts are currently being investigated by the local police zone Brussels Capital of Ixelles under the leadership of the Brussels parquet. In any case, I appreciate that the investigation was initiated immediately. The prosecutor confirms that he considers the investigation to be very serious and priority, and that goes without saying. However, the content is covered by the secret of the investigation, so I cannot go into that at the moment. As my colleague, Mr Van Quickenborne, has just explained, discussions took place yesterday with colleagues from Justice and Equal Opportunities to develop a joint approach. It is, as some speakers have said, an effective chain approach, not the homework of one policy domain. In any case, from the Home Office, I would like to contribute to a better phenomenon analysis. To this end, we must use all available channels. In addition to the police and the Justice Department, many non-profit organisations and prevention services are involved and contribute. Mrs Rohonyi, that is very important, also in the context of prevention, because the victim must be put first. For some victims, it feels more familiar if they do not have to contact the police immediately, but if they can go to another environment. It is therefore our task to support and assist all those non-profit organisations and organisations working on this theme in the services they provide to victims. The problem is far greater than what police statistics tell us because many victims do not report. I would like to make it as simple as possible to file a complaint and thus lower the threshold for victims to report, which improves statistics, primarily for the protection of victims, not just for statistics. More declarations will give us more information and better and more accurate work in prevention and repression. We are currently considering the possibility of an online return. The online declaration brings with it some challenges regarding care for the victims, which we must take into account. In addition, the reception and assistance of victims is a priority. In police training, therefore, we need to pay additional and further attention to moral facts, not only from a repressive point of view, but also from a preventive point of view, so that policemen can guide young girls and boys from their police duties in this phenomenon. In any case, the aim is to be able to train more specialised sex inspectors so that they can be active in the various police teams. From the IMC Women's Rights in which the Communities are represented, which is very important for prevention purposes, we will also be working on this prevention in the future and, to that end, sensitising action towards local authorities. Their prevention services and social services also have an important role to play. If the federal government supports them, the sensitising nature of this phenomenon can also be further enhanced. We've already talked about the Care Centers after Sexual Violence. I've already visited some of their activities. It is phenomenal what pioneering work they are doing, not only in terms of accompaniment to the administrative formalities that victims must undergo, but above all in terms of psychosocial counselling in a context outside the police department and outside normal structures. Victims can really be mentored there in the most human way. Hence the clear choice of the federal government to use it. It is an open door when I say that fighting sexual violence requires an integrated and ambitious approach. We will do our utmost to further support the fight against sexual violence and to stop sexual violence. Streets, parks and cafes are places where everyone has to have fun and where everyone should be able to go uninhibited. [[micro is being deactivated]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the testimony I have been able to read over the last few days is cold in the back. The many testimonies of victims of sexual violence are terrible. I salute all the victims for the courage they have shown to tell their story. They also reveal the extent of sexual violence and its structural dimension in our society. Victims of sexual violence still have too few complaints: they would be only one in ten to go to the police. This black figure is very worrying. It is essential that all victims be heard and cared for by the police and judicial authorities. You have just heard my colleagues Verlinden and Van Quickenborne. Our three Cabinets work closely together within the framework of the National Action Plan on Gender-based Violence and, of course, with the Länder which have crucial powers in areas such as prevention. The completion of this plan is in a final phase. There is indeed a budget that was allocated in the recent budget conclave for the implementation of this plan at the federal level. The Centres for the Care of Victims of Sexual Violence (CPVS) play a central role. The victims receive medical and psychological support. Police officers are also present and, through their training, allow victims to file more complaints. With regard to the specific case of the Ixelles Cemetery district, the SCVS confirms to me that it received at least three victims of the Ixelles Cemetery in October and others in June and July. The SCVS has also received dozens of calls from people who have been sexually assaulted at the Ixelles cemetery in recent months. Our country has three health centers. Next month there will be two more, in Leuven and in Charleroi. We are going for a national roll-out of this model: by the end of the legislature there will be ten throughout the country. I also want to work towards a better anchoring of Sexual Violence Care Centres (SVPCs) at the local level and, in particular, in student settings. It is known that the majority of victims who pass through a SCVI are between the ages of 18 and 25, which corresponds to the student population. During the deployment of the new centres, I will pay particular attention to the good cooperation between student circles, academia and the SVOCs. I am currently studying the possibility of setting up a pilot project in this area. As far as the local context is concerned, I would also like to inform you that I will meet just after this session the mayor of Ixelles, Christos Doulkeridis, in order to share our information and discuss other avenues. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the ambitious response of certain university authorities and student circles that have decided not to take this issue lightly. Indeed, in recent months, as you pointed out, other students have denounced phenomena of sexual violence on campuses. In response, new charters have been put in place and some victim support schemes have been developed on some university campuses. It's fundamental. I am convinced that we must combat sexual violence by involving all the actors of society in their rightful place: the citizens who will still be returning to the streets tonight, the civil society with a great deal of expertise in this area, and we, the political authorities who at all levels will have to take all these elements into account in different action plans and in all our policies. I commit myself here before you to make every effort to ensure that everyone leads the life he or she wishes without being afraid when he or she goes out, without asking himself or herself how he or she will return home and by what way to avoid being assaulted. This is the project that I am pursuing and to which I commit myself today before you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u37	Madam Secretary of State, Minister, Minister, I sincerely thank you for all the initiatives you are putting in place to ensure that the victims regain confidence in our justice, in our police, and thus go to file a complaint. I also thank you for reminding you that repression is not the only answer. There is also a need to change attitudes and work on prevention, although, in my view, this is still lacking in concrete terms. It's urgent, though. We're tired today of having to go out with this fear constantly in our stomach. We are tired of having to live in this culture of rape where the victim's words are constantly being questioned. Mr Minister, what is the point of increasing penalties if justice does not have the means to enforce them, but also if one in five men still thinks that a woman likes to be forced? The zero risk, of course, will never exist, unfortunately. But you must act, all of you. We must do so, too, by your side, so that this risk is no longer normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u38	Madam President, I would like to begin by congratulating the young people who have come on the streets. Thanks to them, the Ministers responsible have finally consulted on the measures to be taken. Despite the fact that we have been debating here for a year and have adopted a resolution on violence against women, no progress has yet been made. The fact that the young people are on the streets means that our demand for measures is raised here again. Secondly, it is with the declarations as with the story of the chicken or the egg. A woman once complained to me that nothing ever came out of a complaint. Then, of course, the step to press charges is too incriminating. Victims no longer even turn to the police because they assume that nothing is being done about their complaint. They must regain the belief that they are taken seriously. I hope your measures are a step forward. Tonight, young people are going back on the streets to demand concrete measures for their problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u39	We can clearly see that the government is taking the approach to sexual violence very seriously and not since today; it has been doing so for a long time with the roll-out of all kinds of measures on the ground, in order to demonstrate the initiatives on care centres following sexual violence. However, we must not only put out the fire but also place smoke detectors. It is not only repression and persecution that are important but, above all, prevention. We need to prevent crimes involving a rape drug. That's not easy, I admit it. That is why I would like to hear that measures are being announced here. ZSGs will be established before the end of the legislative term, but measures must also be taken immediately. As the Minister said, the digital platform to report online is very important, just like the training of sex inspectors, so that the right questions are asked in the interview, because we can (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u40	Minister, Minister, Secretary of State, I would like to thank you for your answers. They highlight the importance of placing the fight against sexual violence as a cross-cutting priority of the Government. We can see, by hearing all three of you, how everything gets stuck. It is also very important to hear from you, in particular, about the National Plan of Action to Combat Violence; and to know that you are working with the federated entities, which are also responsible, especially for prevention. On the other hand, the opening next month of the two SCVs in charge shows that you are not working on these issues only in the urgency and depending on the current situation, but in a structural way, and I also thank you. I would also like to address my colleagues in the House, because if the answers put in place by the government are important, they will not suffice. The security of half of the population rests not on a few people in the Executive, but on all of us. What we need is a major cultural change; and it also involves each and every one of us. We are all responsible, from where we are, for moving this forward. We all have a role to play. I call on you collectively to shoulder this responsibility, with a cross-cutting vision of the issues to bring about a society in which women and girls are truly free.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u41	Minister, Minister, Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. One figure concerns me: 53 per cent of cases of rape are dismissed, 63 per cent of them for lack of evidence. I believe that the very important axis in which our action must take place is time. It is sometimes a race against time to collect evidence. We saw it in some files, where it was said that some drugs that were administered disappeared in the blood after 12 hours. This collection of evidence is therefore essential. We support you in the lead you mentioned to improve the collection of evidence. But it is also necessary for all of you to work to ensure that the chain between the police, the prosecution, the courts...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u42	Minister, Minister, Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. Information, prevention and sanctions must be speeded up because there is an urgent need. Serious means must be found, as you have said, and implemented to enable prosecutors to prosecute the perpetrators and to make combating such violence a real priority. Emphasis should be placed on the training and awareness-raising of judges, with a view to improving the consideration of victims of sexual violence, from the filing of their complaints to the completion of judicial proceedings. Sexual Violence Care Centres (SVOCs) are real levers in this area, and we insist that they be further developed and made more accessible to victims. Of course, we look forward to the completion of the National Plan to Combat Gender Violence. Zero tolerance of these predators must be our response.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u43	Madam President, Madam Minister, football violence has returned from never before. In Ghent, a referee was attacked by the caretaker of one of the two teams. During the same weekend, hunters were thrown on the field, which temporarily caused a goalie to lose his hearing. In early October 2021, five volunteer stewards were injured in riots between supporters of Antwerp and Eintracht Frankfurt. Madam Secretary, last Tuesday an incident occurred in the parking lot along the E40 in Drongen. A resident of the city of which I am mayor, a 63-year-old man and supporter of Manchester City, was attacked, presumably by other football supporters. He was left deadly wounded and left for dead. In the meantime, five suspects appeared before the investigating judge. Hotheads ruin it for the vast majority of sports fans. Violence on and alongside the football field is unacceptable. Anyone who misbehaves must also bear the consequences. It doesn't matter who supports someone. It must always be done with respect for each other. Madam Secretary, I have a number of questions for you. Can you give me a final update on the incident at Drongen? Do you notice an increase in football violence on and around the football ground and stadiums? What measures will you take to eliminate a possible surge of new football violence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u44	Madam President, Mrs De Jonge, football is a celebration that must be able to take place for players, staff, trainers, players' bus drivers and supporters in safe and pleasant conditions, both inside and outside the stadium. Football, like other sports, should be a starting point for meeting and enjoying families, children and friends. Soccer must gather everyone in a shared enthusiasm for the club or just for the sport. Mrs De Jonghe, like you, I believe that the incidents that have taken place in recent weeks are absolutely reprehensible. Certainly the facts in Drongen defy all imagination and cannot be accepted. Violence cannot be accepted in any context. Also with football is no violence, not once, not now and not later. I certainly wish to express my condolences to the victim and to the family at this time. I hope he can recover soon. The investigation is now under way. You will understand that in the context of that investigation I cannot give any further details today, but I am counting on the Justice Department to give an appropriate follow-up to this incident. As far as I am concerned, it is premature to draw a conclusion at this stage with regard to increased supporter violence and football violence. Thousands of supporters have experienced the return to the stadiums after the lockdown as a big party and as a joyous event, both inside and outside the stadiums. Fortunately, for the vast majority of the supporters, as well as for the players and the staff, that went without problems. We cannot and will not tolerate the fact that some people are ruining that party for others and thus creating a very negative image of football, which I do not think anyone's intention can be. I have therefore asked the Football Cell and the FPS Home Office to take firm action against any form of violence. Tomorrow I will sit with the representatives of the first class clubs, the Pro League and the Football League, among other things to discuss that phenomenon. They also have a responsibility in this story because we have to do this together. It is good that the clubs involved immediately condemned this violence very severely, but I also ask them to take all possible measures (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and the initiatives you will take. It is of course important that people can safely go to a football game and that footballers themselves on the field are not attacked by supporters. It is also clear that the football clubs, the supporters' clubs but also the footballers themselves openly reject that senseless violence, which gives a very nice feeling. Strong action against violence is important. Whether we are talking about violence at and around stadiums, police, aid workers or in society in general, we really cannot accept this. I hope that football clubs and supporters' associations will continue to be involved and that you, as Minister, will also be responsive so that a new wave of violence in football is avoided. It has to be clear that this has to stop. And as you say, football must remain a party.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u46	Madam President, Madam Minister, yesterday about 350 police officers were demonstrating in Brussels. The tone seems to have gone up a little bit after you did not agree to receive them to hear their different claims. However, the demonstration ended in peace. You can understand the legitimate anger of the police. After years of crisis organized by the previous government, the police structurally lacks resources. The announcements you made regarding its refinancing are somewhat contradicted by savings provided for in Budget 2022. The Commissioner-General of the Police, on a television show last Sunday, also expressed all his fears about this funding. The claims are always of the same order: the NAPAP, a refinancing, a revalorisation. Minister, could you reaffirm here very clearly and forcefully all the measures that you intend to implement? Indeed, your promises must be translated into reality. You can't just say that we're going to hire 700 police officers to fill the force because, on the ground, the situation is extremely complicated. In the year 2021, there were no additional 1,600 police officers. The police need to be reassured. Although this group is not representative in the union sense of the term, it is, in any case, the emanation of what is currently happening in the police force, which has been put to the test, with tasks entrusted to it as a result of co-vid, acts of terrorism and floods. This recognition belongs to them. Could you tell us how this will work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u47	Madam President, Mrs Matz, I can confirm or reconfirm the importance of the police, who sometimes have to do their work under very complex conditions. I therefore give him my full support. However, allow me to recontextualize things. The federal police have indeed experienced linear savings this year, but not at the same level as other departments. Next year, the same savings are expected. This is a total of about €20 million. But, in return for these savings, there is a lot of investment in the police, both quantitative and qualitative. For example, in 2021, as you know, 50 million euros of additional resources have been earmarked and will be invested in the police and, by 2022, 70 million euros of additional investments will be made. In addition, approximately €80 million will be invested specifically for the police digitalisation project. This is a follow-up to the Parliamentary Committee's recommendations on the 2016 terrorist attacks. Furthermore, as you will have already seen, the cost of NAPAP waiting treatments will also be compensated in 2022 for both the federal police and the local police. The budget for next year shows, once again, that we are going to invest in security and that this remains a top priority for this government. You doubted that there were an additional 1,600 police officers this year. The year is not yet over but we are on track (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u48	I would just like to say that the micro is turned off when the speaking time has expired. I therefore ask both the ministers and the Members of this House to stick to the speaking time provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u49	Minister, thank you for your full response and for your commitment to a pro-activity that you want to attach to this issue. What the police are asking for, those who demonstrated yesterday and the others, is that it translates into reality on the ground. It's not perceptible yet. I know you have to catch up with a lot of years of underinvestment, but it really needs to be extremely visible. We are all indignant when one of them falls under bullets, for example, during an attack, but the recognition we can give them is to be found in the human means and in the material at their disposal for their safety. It is true that the group of policemen present yesterday is not representative. Nevertheless, it would have been good to make a gesture and listen to their demands, which are not very different from those of the unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u50	The questions addressed to Minister Vandenbroucke are answered by Minister Kitir.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u51	Madam Minister, in addition to corona, my group is, of course, aware of other issues as far as health care is concerned, including the fact that there are many people today who delay visiting their general practitioner or specialist because they do not know what to pay or because they fear the bill. Knowing what to pay, how much or how little it is, is essential to lower the threshold to the general practitioner or specialist. I am therefore very pleased that we will soon be voting on our bill on the postage of tariffs. Thanks to this proposal, we will in future ask healthcare providers to indicate their tariffs and convention status visibly. I am also pleased with the budget approved by the RIZIV for healthcare 2022. It takes three new, important measures, namely the abolition of the ban on the application of the third-party payment scheme, so that a general practitioner's visit of EUR 4 can be made possible for everyone in the future, the strengthening of the maximum invoicing, so that care for lower incomes becomes even more affordable and, not to mention, better reimbursement of dental care and the use of dental hygienists, so that no one has to suffer from toothache. For example, we are taking four unprecedented steps towards more accessible and affordable health care and greater solidarity. However, the challenge lies in putting all this into practice and following up. Tight monitoring to see if we really lower the thresholds in practice becomes the challenge. Madam Minister, can you promise that you will closely monitor the effects of the new measures, so that we can really guarantee accessible and affordable care for all people?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u52	Madam Minister, the Socialists had made it a requirement to join the government, a real creed. This requirement was the refinancing of health care. And the least we can say is that the health care budget approved this Monday demonstrates this. The socialists are here and there. And I say bravo. First of all, congratulations on this first budget, based on real health care goals with, at the heart of it, access to care for each patient! Bravo also for the return to a real consultation with the actors on the ground! A total budget of 36 billion is 1.5 million more than in 2021. First of all, it is the sustainability of a budget of EUR 1 billion for healthcare staff, for the activation of the White Blouse Fund and for the implementation of the social agreement. This is the continuation of a budget of EUR 200 million for mental health care. These are also, and are important, new ways for new policies such as the possibility of generalizing the application of third-party fees by all practitioners for the benefit of each patient. It is a measure of accessibility that we Socialists defend for a long time. Can you tell us today what new measures will be at the heart of this refinancing of health care and how the discussions in the General Council took place?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u53	Madam Minister, the government will develop and roll out the general third party payment scheme, which has been approved by the RIZIV Insurance Committee. That is a good thing; it is something the N-VA Group has been advocating for some time. Accessible, accessible care is certainly important. I also read in the text that there will be a reduction in the ceiling for the maximum invoice. In other words, patients who are in high need of care will receive a refund more quickly and will get a full refund of their needs more quickly. However, I have a number of questions about the elaboration and application of both decisions. Firstly, as far as the general third party payment scheme is concerned, I read that it is a matter of consultation at the hospital. So the patient will have to go to the doctor. For the general practitioner it is stated that it must be budget neutral. I would have liked to know whether you have also taken into account any change in the pattern of care, in particular that patients could request a home visit by the general practitioner more quickly. As you know, it is more expensive and time-consuming. Since there are few general practitioners in some rural regions, we must also ensure that every patient can reach a general practitioner and receive care. Finally, I would have liked to know whether nocturnal consultations and house visits have been taken into account. To what extent are they covered by that pattern? With regard to the extension of the maximum invoice, I read that it concerns patients who are eligible for the social maximum invoice. You know, Madam Secretary, that these are the people who live on benefits or who have increased benefits and do not work full-time. So my question is what the government has planned for those people who are just above that barema fall people who work and contribute to the system, but who unfortunately can also get sick and really need the maximum bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u54	Colleagues, accessible and affordable healthcare also requires effective funding in addition to the most effective organisational model. Since this government took office, we have invested heavily in our health care, and we will continue to do so. The question we have asked from the outset is how we use our resources and our money so that they would bring the most in terms of maximum health for all Belgians. This is why, for the first time in history, the health care budget has been based on the care needs of society. This seems logical at first glance, but so far it was not. To date, all stakeholders and stakeholders in our health care system – from hospitals to mutual care, to health care providers – have received a budget on demand and by sector. The Minister of Public Health has abandoned this classic and outdated approach. For this budget, the starting point was to ask what care people needed. Only then, the means were effectively allocated to these needs precisely to make our health care more accessible and affordable. In 2021, the government already invested heavily in our health care. Also in 2022, we will continue to invest EUR 123 million in a new policy, including setting the growth standard at 2.5%. The time is too short to go into all the proposals made by the Minister of Health to make our care accessible and affordable, but I would like to give a few eye-catchers who make that concrete. Firstly, the Minister of Health will ensure that in 2022 the care provider will be given the opportunity not to allow his patient to advance everything and only to charge the brake fee, for example EUR 4 at the regular GP and EUR 3.5 for the preventive check at the dentist. Mrs Depoorter, this is the abolition of the ban, so the healthcare provider will be able to make the choice. The proposal is formulated by the RIZIV Insurance Committee and therefore results from consultation with the actors. You referred to some specific situations. It is clear that a framework with framework conditions is being developed. Secondly, a substantial investment of EUR 45 million in dental care will include the increased reimbursement of various often expensive and complex treatments, as well as the lifting of age limits for preventive dental care. Thirdly, there will be a reduction in the maximum bill in our healthcare system. For families with the lowest incomes, we bring the maximum expenditure to 250 euros per year. For them, we reduce the health bill by 13.3 million euros. Fourthly, EUR 50 million is invested in prevention. We provide extra guidance for people with diabetes and vulnerable and pregnant women and extra help for young people with eating disorders. Fifthly, Mrs Vanpeborgh, making care affordable and accessible indeed begins with knowing how much care costs, as your proposal states, which will be put to the vote shortly. Doctors and other caregivers should clearly hang out their rates in the waiting room and clearly post them on their website. In this way, we ensure that people no longer delay care for fear of unforeseen costs. That is a major step forward towards accessible and affordable care. Sixthly, especially on this Day against Cancer, I do not find it unimportant to add that we are also ensuring better reimbursement of transport costs for cancer patients. Ladies and gentlemen, our health care system is invaluable, and that has demonstrated this corona crisis more than ever before. Investing in affordable and accessible healthcare for all is what this Health Minister does, it's what this government does, for the simple reason that this is investing in all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u55	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply on behalf of Minister Vandenbroucke. You have made it clear once again that there is a change in policy and investment in health care. That really reassures us. For years, we have fought for the achievements of the RIZIV which have recently been adopted. With our bill on posterage, we hope to lower the threshold. We also think it is important that monitoring is carried out. Certainly we are very happy with the third-payer scheme. I would like to join the colleagues of the N-VA in this regard. Now it is happening on a voluntary basis, but as far as we are concerned, it will be compulsory if necessary, especially for our children and young people. Going to the dentist or the general practitioner should not only be affordable, it should also become a habit from an early age. We are also reducing the costs in the longer term, not only for young people but for society as a whole. We'll all get on with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u56	Minister, health is our most valuable asset. This may be a trivial sentence, something obvious to some, but in any case, for the Socialist Party, it is a conviction. A conviction that drives us to the daily fight for quality, fair, accessible and transparent health care. Because it is intolerable for people today to be forced to postpone health care, worse still, to give it up, for lack of means. The measures you have presented today are absolutely in the right direction and place the patient at the heart of our concerns. More prevention and more accessibility are fewer brakes to go for treatment. These are not slogans, not words in the air, but commitments that the Socialists have made, and be convinced that we will always be there to achieve these goals, for a fairer, more equitable and more supportive health care policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u57	This government again proves that it is the government of the beneficiaries, because once again you do not take into account the middle class that is going to work and can also become ill. Once again, you take measures aimed only at those who already have problems, you do not take into account those who are just above the border. There is two billion in taxes on the counter, of which 20 million of the extra VAT you will collect on dental care and certain benefits. You will reduce the invoice, the middle class pays here for the inactive. That middle class should also hope not to get sick, because you did not bring the safety net for them, you only took care of your inactive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u58	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is Day Against Cancer. Perhaps that theme does not leave anyone unmoved, as many of us have already had to deal with the disease from far or close range. Every year, 70,000 people are diagnosed with cancer in our country. From one day to the next, they start a fight against that terrible disease. Fortunately, many treatments are possible in Belgium and we are pioneering new and innovative treatments, such as immunotherapy and other therapies, which also cures many patients, fortunately. However, we must pay attention to the harmful effects of these treatments. Former Minister De Block already contributed to this with her decision to repay her prostheses. Now Think Pink also calls for the treatment of skin cooling to be paid back. This morning at the lung cancer conference, which I organised together with Mr Vanpeborgh, we heard not only experts, but also patients with catchy testimonies. We also learned that there is room for improvement. For example, it is important that more is screened to detect cancer in time. There should also be an update of clinical guidelines and a rapid reimbursement of treatments. There is also room for improvement in the field of psychological frameworking. Patients also ask to be involved in policy. Madam Minister, my core message is that we must continue to work on a favourable environment for research and clinical trials on innovative treatments. Does Minister Vandenbroucke agree? Does he also want to use the necessary resources? Is he prepared to make a stronger commitment to early detection in consultation with the regions? Does he recognise that there is a need for a new cancer plan, especially for lung cancer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u59	Mr de Caluwé, the Minister for Health has consulted the health ministers of the Länder on prevention and early detection of cancer, among other things. It is absolutely the government's ambition to continue to provide patients with smooth access to valuable and innovative treatments. I deliberately underline the word valuable, because not every innovative medicine appears to be as effective as initially hoped or thought. The Knowledge Centre illustrated this recently in its study on innovative oncological medicines. It is therefore important that the pharmaceutical industry continues to carry out extensive clinical studies even after obtaining EEA approval. In order to give patients early access to an innovative and potentially valuable medicinal product, it is important to have a dynamic and efficient legal framework. In reply to your last question, I would like to inform you that lung cancer remains the main cause of cancer death in our country. The good news is that the figures from our Cancer Register show that the three-year survivals for all cancer types together improve from 2013. This survival benefit can be partly explained by an earlier diagnosis. So that remains a priority. Finally, I would like to mention the way in which the Minister for Health wishes to make use of the Europe's Beating Cancer Plan, recently launched by the European Commission. It allows to launch initiatives in all areas of cancer that can contribute to the improvement of Belgian cancer care. To make optimal use of the opportunity, we have commissioned the Cancer Centre to develop a structure that facilitates an efficient knowledge and information exchange between the different stakeholders. Pilot and research projects will be identified and implemented. In the long term, they can lead to policy initiatives focusing on benefits for patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u60	Madam Minister, I am pleased to hear that we must continue to focus on innovative treatments and on the accessibility of these treatments and that we must do everything we can to preserve the good climate for them in our country in order to maintain that smooth access. I was also talking about the reimbursement of wigs or hair prostheses. Today, a proposal is being considered by myself and a number of colleagues, in which we ask for the reimbursement of alternative headgear, such as bandanas and hats. We have heard from several patients that there are better alternatives than a wig. A number of colleagues have already indicated that they will support the proposal. I would therefore like to call on all colleagues on the Day against Cancer to support the proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u61	Madam President, Secretary of State, asylum policy in this country is not going well. A year after you took over the helm in the department of Migration, we're in trouble now. The numbers are swinging out of control. No less than 3.326 asylum applications were submitted in the last month, and 10.528 in the last four months, an increase of as much as 15.5 % compared to 2019. We are heading towards 30,000 asylum seekers in our reception centres. The employees of Fedasil therefore even, quite rightly, decided to lay down the work. The pressure's too high. This creates violent conflicts, both inside and outside our asylum centres. Yet, in an eight-page government statement, this government devotes hardly one single sentence to migration, as if the problem were simply non-existent. That is truly staggering and unreal to establish. Mr Mahdi, instead of publishing a book on your party's demise, perhaps you would have done a better job of a package of measures to prevent this asylum crisis. You will have to do something, because Fedasil can no longer cope with the pressure. Your return coaches and distress campaigns are good, but we both know that they will certainly not change anything structurally to the current crisis. Your promise to speed up the asylum procedure, which you will no doubt quote in your reply, will continue to mop up with the tap open. Mr Secretary of State, what, apart from waiting for a European solution that will never come, will you finally do concretely to reduce the influx? Our country is full. Why do you not work towards a tightening of family reunification for recognised asylum seekers and a limiting of family reunification for subsidiary protection? Why do you not work towards an efficient and effective return policy? Why do you not put in place firm sanctions against third countries that refuse to take back their illegal nationals? Why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u62	Madam President, Mr Van Langenhove, I will not quote a book for you, but you ask what the policy is doing, and I will be happy to answer you. I was in Albania the day before yesterday for a distress campaign in that country, which is in the top 6 of the countries of origin. That distress campaign is aimed at Afghans who are already in Europe and who could come to Belgium. It's a betrayal campaign on the social media. We must ensure that the Dublin agreements are implemented in very difficult conditions, even in spite of the covid crisis. We continue to put pressure on the European Asylum and Migration Pact, which effectively contains a large part of the solution, because the reception network should not be entrusted with people who are already receiving reception in another European country. I am a little surprised, but you are right to ask for structural solutions. For far too long, the policy has not worked on structural solutions. Despite the fact that not only Belgium, but all European countries today face a lot of reception problems, it is noted that it has invested far too little in structural solutions in recent years. You mentioned return escorts, but it's about more than just return escorts. It is about savings in staff throughout the asylum and migration chain in recent years, which makes the reality today that an asylum seeker has to wait an average year for an answer. So for a year, he's in an asylum center, waiting for a yes or a no. And then we're surprised that there's a reception problem? We have decided to invest in staff there too, because it is necessary. After the jojo policy of recent years, of opening and closing, reopening and closing shelters, this government has decided to work on buffer capacity, so that next time it can deal with the flows that come and go. Last but not least, when we talk about structural solutions, much has already been said about the Migration Code. The committee's working on it now. It must ensure that the appeal procedures, which take far too long for those people, are dealt with. We are working on structural solutions. We are not doing anything about the ill-thought-out policy that (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u63	Mr Secretary of State, your thinking framework and that of your colleagues is completely wrong. We do not need an increase in funding for your Department of Asylum and Migration, but a reduction in the influx of illegal migrants and false asylum seekers to this country. We, Flemings, have done our part. We're hospitable, but we're not crazy. We are in the midst of a new asylum crisis that you have caused and the influx of illegal migrants and false asylum seekers is gradually turning into a tsunami. This is also apparent from the alarming figures I have presented here today. Instead of opting for less migration, as the Flemings ask, you choose again for more migration. You continue to send the wrong signal by continuing to create expensive shelters in asylum centres. That's totally wrong. Our country has no shelters too short, our country has too many asylum seekers. We don't need any more shelters. We need fewer asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u64	That concludes the oral questions. I suggest we take a little technical break now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u65	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u66	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Ms Kim Buyst.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u67	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u68	Madam Secretary, it is strange that I should just take the floor. The issue may seem a little formal, but it is very important. What happens in the event of a serious nuclear accident or nuclear disaster in our country? The question then is who pays for the damage. After all, you know that it can be considerable. Everyone still has the Fukushima disaster in mind, now ten years ago. This draft law extends the scope of the Paris Convention, which governs liability in the event of a nuclear disaster. That is why we support it. In particular, it extends its scope to states which do not have nuclear installations themselves and are therefore outside the scope of the Treaty but which may be affected by it. This is the case, for example, for the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, which is covered by a nuclear disaster in our country. We have already discussed the law of 22 July 1985 governing nuclear liability in committee, because the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats had tabled a legislative proposal to extend the operator's responsibility. After all, it is now very low, compared to the enormous damage that a nuclear disaster can cause. So it is really about hidden costs of nuclear energy. It is virtually impossible to cover it as much as possible, but the liability was far too limited and it is now being extended somewhat. The result, of course, is that the State, in other words the taxpayer, will have to pay if something happens. That's odd. There is an operator operating an installation, making a profit and distributing dividends. However, if something goes seriously wrong, it is suddenly no longer responsible. Imagine driving around uninsured with a car and causing an accident while the state takes the fall for it. In the case of nuclear power stations, therefore, there is a special situation. That bill has been discussed and hearings have been held on it in the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate. I regret that, although the Vooruit proposal has not been withdrawn, it is no longer on the agenda. This applies to more proposals which date from the formation of the Vivaldi government. There was also a PS proposal on banning plastic bags and an Ecolo-Green proposal on banning neonicotinoids, bee killers among pesticides. These proposals are now all on hold, and I regret that. I believe that this is also happening in other committees. I'm coming back to the draft bill before us. Madam Minister, you did not really answer my question in committee as to whether you yourself consider that civil liability for nuclear operators is not enough. Do you share that analysis? When that proposal was presented, at a time when you were a Member of Parliament yourself, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats shared that analysis. Is that still the case? I am sorry that the draft before us does not take immediate action in this area and that you do not extend liability more than the Paris Agreement and the additional protocol to it impose on you. I think I have said the most about this. I hope that the proposal by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which is still pending, to increase operators' civil liability properly, will one day be debated in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u69	Mr Warmoes, we are dealing here with the technical settlement of our legislation on civil liability in the event of a nuclear accident. This liability is governed by a number of international conventions. Enlargement is part of a protocol to the treaty. This date back to the Fukushima disaster. It shows how inert the Liability Convention really is. We have prepared everything in time in Belgium to be in order, even for the other countries. We had even included in our law that, until all the other countries were ready, we would settle a number of matters through KB. We're gonna get that out now. This means that from 1 January we will be fully ready for the comprehensive liability of EUR 1.2 billion per nuclear accident for the whole of Europe. That is an important extension. It will also cover damage to persons, the environment and the environment and economic damage. The term of claim is also extended. We discussed unlimited liability during the discussion in committee. I repeat what I said at the time, namely that there are indeed countries with unlimited liability, but that there are still limitations. I refer to Germany on this point. Of course, unlimited liability never leads to unlimited insurance. Each insurance is limited, including the insurance of unlimited liability. For that we only have to look at Germany. With this draft law we are taking an important new step in the area of liability law with regard to the risks of a nuclear accident. We know that this is only a fraction of the real damage. This means that there is still an important responsibility in the area of safety regulation. This legislation must therefore evolve. There must be good supervision and a diligent attitude of the operator. In itself, we have no reason to doubt that. However, it is an important achievement that we certainly should not minimize.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u70	Madam Minister, you may not have said it in so many words, but I would like to conclude from what you said that liability is not enough. There are countries with unlimited liability. You say that it is somewhat limited. This means that there is still work to be done for Parliament, but also for you, Madam Minister. After all, it is a relatively small amount. You mentioned 1.1 billion, which is not much for a serious nuclear accident. Take a look at the damage caused by the floods in Wallonia. It is therefore a relatively limited amount which can certainly be improved. We must continue with this responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u71	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u72	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2207/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2207/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. Articles 1 and 2 shall be adopted article by article. Articles 1 and 2 shall be adopted by article. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u73	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Kris Verduyckt, who refers to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u74	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2093/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2093/3) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. Articles 1 to 3 shall be adopted article by article. Articles 1 to 3 shall be adopted by article. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u75	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u76	- 2200: Christian Leysen, Bert Wollants, Mélissa Hanus, Christophe Bombled, Séverine de Laveleye, Nawal Farih, Kris Verduyckt, Kim Buyst, François De Smet - 2194: Greet Daems, Thierry Warmoes, Raoul Hedebouw, Peter Mertens, Steven De Vuyst, Maria Vindevoghel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u77	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2200/1) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (2200/1) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur is Mr Raskin, who refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a motion for a resolution which is the result of a very long negotiation. As you know, we started the previous legislature by making resolutions on the basis of the interparliamentary climate dialogue. As a reminder, it was created following an initiative by then Flemish President of Parliament Jan Peumans to ensure that certain issues could be discussed with one voice in the area of climate policy. A few years ago we were already able to achieve a first result here. I was able to take the first steps towards common positions for the Interparliamentary Committee on Climate Change and I am glad that we can continue to do so. In this way, we can come up with a position that we support when we go to a COP. You will remember that in the past every parliament in this country made its own climate resolution every year. In view of the number of parliaments in this country, as a result, we made a lot of climate resolutions, so that we could not actually do so much at the subsequent COP, regardless of where it took place. I am pleased that, after lengthy discussions and thanks to the competent leadership of Mr Philippe Muyters, who has made sure that the noses were in the same direction, which is not always obvious in this country, even when it comes to climate change, we have managed to produce a text that could support the approval of many groups. More importantly, it is a text which is currently being discussed and approved in the various parliaments. Yesterday, the Flemish Parliament discussed the text in its plenary session and was adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important that we place a number of strong emphasis in the text to make sure that it is clear where the challenges lie in terms of climate, and above all that we do so in a way that can have an impact on the international climate conference. The pain of those earlier climate resolutions was also that they were very often about ourselves. What would we do here? How would we do that here? By what means would we do that here? And who agrees with that? However, such a climate conference is also largely about how we can ensure that a global problem is also addressed globally. How can we ensure that the right clamps come on the table so that we can get as many countries in this story as possible? We all know, of course, that global action is needed to solve a global problem. That is very important. For the N-VA, however, it is very important that the resolution contains a number of strong points which also make it very clear that it is necessary for those other major trading blocs to be included in the story to ensure that there is an effect at the end of the journey. If Europe achieves the high objectives set, but does not receive the rest of the world, it is a weakness that needs to be addressed. In this respect, I would like to refer to the letter to the Lower House in the Netherlands from the competent State Secretary. It also expresses very clearly its concern at the fact that a number of large trading blocs are not yet sufficiently responsible. There is a very clear reference to large industrial countries, such as Australia, India and China. It is important that we, too, take steps here. The resolution touches on many aspects where steps need to be taken forward. It is important that we organise the necessary things there so that we continue to move in the right direction. The most important thing is that with this resolution we manage to steer all the relevant parliaments in this story in the same direction so that we can speak with one voice in Glasgow and what needs to be done. The following speakers will mention several other elements that are important in the resolution. The biggest step is to show that this interparliamentary climate resolution from a few years ago was not the end, but that we continue to take steps so that the various governments can rely on these texts. In my view, such an interparliamentary resolution weighs more heavily than six or seven different ones, each with its own emphasis. I look forward to seeing what will happen at that summit in Glasgow and how we can translate it properly. I welcome the fact that we are speaking with one voice when we say that, for example, all major trading blocs need to pull on the same leash to ensure that real progress is made in terms of CO2 emissions so that we do not pull a few blocks while others do not. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that what is before us today is a text which is well-behaved and which all these parliaments can support. I think the message today is that we can move forward by making sure that we can bring that story, and that we can look at how we can deal with it in the next phase. The text was rather ambitious about the practice of doing a Burden Sharing operation within Belgium. We know that this is always a very difficult story, and I fear that this part of the resolution will be difficult to reach an agreement on this matter. But never say never, we look forward to the government's initiatives in this area. I think this is an important step in advance and we are pleased that we can support this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. "If the dikes break" was a fiction series that was broadcast by One in the autumn of 2016. And I remember that on Sunday nights we were sitting in front of the whole family. My boys were 13 and 11 at the time. We followed that series that showed the experiences of five main characters dealing with the dikes that broke. Images of flooded streets and houses, people sitting on their roofs waiting for help, desperate people because of missing relatives and friends followed each other quickly. When the series was over, we praised the programmers, who could bring beautiful images using special effects. In our family we also agreed that the story was very far-fetched. On July 15, 2021 I am again with my family, my boys now 18 and 16 years old, looking in front of the tube. Images of flooded streets and houses, people waiting on their roof for help and desperate people because of missing relatives and friends, follow each other quickly. This time, however, it is bitterly serious, because severe floods are raging the south of our country. At the same time, we are drawing up a heat wave in Spain with new heat records and there are severe forest fires in Cyprus, where eight villages have to be evacuated and more than 50 square kilometres of forest disappears. In short, extreme weather conditions are occurring as a result of climate change, which affects us all. It's not a far-from-my-bed show, it's not fiction, it's bitter seriousness. Today we could read in De Standaard that the time window for action closes quickly. At that time, we also entered the final stage of the work of the interparliamentary climate dialogue, chaired and chaired by Mr Muyters. The aim of this working group, already outlined by Mr Wollants, was to give a strong mandate to our negotiators at COP26, the international climate summit that will take place in Glasgow within two weeks. We met and discussed in that working group with representatives of the various parliaments of our country. For example, the Glasgow Climate Summit is also referred to by John Kerry, the American Climate Envoy, as the last chance to limit the most harmful effects of global warming. For our Ecolo-Green Group, the task has always been very clear. Science shows that we need to limit global warming to a maximum of 1.5 degrees Celsius, so we, as policy makers, have to ask ourselves again every day whether we are doing enough. If we do not, it will have consequences for people, their environment and their health, as well as for the economy. There is no such thing as a strong economy in a weak environment. To this end, Europe has already made a strong contribution to the Green Deal, which aims to reduce CO2 emissions by 55% by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050. To this end, the European Commission proposed its Fit for 55 package with a wide range of measures and investment resources. Let it be very clear, for our group, our country must make its voice heard in international and European negotiations. What is more, our country must play an active and proactive role in this. It has already been incorporated into the federal government agreement: we can no longer look away from the climate crisis. To this end, all governments and all parliaments at all levels of policy will have to work together. Just that cooperation had to find a solution in the resolution before us. As representatives of the people, we are obliged to break the climate immobilism that characterised our country over the past few legislatures. As Mr Muyters himself pointed out, the first text of the death or shooting, drawn up by the President, was shot by our group, because he simply did not take into account the votes of the various political groups. We then started all over again. The unequivocal endorsement of the -55 % target was a minimum for our group to reach a joint resolution. We are asking not only for global efforts, but also for Europe and Belgium to make the necessary efforts with additional measures. Therefore, request 16 explicitly states that Belgium and Europe will have to make additional efforts to achieve the increased European target of -55 % by 2030. In addition, request 20 included that the carbon market should in no way undermine the Paris agreement. After all, we do not want loopholes that would stand in the way of effective carbon reductions. Our group also called for more attention to be paid to international justice during the climate crisis. It is a fact that the European Union, of which Belgium is a Member State, is historically responsible for global warming. Although the average Congolese emissions are 273 times lower than the average Belgian, the impact there will be greater than here. The extreme weather phenomena that are already manifesting there and which will more often manifest in the future completely destroy the accumulated prosperity of a local community. Because of this inequality, it was the logic of our group itself that the solidarity agreement agreed upon by the Paris Agreement was honoured. Belgium is currently contributing only EUR 50 million to the EUR 100 billion agreed upon, and we are the 18th richest country. Our group actually asked for an increase in resources to be included, but now the resolution explicitly states that sufficient resources must be mobilised for projects in developing countries, which complement the resources for development cooperation. These are some of the points that are very important to our group. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot ignore it. If we do not want to stick to empty words, our governments will have to work together. Each region will have to make efforts to achieve this European target of.55 % CO2. We are therefore asking the various governments to do this work and to reach agreement on this burden-sharing. Build that future. Ladies and gentlemen, this resolution remains, of course, a general one, it is not a revolutionary step forward. However, three important elements deserve our support. Firstly, the commitment to accept our responsibility and to participate in the reduction of CO2 by 55% by 2030, which is necessary to comply with the Paris climate agreement. Secondly, the interparliamentary nature of this resolution. We have managed, as directly elected representatives, to agree, together with the various parliaments of our country, on climate objectives. Thirdly, the timing. For COP 26, this resolution will now be on the desk of all our climate ministers, who will thus be able to start negotiations at international and European level with a strong Belgian mandate. In this way, they can call for more action and more concrete measures. After all, the time for talking is over, it is time for action. That is why our group will support this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u80	Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to thank my regional and federal colleagues, members of the Interparliamentary Dialogue Climate, for working positively for almost two years to achieve this text, which demonstrates strong ambitions at the dawn of COP 26. On 15 December 2019, in Madrid, COP 25. At the end of this event, the results of which were, to say the least, mixed, the members of the CPID were already looking to the future and the next stage: Glasgow. In the meantime, many events have occurred. Scientific conclusions have been made more precise, an awareness of the stronger climate emergency has become more widely established. First of all, I will mention the impact of the crisis of the Covid-19 on our way of life and our relationship to the world. If its consequences and teachings do not yet appear to us in a clear and distinct way, it has appeared to us that when human lives are at stake, when a great evil touches the world we know, we were able to show solidarity in the face of difficulties. Today, this solidarity is the one we need to face the challenges we face, the challenges we need to go through in order to protect our climate, protect ourselves from extreme weather events, and ensure a healthy environment for everyone. Secondly, during the health crisis, an ambitious recovery plan was needed to change the world so that it would be sustainable in climate, economic and social terms. This is attested by the report on the sustainable recovery of the International Energy Agency (IEA) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the report on the UN's Sustainable Development Goals 2021, which puts the sustainable economic and social transition at the forefront, stressing not only the importance of protecting the climate and the people of our planet, but also the opportunities offered in terms of activity and employment. We were convinced – and this is now universally recognized – that inaction and lack of investment will cost us much more than action at all levels. Thirdly, scientists have alerted the world to the risks of climate change in such an urgent, so assertive way that no doubt can be raised about our future if we do not act today. Increasing temperatures by 1.5° by 2030, warming of the oceans, melting glaciers, rising ocean levels and increasing extreme weather events are forecasts from the recently published sixth IPCC report, which are of great importance in the run-up to COP26. Finally, the dramatic floods of mid-July have shown us that the consequences of global warming affect not only the people of distant countries but all of us. These events once again demonstrate the need to protect the most vulnerable because they are the first to be affected by the consequences of climate change while they are responsible for only a minority of greenhouse gas emissions. In 2019, 1% of the wealthiest people emitted 17% of global CO2 emissions. The richest 10% are responsible for half of the emissions. The contrast with the most disadvantaged is striking. On average, the poorest half of the population emitted only 12 per cent of total emissions. These figures, as revealed by a study by the World Inequality Lab (WIL), cannot be accepted. This is a flagrant inequality to which we must act. The COP will be a major event for the climate, for equality as well, for our present and for our future. The demonstration of urgency is blatant. The COP will have to lead to ambitious measures that are strong enough to meet the challenges facing us. Our motion for a resolution reflects a genuine desire to go further to ensure a healthy future for our citizens, their children and grandchildren. The deadline is fast approaching. Reduction of 55% of greenhouse gas emissions in 2030, carbon neutrality by 2050... And 2030 is tomorrow, 2050, the day after tomorrow! To achieve these objectives, federal and regional entities will have to agree, assume their responsibilities, and assume the necessary commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a mass for the climate fetishists in our hemisphere, because they can stand up for the Glasgow Summit. There is then a classic motion for a resolution in the working group on interparliamentary climate dialogue with a view to COP26. You will surely forgive me, colleagues, but in the past few days I often remembered the famous song that the Dutch Orchestra without Name released in the early 1950s, namely the song who will pay for it; who ordered it; who has so much ping-ping; who has so much money? The members of the Orchestra Without Name were ahead of their time 70 years ago, because the chorus perfectly sums up the consequences of the unfeasible ambitions. Look up the song later and listen to it carefully. But all madness on a stick, the purpose of an interparliamentary resolution is a text that is supported by a majority in each participating Parliament. That amounts to a reverse wedding of Kana, a wedding where water turns into wine, because in this case everyone has to put water in the wine. The wine here is rather heavily watered. I am not accusing of the N-VA colleagues because the chairman of the interparliamentary climate dialogue, as well as the head of the delegation to the Flemish Parliament, is none other than former Minister Philippe Muyters, who was given the difficult task of completing the story as an ecorealist and initially proposing a text of death. Secondly, he had to enter into discussions with the various groups and try to find a common denominator in many amendments, desiderata and no paserans. So I really do understand the production of the watered wine, which is hardly colourful anymore. Moreover, it is to the credit of the chairman of the interparliamentary climate dialogue that he has also entered into discussions with our group on the text of the death penalty. Our group realised from the outset that the initial text had a considerable chance of success. The best proof of this was that we actually thought the text was good, although we might have landed on a abstention, given our criticism of European climate policy with the European climate law and the Fit-for-55 package. In any case, the initial text of the death left a number of basic principles, which we believe may be the right one. This is, firstly, the bottom-up approach, whereby each region itself determines how much and what efforts will be made to achieve the climate objectives set. Secondly, this is the need to organise implementation and objectives cost-effectively. Thirdly, we must pay attention to people's purchasing power and to the competitiveness of businesses. The President also hoped that each group would be able to agree with the limitation of the text to the broad global themes and would not go for a sectoral approach with intra-Belgian concerns, given that in this country each parliament should develop the sectoral approach itself in accordance with the competences, which are in themselves more than difficult enough. Ladies and gentlemen, I would say to the President, who, of course, is not a member of Parliament, that he has tried well, but that it was written in the stars that this would not go far enough for some. How could it be any different? It came to the expected rush of the ecologists and socialists in particular on the death text, which was dismissed by some as an extract from the N-VA programme. The lyrics had to die. This brings us today to a text that fully subscribes to the European climate story of the minus 55%. I take point 16 as the ultimate example. It is requested to take note of the European Council's guidelines of 11 December 2020 to reduce emissions by at least 55% by 2030, but it does not stop there. It does not stop merely taking note, because it added the crucial phrase "to engage actively in this and take additional measures to achieve the objectives imposed," which ultimately makes the text an integral part of the climate policy of the Vivaldi Government. For our group, it was very important that much more emphasis should be placed on the responsibility of the non-European growth countries. The fact that paragraph 19 now calls on the government "to strive for and support all initiatives that allow an assessment of how the strengthened, European national contributions relate to additional efforts from other trading blocs" is far too unbinding for us. This also applies to paragraph 13, which calls on the government to ensure that European climate ambitions are actively promoted by 2050 and to ask the government to call on the other trading blocs to join climate neutrality by 2050. I would like to recall that a few weeks ago Chinese leaders stated that China will no longer build coal and coal-fired energy projects abroad and will increase support to other developing countries in the development of green and low carbon energy. It was also reiterated that China will strive to achieve carbon neutrality by 2060. Ladies and gentlemen, let me have a good laugh, because China built the majority of the coal plants that were completed in 2020 worldwide and accounts for 85% of the coal plants that are still in the scaffolding. In China itself, coal plants are still being built in the numerous provinces, especially in the less prosperous ones. Coal is the source of nearly 40% of carbon emissions in that huge country with a huge energy demand. If it were to go towards carbon neutrality, I would say: if it were to go, it would go through a lot of new generation nuclear power plants. In Europe, but fortunately not in all countries, nuclear energy is being poured out and politically there is no longer any willingness to present an offer policy for investors. More about that in a moment, colleagues. China is not the only country where coal plants are far from being phased out. Australia, for example, is heavily dependent on coal-fired energy and is therefore one of the world's largest emissions of CO2 per capita. The Australian Minister of Raw Materials recently predicted that coal will make an important contribution to the Australian economy beyond 2030. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, CO2 emissions from the energy sector in the European Union decreased in the first half of 2021 compared to the first half of 2019. However, CO2 emissions across the world have increased. Analysis of electricity production in 63 countries representing 87% of global electricity demand and comparing the first half of this year to the first half of 2019 shows that global energy emissions have increased by 12% compared to a dip of the first half of 2020. We all know that this period was marked by the outbreak of the corona pandemic and the currently shrinking economy. Global emissions from the first half of 2021 are up by up to 4.75 % compared to emissions from the first half of 2019. Global demand for electricity has therefore increased by 5% compared to the period before the corona pandemic. The production of wind and solar energy became more important and for the first time accounted for more than 10% of total global energy production. However, this was not enough to meet the rising demand for electricity. Coal was increasingly being used in the world, which was very polluting. This was particularly the case in Asian countries, including China, as I said earlier, where demand for electricity and energy emissions increased by 14%, but also Bangladesh, India, Kazakhstan, Mongolia, Pakistan and Vietnam. A global ultra-fast energy transition during this decade, essential to limit global warming to 1.5 °C, seems to me to be world-wide wishful thinking. You may dream of it as much as you like and attend as many conferences as you like, the result will be the same. The energy transition is taking place in different parts of the world. For example, in Europe, coal energy production fell by 16%, while wind energy and solar energy production increased by 9% and now account for 20% of energy production within the European Union. But the share of green energy is simply not rising fast enough to meet European objectives. Meanwhile, my Green and Socialist colleagues are increasingly admitting that the energy transition will affect us all. It is actually more of a reasoning in the vein of perseverance and perseverance and then comes the Kingdom of God with 100 % production from renewable energy! Meanwhile, apostle Frans from the Netherlands will offer solace with a kind of multiplication of the loaves. And these breads will then be the European Social Climate Fund that will save us. Minister Van der Straeten put it a little bit differently in De Afpartement a while ago. She made the comparison with the renovation of a house, where in the beginning one sits in the dust and afterwards it can only go better. To be honest, I fear that much will be bitten into the dust and that this dusty policy will still cause a lot of dust to blow. And yes, this resolution also contains a number of comments on socially equitable transition. Apparently the concern is growing about what is then described as a kind of premature torpedoing of some parts of the so famous Green Deal. Over the last few weeks we have been inundated in this country with a tsunami of solutions to safeguard the threatened purchasing power of families and the competitiveness of our companies. As always, there was a lot of divergence within the vival score. Instead of a thematic government summit on the climate, it would be better to hold a government stop on rising energy prices. However, ladies and gentlemen, last week we discussed this extensively in this hemisphere. Moreover, the European Commission is now promising to come up quickly with new directives on what Member States can and can do with these prices. Of course, the Commission does not like real price freezes, at most social corrections and income subsidies. I am curious to see how the Heads of Government will stand at the next European Councils on certain aspects of the recently proposed Fit For 55 package on 14 July. Extending the ETS system to housing and transport can have enormous social consequences. Even without Fit For 55, the increasing CO2 price already has a major impact on prices, as a lot of electricity production is still carried out through gas-fired power plants. I would like to refer to an extremely interesting article from De Tijd yesterday which states that the expansion of CO2 trading will make the Flemish energy bill more expensive to 460 euros. This means, in concrete terms, that natural gas would become 36% more expensive with a CO2 price of more than EUR 100 per tonne. In this case, fuel oil becomes 31 % more expensive and petrol 16 % more expensive. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the impact of the insane European plans to extend CO2 emissions trading to transport and construction. The revenues from emissions trading are insufficient to compensate for the price increases, thanks to the same European Commission. I do not think the European Commission is finished with the European Council. At the Council of 25 May 2021, the conclusions stated that the environmental impact and the economic and social impact of the new climate objectives at Member State level should be examined, taking equal account of prosperity and cost-efficiency in the internal distribution of the overall European objectives between Member States. Vivaldi would not be Vivaldi if the questioning section did not call on governments to reach a new Belgian commitment as soon as possible, a new intra-Belgian cooperation agreement on both international climate finance and burden-sharing for the increased EU 2030 target, preferably even before the start of COP26. One of the proposals to reduce the energy bill was the use of the proceeds from the auctioning of CO2 emission allowances, revenues that are blocked for this year, because the old key no longer has a basis because the current agreement has expired. When we talk about CO2, a number of scientists agree that the energy transition cannot be achieved without nuclear energy. In France, too, they understood that. While it was first said that France's nuclear share would be reduced from 75% to 50% over a number of years, it is now coming back to that and in exchange for small modular nuclear power plants that do not emit CO2, are reliable and can be used flexibly. Two weeks ago, a coalition arose in Europe with ten Member States who also believe that an energy transition cannot be achieved without nuclear energy. It is therefore not only France, but also Finland, Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Romania, Slovenia, Croatia, Slovakia and Italy, which are currently considering taking the same path. In the past, I have often argued in favour of nuclear energy being recognised as green, wild and separate from all dogma in this area. And what to say about the little balloon launched by Secretary of State Dermine last week that the European Union has to pump EUR 5,000 billion into the climate? That's pure madness. Who's gonna pay for that? Who has so much ping ping ping? The Flemish Interest does not participate in the mass that will be held today and in the coming weeks. It is particularly harsh to see what crazy state of affairs can lead to government responsibility. The N-VA is running a storm in the media against the climate and energy policies of vivaldi government, but it is extremely flexible in the interparliamentary climate resolution. Mr Ravyts attended the last discussions in the interparliamentary climate committee. It was almost touching how the N-VA negotiators, Flemish MEPs, worked themselves out during the consultation with the Vivaldi troops about the final points and commas. Strong international climate finance, attention to climate migration, climate and gender and so on, all those Vivaldi sweets are in it. Of course, the Flemish government must not go off. There had to be a text to prevent loss of face. So that's the reverse wedding at Kana. Now I also understand better the statements made by the N-VA chairman on cooperation with my party. He once said: I will be clear, or still: if I have to choose between politics or that, then I will stop immediately, or still: I will not deny myself; politics is not worth everything. Now, choosing between politics and that, is indeed choosing between, for example, the knee-down of Vivaldi and the solidity of principle, which we stand for. In the meantime, I've learned what driving the N-VA is all worth. Politically, the N-VA chairman is not worth everything, but certainly the denial of one's own communication, leaving one's own programme in the middle. The present proposal for an interparliamentary resolution is an example of this. With Flemish interest, we will not be voting for the resolution today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u82	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this text of resolution is the result of a compromise in the Interparliamentary Dialogue on Climate. Indeed, on 14 July, the working group of the Inter-Parliamentary Dialogue on Climate agreed on a final version of the resolution. The applications cover a wide range of topics. While this text addresses the climate goals to be pursued, it also addresses the issue of international financing for climate change and loss and damage. He called on the various governments to work together to ensure an effective and useful presence at COP26. The motion for a resolution clarifies the general principles applied in international and intra-European negotiations, such as stressing that the fight against climate change offers economic opportunities and calling for further innovation within the framework of the ambition of climate neutrality. This text also underlines the importance of working towards a circular economy in which waste is a new raw material and extending this principle to CO2. Finally, the proposal calls for an intra-benchmark proposal on the increased 2030 EU energy and climate policy and international climate finance target, preferably before the start of the next COP. Ladies and gentlemen, climate change is a real challenge. We must therefore step up our action, take measures, whether at Belgian, European or international level. Indeed, it is necessary to take action at all levels of power and, of course, at European level with the Green Deal, which calls for a 55% reduction in greenhouse gases by 2030 in order to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. Our country is part of the group of those who have the ambition to adopt a strategy to achieve the Paris targets by 2050. For example, the federal government recently endorsed the ambitions and commitments of the federal climate policy for the period 2021-2030, with a path of 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to the 1990 base year. This ambition is in line with the government agreement. Additional measures have been agreed for a total emission reduction target of 25 million tonnes in order to strengthen the federal objective of the National Energy-Climate Plan. In the area of finance and taxation, this concerns in particular the reform of environmental taxation. In the area of energy, the roadmap envisages, inter alia, strengthening the offshore capacity of the North Sea, adapting the transport infrastructure to the energy transition and using hydrogen. The greening of the public vehicle fleet or the renovation of public buildings are also mentioned. In conclusion, this motion for a resolution is the result of work between the various parliamentary groups in just a few weeks. Perhaps some will find that this interparliamentary resolution is not ambitious enough. For the Reform Movement, it is a step forward and is the result of a realistic approach that was adopted from the very beginning of its drafting. Of course, our group will support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u83	Madam President, Glasgow was just 30 years ago one of Europe's most successful cultural capitals. It was the real start for the transition from the old industry to the creative economy. It became a success because from the start everyone was taken into account in the story, both young and old, poor and rich. In ten days, the 26th Climate Conference will start in the same city. It will undoubtedly be the big challenge again: to bring everyone along. The key is still found in Glasgow. The need to act against climate change has never been so great. We cannot repeat it enough. This summer, our country, especially Wallonia, was hit hard by unprecedented floods. The expectations for COP26 are therefore rightly high and I am very pleased that the resolution before us is not only supported by the majority. It is also worth noting that we have reached agreement across our country's parliaments on the resolution in the interparliamentary climate dialogue. Through these efforts, the resolution has a very strong support for the relevant parliaments and political parties. With the resolution we have a clear message, which the Belgian delegation will be able to take with us to Glasgow. The resolution contains a number of themes, which have already been widely discussed. It is important to stress that the efforts made so far at world level are insufficient to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The ambition at global level needs to be higher. As far as European ambition is concerned, we support the move towards a climate-neutral European society by 2050, but we are not an island. Other trading blocs outside Europe must also make similar efforts. We must also call on them to join the European ambitions for 2050. We are not an island, but the tasks in our own country require at least the same amount of effort. Sometimes we get a little help. Our automotive industry Volvo Ghent, Audi Vorst, is now building electric cars with its more than 10,000 employees. In two years' time, that will only be electric cars. However, it will be a bigger challenge to help our own farmers with the European Green Deal. Another important point in the resolution concerns the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism. A system should be introduced at European level to ensure that imported products from outside the EU are produced in an equivalent sustainable manner to those from within the EU. For this purpose, a carbon border charge may be introduced. In this way, we are protected from producers who do not strive for the climate and thus market polluting products or contaminated products. Of course, this system must be implemented in compliance with WTO rules. With regard to international climate finance, CD&V calls for a balanced, appropriate contribution, as laid down in the UN Climate Change Convention, and for its own international climate ambition, by contributing correctly to international climate financing and development cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, the final request in the resolution is one of the most important. We ask our competent ministers to distribute the burden within Belgium as soon as possible for the increased EU 2030 target and for international climate financing. It will not be evident, as requested in the resolution, to do so before the start of COP 26, but we are nevertheless calling on our ministers not to delay, not to waste any time. Finally, I would like to thank the participants in the interparliamentary climate dialogue for their work. This resolution is an important step for everyone. We therefore hope for the support of everyone in this House today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning on the front page of De Standaard, there was a dangerous gap between climate rhetoric and reality. It could almost be the title of the COP26 resolution of the Vivaldi coalition and the N-VA. The measures I read in that resolution are mainly climate rhetoric, political climate rhetoric that is miles away from scientific reality. The Climate Coalition is therefore right when it says: politicians stand by as disaster tourists. 50 000 citizens came out to ask for an ambitious climate policy, and a Belgian climate plan with concrete measures. But what do they get? A vague federal plan with a budget that's peanuts. It is two weeks before COP26, but there is still no agreement on the distribution of the Belgian climate effort. There is virtually nothing fixed about Belgian climate policy. The only thing we have to go to the COP is an interparliamentary resolution that excels in lack of ambition. Then you wonder why the climate youths won't sit on their school benches tomorrow while the politicians insist on watching the world go to hell? But you already know us, we from the PVDA have tabled an alternative resolution. We're not gonna sit around with the suits. Our resolution is ambitious. She gets rid of the blind confidence in the market. It is putting an end to the institutional fragmentation of climate policy in our country. In addition, we ask for absolute guarantees that there will be no carbon tax that will transfer the cost of the climate transition to the working class. What really bothers me most is that we continue to look for solutions and ways out of the climate crisis within the failing capitalist market system. That is simply a policy of climate change in the most antisocial way. One sets up carbon markets, creates new taxes, and makes everything more expensive for ordinary workers. The polluter pays, that's what it's called. In principle, however, this means that anyone who can pay can also continue to pollute the whole box. Anyone who can't afford it just stays in the cold. In a country where 20 multinationals are responsible for the same amount of emissions as all households combined, it is fundamentally unfair that these households are constantly billed while the multinationals are always out of line. Instead of greening, the big polluters simply transfer the invoice for their allowances to the public. The result is that the citizens pay themselves blue and the climate transition is not getting any closer. Colleagues, that's what we fit in for. We want a social and decisive climate policy, through a public approach. We must start from a thorough ecological planning process in order to be able to make ambitious public investment in a targeted way. Then we are talking about more than the shell that Vivaldi has left for the climate. In addition, the major polluters must pay for their greening rather than transfer the invoice to the taxpayer. That is why we want to impose binding standards so that they are obliged to make the necessary investments to bring their emissions down quickly enough. Only in this way will we get there in time for the transition, without causing a social massacre. If we are to have a decent climate policy, we need unity of command. There isn't one in our country. Climate powers are fragmented across four governments, all of which can block ambitious climate policies. It is even so absurd that climate laws that apply to the whole of Belgium are currently unconstitutional. In other words, our state organisation ensures that there can be no climate legislation in Belgium. That's crazy. We therefore believe that it is absolutely essential that the federal level be given full authority to formulate our country's climate policy. The climate crisis is too important to leave to Belgian fighting federalism. Colleagues, the choice is clear. Are we going to remain hopelessly behind the facts in Belgium with climate policy or are we going to use COP26 to finally change things? In any case, the PVDA chooses the latter, but I note that this is not the choice of the majority. The resolution of Vivaldi and the N-VA is not a product of what is scientifically necessary, but of what is considered politically possible, despite all requests for a science-based policy. This translates into a poignant lack of ambition. The present resolution takes note of the EU's climate objective of reducing emissions by 55% by 2030 compared to 1990. Science and civil society have long argued that this reduction should be 65%. In addition, we are talking about real emissions reductions, net. When we look at the way in which the current EU 2030 target has been set, it actually amounts to less, namely a sloppy 52% effective reduction in emissions. Citizens rise up against that, and I don't blame them. Also tonight, there is a protest going on for the European Council building to ask for a more ambitious and binding European climate law from the Heads of Government at the European Summit. Let it be clear, with this inadequate objective, we will not be able to limit global warming to one and a half degrees Celsius. I know, however, that the standard thread of some parties is that the European Union is only responsible for 8% of global emissions and that the rest of the world must therefore do its best. However, when we look at our consumption emissions rather than our production emissions, we come up with a completely different picture, especially if we place this in a historical perspective. Developing countries are now hampered in their development by the effects of the historical emissions of developed countries. So it seems only fair to me that the developed countries are making additional climate efforts to allow developing countries to develop. Most countries in the global South have done almost nothing to cause the climate crisis. However, they are now inundated by its consequences. They already barely have the resources to adapt to a changing climate, let alone to actively combat the crisis. So the least Belgium can do is make a correct contribution to international climate financing. You also ask for that correct contribution in the resolution before us, albeit without, of course, mentioning the correct amount. However, we all know that this amounts to EUR 500 million per year and that so far Belgium has not contributed more than EUR 100 million per year. When we see the different budgets, we know that the different governments are not really going to change that. This shows a total lack of responsibility for our historic emissions. It is essential to support poor countries in order to achieve the global objective of the Paris Agreement. We really must respect the Paris Agreement, but the introduction of an international carbon market, which this resolution calls for in request 20, will be counterproductive in order to achieve the objective. The resolution may so often mention respect for the Paris Agreement, but the introduction of a carbon market will not succeed. After all, what country will increase its ambitions if it knows that it can sell certificates in addition to the target for any reduction in emissions? An international carbon market will inevitably lead to a downward pressure on national ambitions. After all, we are given a financial incentive not to increase national ambitions, but to keep them low. That you continue to support the proposal for an international carbon market, against my better judgment, I really cannot understand. All the examples from the past were dramatic. Think of the debacle with the Clean Development Mechanism from the Kyoto Protocol, but we also have the ETS closer to home. This has barely led to emission reductions since it existed. Industry emissions have only stagnated under the ETS, which has not been falling significantly for ten years. The majority of emissions reductions in the energy sector are not due to ETS, but to the breakthrough of renewable energy and to energy efficiency. The ETS itself does not give companies an incentive to reduce their emissions, they simply pass the price of the allowances directly on to their customers. We cannot leave climate policy to the whims of the market, but unfortunately that is exactly what this resolution is doing. It follows the logic of the neoliberal Green Deal to the letter, climate policy must be at the service of economic strength. We need to further market it with international carbon markets and carbon border mechanisms. Public subsidies should mainly be used as leverage for private investors, or private financial institutions should still be supported, so that they align their funding with the Paris Agreement and a climate-neutral society. However, by supporting the private sector here and there and keeping roots in it, so that they can please comply with the climate objectives, we will not get there. We need a serious policy with binding emission reduction standards, so that the private sector is obliged to invest, rather than having policy makers throw gifts at the big polluters with the question of whether they want to green up a little. We want the real polluters to pay for the transition. Our companies pay out generous dividends. So no one can claim that the companies in Belgium have no money to invest in a green cover. Now they don't do that until the government gives them money. For example, ArcelorMittal receives hundreds of millions of euros of taxpayers' money for equipment to produce green steel, while in previous years it has paid a multiple of that amount to its shareholders. In other words, the citizen pays the bill and the shareholder sleeps on his two ears. It can't go on like this, can it? We must force companies to invest themselves in their transition through binding standards to reduce their emissions. That is really necessary to tackle the climate crisis. We must make the shift from a neoliberal market-based approach to the climate crisis to a public and planned approach. We need them, if we want to get everyone involved in the story and if we want to take strong action against climate change. The government needs to invest in alternatives so that citizens can live climate-neutrally without compromising well-being. Let me give you a concrete example. We should not introduce an ETS for buildings. According to a recent study by Climact, this would increase the energy bill for households by a further 400 euros a year, as was still in the paper today. Actually, that's a carbon tax. On the other hand, we must enable citizens to isolate their homes sufficiently. There is a need for a different public approach, whereby the government plans to tackle whole neighbourhoods at once and prefinances the renovation costs through a third-payer scheme. This will help both citizens and the climate. That is a global approach we must advocate at COP26. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: we are not satisfied with the motion for a resolution before us. The measures are hardly close to what is needed effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u85	There is a question from Mr Buyst.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u86	Mrs Daems, I have listened to you very carefully. I would like to say a few things. Is the resolution proposal perfect? No, it's a compromise. There are not many measures, which our group considers important, and I am convinced that there are a number of things that do not make the N-VA Group hot. But by compromise, steps are being taken forward and solutions are being worked on. And that's what we have to do in politics. We have succeeded in making a single text with all the parliaments of our country. Now, as I have argued before, we can take the next step if every government and every parliament is fully involved. One can always stand on the sidelines or one can decide to work together to take a first step. And this motion for a resolution is a stepping stone to more.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u87	Yeah, we work together. We worked very constructively in the interparliamentary climate dialogue, and my colleague Mr Warmoes took part in those negotiations. We have been constructive and have tabled amendments, for example, but at some point there is a growing awareness that the proposal before us is simply not enough. We are certainly prepared to compromise, but provided that they are in line with climate science, of course. The laws of nature cannot be negotiated, and that is what you have done. Science says that there is a need for 65% emission reduction, but you think that 55% is enough. That's not how we're gonna get there. There are red lines, there is climate science and it must be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u88	Madam President, my colleague Daems presents our findings on the final outcome of this interparliamentary climate dialogue. I was there for PVDA myself, which is why I'm taking the floor. We have worked very hard on the motion for a resolution. As Mr Buyers has just pointed out, the first version of Mr Muyters was not only acceptable to us, but also to Ecolo-Green and other parties. We then had to formulate proposals and we were concerned about Mr Muyters, whom I also spoke with. There has been a second version, to which we have tabled 22 amendments. I asked if it could be voted on, but apparently that was not allowed in the interparliamentary climate dialogue. Several amendments were accepted. Therefore, for example, it now says "minimum 55% reduction' instead of "55 % reduction', and it was remediated to the fact that there was no record of the amount of funding needed for climate finance. Several improvements, which we, as well as others, had proposed, were accepted. Nevertheless, there are elements in the text that are not acceptable to us for reasons which my colleague mentioned. It is our right to find that and to point out that the steps are totally inadequate. One can take steps, but people have known about climate degradation since the 1980s and we have thus been taking steps for 50 years. At some point it has to move forward. So I do not accept the claim as if we were standing on the sidelines. We didn't do that. We have committed ourselves and contributed together with others to an improved or less bad text by adding certain passages.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u89	I hear Mr Daems say that she relies on climate science, but you come here with discussions about the capitalist system and about our state structure. I would very much like to discuss this with you, because there is indeed a lot to say about our climate policy and the state structure, but Mrs Daems, we are two weeks ahead of COP26 in Glasgow. We won't settle that kind of discussion among ourselves. You know that, too. If we have to start discussing this with each other, then we are still going on for years and there is simply no time. What we have been trying to do here is to deal with a number of issues in which all the parliaments in our country could agree and serve as a message to our negotiators. I do not think we would have succeeded in reaching a compromise on state structures or capitalist systems. That seems impossible to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u90	We, too, do not want to palave over the capitalist system infinitely. We have tabled an alternative motion for a resolution with 36 concrete measures. I don't know what else we can do. Let us be clear: the measures in the resolution before us do not come close to what is really necessary. What we need to do now is leave the story of fossil energy. That is why we need to stop investing in fossil fuels and searching for fossil resources. That is the logic itself, if we want to combat the climate crisis effectively. We read in the newspaper this morning that countries and companies continue to invest in fossil energy. If we do not intervene, the production of fossil fuels in 2030 will be more than twice as high as what can or can be done to stay below 1.5 °C of warming. That is why last month thousands of scientists and hundreds of NGOs called for a non-proliferation treaty for fossil fuels. We have also proposed to include in the motion for a resolution a request for a moratorium on the search for new sources of fossil fuels and their exploitation, but you simply voted against it. That's another example. I really can't reach that. That measure is just a scientific no-brainer. According to the IPCC and the International Energy Agency, we can only exploit a fraction of the known reserves to remain below 1.5 °C of warming. That is why I once again tabled the request as an amendment today. It is now up to you to show that you really mean it with the climate. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said earlier, we have always continued to work constructively in the interparliamentary climate dialogue by always putting forward proposals to improve the text of the resolution. Some of our suggestions, such as request 34 on the uneven gender impact of the climate crisis, have even been met and have been incorporated into the text. We're happy about that. In practice, however, the proposal for an interparliamentary resolution remains far from what is needed to limit warming to 1.5 °C. That is why, in the same spirit of construction, we have tabled a number of amendments on fundamental points. We want to replace request 16 so that we no longer take note of the insufficient EU target of 55% emissions reduction by 2030, but take full advantage of the target of 65% emissions reduction, in line with science and with our responsibility as a historic extortionist. We also want to replace request 20, so that it no longer advocates the installation of an international carbon market, but rather opposes it. Putting climate policy in the hands of the market undermines the achievement of our climate objectives. In addition, we want to replace request 21. This calls for a European carbon border tax. We do not need another market mechanism to correct the excesses of another market mechanism. We do not need more market, but just less market for climate policy. We also want to replace request 30, because the wording of interparliamentary resolution is too non-binding. Disinvestment from fossil fuels must not be non-committal. Moreover, the request concerns only the public authorities and not the banks, which are nevertheless among the largest funders of fossil investments. If we want to make the transition to a carbon-neutral world, both public and private investors must disinvest from fossil fuels. Those who continue to invest in fossil, we must be able to sanction them. We want to replace Request 43 on Burden Sharing with a request to refederalise climate powers in order to put an end to the endless squabbling about the distribution of climate effort and finally facilitate a coherent and coordinated climate policy. Finally, we would like to add a new request to obtain absolute guarantees that no antisocial and ineffective carbon tax will be introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, climate policy is omnipresent today, whether it concerns the NATO summit, the G7 summits or those international climate summits, as in Glasgow within two weeks. The seriousness of global warming is widely recognised today. It's been different once. The first scientific predictions are now more than a hundred years old. Mr Warmoes spoke about the 1980s, but I think that society and politics did not really wake up until after the turn of the century. One of the first important political facts was the Kyoto Agreement, which Belgium, together with all the other European countries, ratified in 2002. I'm also thinking of the documentary "An Inconvenient Truth" by Al Gore 15 years ago, who painted that story very clearly for quite people. 15 years is not eternity in itself. That may be one of the few good news facts today. We have done something in 15 years. We have built a lot of structures in those 15 years. We've made climate records. We have organised international climate summits. We have created scientific structures, such as the IPCC. Climate ministers have come. All this has happened at institutional level. Companies have started working. Some have looked at their ecological footprint and have seriously intervened. In others it has been a form of greenwashing. Companies have also sought technological solutions to the problem before us. Citizens haven't been idle in those 15 years either. New organisations have emerged, citizens' initiatives, climate marches that have led to tens of thousands of people. That's all happened in those 15 years. Today we have the manpower, the science, the technology, the plans. Now it's time to really put the excuses aside. After all, there are facts. Never in history has the Earth warmed up as quickly as in the past 50 years, plus 1,2°C compared to the pre-industrial era. Colleagues, the planet we started 150 years ago is no longer built up with factories, motorways and airports. We live on another planet today. I am not talking about exotic island states such as the Maldives and Seychelles, which we already know with scientific certainty that they will not make it to the end of the century. I am not talking about cities such as Havana, Shanghai and Miami which already know that they are seriously threatened by sea level. I'm not talking about that planet. No, I am talking about a planet that we, as policy makers, can no longer guarantee, and that is what we would like most, that people on that planet can have a safe life, have a roof over their head. We cannot guarantee this security anymore today. Not even in our country anymore. That is the lesson we must learn from the floods of recent months, floods near our door. The images we saw from Verviers, Trooz and Heppenert did not come from distant places, such as the huge fires in Greece or California, the melting Greenland or the enormous heat in Canada. Those images were taken near us. The situation in our country is therefore more than serious. The cost of that is also enormous. Schools and hospitals have been destroyed. I wonder who will pay for that, Mr Van Lommel. Who's got that much ping? That is the situation with an increase of only 1.2 degrees. The 1.5 degree isn't far anymore. I don't know who else believes we'll make it. Today, with all the promised reductions, we are on a path to 2.7 degrees. That means that large parts of the earth will be uninhabitable. It's about places where hundreds of millions of people live today. I bring in the words of António Guterres, the UN Secretary-General. He's talking about a catastrophic road on his way to a hellish future. We all know the reasons for this catastrophic path. Today, our society is driven by fossil fuels, such as oil, gas and coal. It has already been said that there is even a desire to build coal power stations in Asia today. That's insane. I think that Europe can really protect European companies from this, but that should not be a reason for me to be a member of some of us, to put our strength in the back pocket. The second main reason is a lack of action. Policy makers look at the ever warmer lamp and we look at each other. Today it leaked that some countries are even trying to minimize the UN climate reports. That makes me pissed off and sad at the same time. That is not the way we should go. We all know that there is a need for a change in the system. That is obvious, but that system change comes with a cost and uncertainty. The greatest uncertainty, however, is what we are blowing in the air today. Moreover, as I said earlier, we are postponing the enormous cost of this. That doesn't mean there's just bad news. Measures are also being taken in our country. I saw SERV's report today. He gives a number of important input for the Flemish government on insulation and electrification, with which one really needs to get to work at regional level. We've been saying that for a long time. At this level, too, good measures have been announced in the last week, such as investment in rail or international climate finance. Mrs Kitir will soon be leaving abroad to work on projects in a vulnerable country. Another measure is the phasing out of fossil subsidies, absolutely not enough, but it is a first start. Windmills at sea, too. Those are good projects. But I will be clear to his colleagues, they are not enough. It's gonna take more than that. The good thing about this resolution is that we can prove that we can make progress in this country and that we can conclude agreements together, even if not everyone was at the same speed. We shouldn't be faint about that, it was. But we have been able to conclude agreements. We have been able to produce a text that can serve to get our negotiators in Glasgow to speak out of one mouth if they so wish. That's good. I would therefore like to thank my fellow Members and the President, Mr Muyters. But am I optimistic today? No, absolutely not. I think the result of the text is too little. For me, ambition has to be higher. I could point the brakes around the table today, or I could say that the PVDA ran away from the table again and absolutely wanted to be the most punished in the classroom. I won't do that. Come on, it won't do that. 'Cause that's not gonna help us out an inch today. That will not help us, and certainly not our negotiators in Glasgow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u92	I can't let this pass. I just said that we didn't run away from the table at all. We abstained in committee. We will abstain today too. That's not running away from the table at all. We have fought to the bitter end to improve the text by introducing a number of things that my colleague has already mentioned, such as gender and international climate funding. We didn't run away at all. We'll keep working on it. You yourself say, Mr Verduyckt, that the text is insufficient. Well, then approve our amendments, then he will get better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u93	Mr Warmoes, that is actually easy. We could all have done that. We could all have put our list on the table. With me there would have been other things in it than in your text, other things than in the text of the N-VA, and other things than in the texts of the Greens. I'm sure of it. We could have paved the way to Glasgow with those papers. But what are we gonna do with that? In the end, the intention was to conclude an agreement. That's what happened here. What I am blaming you for is that you cannot get rid of your great right and keep telling me how to do it. Then you know you can never make a deal. That's the problem. We will therefore support this resolution because we can help our negotiators further in Glasgow. From tomorrow onwards, we will be working again for an even more ambitious, socially just climate transition, because we believe that it is absolutely necessary. We'll continue our search for partners for that story. I am sure we can find them here in Parliament. Today, everyone has to ask themselves whether he has done enough to face this immense challenge and whether he can live with the compromises we make about our planet. Everyone has to do that for themselves. I was on the climate march two weeks ago and a young man asked me two questions. He asked me if our country is doing its best and I replied that our country is doing its best. Then he asked me if we're doing enough, and I replied that we're not doing enough. We're running out of excuses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u94	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this global conference on climate in Glasgow is crucial, as are all the climate conferences of recent years. The months we have just lived, the severe floods in our country but also in other countries like Germany, the catastrophic fires in southern Europe, the diluvian rains today in Australia with hailstones of a size of 16 centimetres – we would never have seen such a phenomenon of human memory – remind us, if we still had to, how fast and strong we must act to slow down global warming in order to try to avoid the worst consequences of climate disruption. It's not 11:55, it's actually past midnight. We know that we will not be able, or more fully, to preserve a climate that would avoid environmental, demographic and health disasters – The Lancet reminded us today – that could be extremely damaging to humanity and its environment. We know we can still avoid the worst-case scenarios. To use the expression of the demonstrators for the Climate, "the time is no longer in the blabla". However, I must tell you, minister, that this is a bit of the impression that the resolution before us gives us. It is sympathetic; it is even ambitious in terms of results, from the course to follow – reducing greenhouse gases by 55% in 2030 compared to 1990 – but it remains unclear on the road map. To show that we are truly moving from intent to action, this resolution lacks a scoreboard, a burden-sharing among federated entities, and figures in areas such as international financing for climate change. There is a lack of concrete actions and figures! About the distribution of burdens among federated entities, I had a guess to submit to you. Who said in 2015: "Madam Minister, we are seventeen days from the start of the Paris Conference and Belgium still does not have a climate agreement on the distribution of efforts to be made. We have lost all credibility." Who said that? He's the current co-chair of Ecolo. Here, on November 12, 2015, he declared that, because there was no burden-sharing, the government had lost all international credibility. We are 11 days away from COP26 and we do not have an agreement between the federated entities and the federal state for burden-sharing. I wonder, then, what about our credibility today. I have heard quite dithyrambic interventions here. Six years ago, in the same situation, the statements were, to say the least, different. This lack of agreement undermines the scope and sincerity of the motion for a resolution being debated. A text without the details of the concrete actions that will be taken to achieve the objectives will, we fear, at this stage only be a catalogue of good intentions. If this is the case, Belgium's image will be largely and severely damaged. I hope we don't get to that. We will know in the coming weeks and months. In any event, I have some doubts, in view of the latest statements by Mrs Khattabi, who unfortunately is not present today. I quote: "We can now go to Glasgow with a federal position and negotiate a new cooperation agreement with the Regions." It is not a federal position that we need, but a Belgian position. Through her statement, the minister had almost a defensive position. The CDH, for its part, wants a real Belgian position. There are still a few days to define it. We do not need a single position at the federal level, but a consolidated position of all entities in this country. Concrete actions are also called for by many actors and associations. This is the case of Rise for climate Belgium, which spoke in the press this morning. Once again, I say well for the 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, congratulations for carbon neutrality in 2050, congratulations for the 233 million tonnes of CO2 reduction by 2030! But how are we going to get there? On this subject, the page is blank. There's no dashboard. That's where the boat really hurts. Despite this disappointment, since we are constructive people, we are going to vote on this resolution, Madam Minister. Indeed, an effort is being made by all the parliaments of that country, by all the federated entities, and this effort must be stressed. In addition, a weak voice is preferable to cacophony, rather than lack of consolidated communication. We prefer this path, but, it is true, we have not signed this resolution for this reason: it is sorely lacking in precise data, in a path, in a road that would reassure us that these are not statements of intent today. In the coming weeks and months, these should be concrete actions, dashboards, indicators that would show us that we are actually achieving that objective. We sincerely hope to be reassured in the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, last July, the tangible reality of climate change came to light in a deadly and violent manner during the cataclysmic floods that hit our country. In the wake of the recent climate march of 10 October last year, the resolution submitted to the vote of our Assembly, to which my group fully subscribes, once again clarifies, just a few days from the beginning of COP26 in Glasgow, the climate emergency with our federal state leaders and federated entities, and aims to unite. This resolution has the merit of being detailed, if not exhaustive, on the issues involved in the implementation of the Paris Agreement, our European obligations, but also the carbon market, the financing of the transition and the fight against climate change, the recognition of climate migration, the efforts to be made by sectors such as aviation and navigation, which are major producers of greenhouse gases, and biodiversity, throughout the 43 recitals which are all claims to the climate. In particular, I welcome the fact that, at the end of the resolution, the Commission clearly calls on our authorities to quickly set a new intra-Belgian burden sharing in line with the EU's 2030 enhanced energy policy and international climate finance target. I do not know if this can be done before the beginning of COP26, but in any case, let us avoid the distressing psychodrama that our country had given itself regarding this burden sharing upstream of COP21. We measure all the sometimes structural difficulties and efforts to be efficient in the fight against climate change, but we no longer have a choice. The question is no longer to know who wins and who loses, between the federal state and the federated entities, in a cyclical way, but to have a vision and objectives quantified at the level of our country, in order to move forward in the quest for the summit of this mountain that is not impossible, and to give an image of our country that must prove to be a leader and an example in terms of climate ambition. Finally, the resolution stresses the cross-cutting nature of the climate issue and its integration into the broader context of sustainable development, a UN concept that must guide our action in order to ensure this economic and social transition, since the climate emergency is a vital priority, but also an opportunity. This is just a resolution, but the moment is important. It provides a strong legal and political framework that goes beyond dogmatism and ideologies to the Belgian government and regional governments and negotiators representing Belgium at COP26. It is now up to them to live up to this important challenge for our country and for the entire planet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, yes, we can. In this country, we can still work together to draw up a joint resolution across all the institutions. It was Jan Peumans who, as President of the Flemish Parliament, started the dialogue to bring the various groups together, and in this country there are 11. I am therefore particularly pleased that nine of them have found each other. The extremes haven't joined it. I thank those groups for that, and I also thank Philippe Muyters, because it was not easy. Thank you also to all those who have worked constructively on it. I would also like to thank my predecessor. I am fortunate to have submitted this as chairman of the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate Change, but Patrick Dewael has also made an important contribution on behalf of the Chamber. Who's really happy with this text? Do the liberals think he's perfect? No, but neither the Socialists nor the Greens nor the N-VA. In a country where the electorate has given a mandate to so many parties, to realize something, you have to try to get off your electoral program. We want to give a clear mandate to our ministers at COP26 in Glasgow. Once again, I would like to thank all my fellow Members who have entered this mindset for their commitment. Al Gore once talked about an inconvenient truth, but so there are a lot of them. The August IPCC report points out once again that climate change and its consequences will come to us even faster. The need to mitigate change and adapt to it is increasing. Let us be honest, COP26 is important because we want to test what is being done to achieve the commitment of the Paris Agreement. All countries must now confess to colour. There is a need for policy responses to many other warnings. The Belgian commitment is, of course, part of the European commitment. With the Green Deal and the Fit for 55, the European Commission has clearly put on the table an ambitious bundle. This resolution supports European ambition, because I am convinced that we will not solve this global problem regionally or sub-regionally. We all want Europe to take a leading role in this, preferably together with as many others as possible, but we must ensure that there is a global level playing field. Otherwise, our efforts will also be lost. An important global instrument that also requires international cooperation is the international carbon market. The challenge there is to lay down the right rules. Colleagues, the discussions in Glasgow will not be evident, but we must be honest, the agendas of the Asian and African countries are not parallel to Europe's agenda. An important element for them is that their energy needs will increase in the coming years, either because they are facing significant population growth, or because they want to get a significant proportion of their population out of poverty and energy poverty. An inconvenient truth, when I was born, there were 2.7 billion people on Earth. Today it's three times more. We must not overlook this uncomfortable truth. China has probably done the most for the climate in the last 50 years with the reduction of the population. Let's not look at that too theoretically. Let me just say, naughty, is the planet waiting to be rescued? What difference does the planet make to go back to the ice age or the time of the dinosaurs? So let's be honest. It is clear that we must deal wisely and responsibly with the planet, in order to ensure our own survival as humanity. It's the economy, stupid, it won't surprise you that I quote this as an entrepreneur, but I want to change that to we need the economy, stupid. Let's not be mistaken. We need to act. With slogans and international high-misses alone, we won't make it. Not only the government, but also the citizens, but also the companies have an important role to play as partners in this energetic turnaround. Entrepreneurs and businesses are actors that have to play and adapt. They can also realise the necessary levers to enable this transition through innovation, through targeted investments and through the introduction and confession of the ESG principles. The transition is and remains a major challenge, but is also an opportunity. More resources will be created through economic growth, which will increase the number of people employed through more work, which will make it possible to finance the energy change. That is all the more reason to start the reform of the labour market thoroughly and quickly. The financing aspects are addressed in Glasgow, and also in this resolution, in particular the use of public funds as leverage to achieve the right investment in combination with private funds. Europe has clearly called for this. It is, of course, important to ensure the effectiveness of this funding in climate policy. We are working to ensure that the funds are always well spent. The problem is not solved by large declarations, nor by large expenditure on its own, but by proper spending. Last but not least, we must also realise that measures are needed to adapt to climate change. In mind, we have both the drought periods of several recent summers and the heavy water pollution in Wallonia. We can argue for a long time whether or not it is a direct impact and whether it is historically normal or abnormal phenomena. I propose that we also pay a great deal of attention to biodiversity. Our forests are natural air conditioning, nature is like a sponge. As a maritime man, I believe that our oceans also have a role to play. Yes, we can . But, we can only together. Finally, I would like to point out that this is a first step. We call on governments to work as quickly as possible on clear agreements and hence internal burden-sharing. I hope that we will work in the same way, as we did in the preparation of this resolution, giving up on hard-learning positions from anyone. I also hope that we will achieve a coherent cross-border climate policy in our country. The biggest threat to our environment is the belief that we can solve the problems with good intentions and high-misses alone. That is why I call once again for all of us to assume our responsibilities, to show decisiveness and to take measures like government, but as well as entrepreneurs and citizens. Ik dank allen die de resolutie zullen steunen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u97	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u98	• 12 – Greet Daems (2200/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u99	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u100	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u101	Karin Jiroflée, Gitta Vanpeborgh.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u102	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Hennuy, who refers to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative proposal before us has already taken a good course in the committee. It's come back a few times. The N-VA is in favour of clearly communicating to the patient how much treatment will cost. It's imperative that our patients know what they're up to. Today is the Day against Cancer and we all wear a yellow ribbon to show our support to our patients. Nothing is worse than getting a serious diagnosis, ruining his whole life and worrying about how much treatment will cost and whether they can be paid. Clarity with regard to the patient is a message that we support. Our group has also taken a number of initiatives to ensure that patients are not surprised when they are being treated. When a patient goes to a conventional physician and is referred to for further examination, he must be guaranteed that the convention will also be respected for the follow-up studies. This is a very important step, because when patients are referred to another doctor by one doctor for example for an anatomopathological examination and those who do not speak for themselves, they need to be clear about how much it will cost and whether it will be guaranteed that the study will be carried out under the convention if there is such a possibility. If this is not the case, if there is no possibility of convention with a healthcare provider referred to by the patient or if the specialist in question is not in agreement, then it is up to that care provider to communicate very clearly with his patient and to make it clear to him that the convention is not guaranteed at the time of referral. We had a number of reservations about the proposal before us for a vote. We have made it very clear in committee and I shall repeat it again. The biggest mistake we can make is leaving vulnerable patients, who are already struggling, in doubt or in doubt through an exhaustive, long list of prices. If that list is drawn up, it will not always be easy as a patient to find out which nomenclature and how many treatments he needs. Some treatments are reimbursed per eight treatments, while others are reimbursed per eighteen. The patient must be able to judge that very clearly. The more vulnerable the patient, the harder it is for him to find out from the list how much it will cost him. I also took the comment on the maximum invoice. By including in the list whether one is eligible for the maximum invoice or not, you can meet part of it, but not always. So we remain concerned that this list, which we symbolically want to make clear to the patient that we are transparent, is no more than a symbol when the healthcare provider's communication is not followed. That is why we have again tabled an amendment in which we make it very clear that the communicating part of the care provider must be guaranteed with the patient at all times, so that the patient is clearly informed. A second remark from our N-VA group concerns the reference to the most common practices. We have tabled an amendment on this subject which I regret you have not adopted. The prices should be stated, it should be clear to the care provider what the government means by the most common benefits in kind. We have proposed that these lists be drawn up together with the professional associations. You have not followed this proposal and we continue to regret it. We have already had a very wide-ranging discussion. The N-VA is absolutely in favour of the spirit of the proposal. We therefore hope that we will be able to vote with you, that you will look at our amendment in detail and that we will be able to introduce it. A patient who only sees a list is, as far as I'm concerned, an insufficiently informed patient. There must be clarity from the care provider for the person sitting in front of him. Unclearness really is the enemy of every sick person who sits in the waiting room.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our health care system must be at the heart of our concerns. I said that earlier on on topical issues. This is what we Socialists repeat with force and conviction. We have always defended its quality as well as its accessibility. The Vooruit proposal is very much in this direction and I would like to thank our colleagues for this excellent and indispensable initiative. This bill is concrete for patients. It's concrete now. A clear display of the main benefits among the different care providers will finally allow the patient to know what to expect when he has to open his wallet and pay for his care. Transparency is paramount. My group has taken many initiatives in this direction. I would like to point out, for example, the introduction of the admission form, the obligation to have clear information on the hospital websites, the obligation also to have in each hospital a contact person from whom the patient can obtain useful and personalized information on the details of the billing that will be applied to him. Transparency is also the obligation for caregivers to clearly inform whether or not they are fully or partially agreed upon. Today, this is another step towards this clarity and transparency by allowing the patient to know in advance what rates will be charged by the care provider whom he wishes to consult through a mandatory display of the most common services. This is another step towards protecting the patient because he often finds himself lost in the face of the cost of some of the usual benefits he needs. And who can say for sure that he knows how much he'll pay tomorrow? Not me anyway! Not often the loved ones I come across, not often the fellow citizens who often have this fear of the bill, to have bad surprises and sometimes financial catastrophes. Failure to know can also lead to dramatic consequences: postponement for fear of necessary care, or even worse, cancellation and abandonment. That is what we must absolutely avoid, ladies and gentlemen! With this text, the patient will first know how much a benefit will cost, how much he will be reimbursed and what supplements, if any; in short, what he will have to pay out of his pocket when crossing the doctor's door. I would also like to say that this text is the result of constructive work among the members of the majority. We have taken the time to seek many opinions from the actors in the field at the various stages of this text. Considerable work has also been done to ensure that this measure is practically feasible. For the patient, this must be easy access to clear and understandable information, and for the provider, this must be an easy-to-undertake action that will not require too much administrative burden. In short, this is a good step forward: coupled with the most recent decisions taken by the General Council of INAMI in the context of the 2022 care budget, it aims to allow a generalisation of the paying third party and will only be beneficial – I am convinced – to all patients. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, health is our most valuable asset, as I said earlier. We repeat it all the time and we will repeat it again. It is a creed for us socialists, with this constant desire to defend our health care system as a whole, its quality, its accessibility and its transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u105	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal, to which Mr Depooster has also referred, has indeed come back a number of times. It also went back and forth several times during a previous legislature. It was already on the table at the time and admitted, I was only a cool lover of it in the previous legislature. This was mainly due to the fear that Mr Depoorter also spoke about with regard to transparency. We all know that the tariff structures are very complex. I remember the example I gave a few years ago, and I found it in my notes: the services of ophthalmology have 1,161 nomenclature numbers, gynecology more than 800. Here's what I was thinking. If all this has to be posted in the waiting room, with all the different tariff structures (repayment, own share, convention status, maximum supplements), then the reverse effect is risked. Such a poster should not ensure that the net becomes less transparent and can deter patients. That is exactly what we want to avoid with this proposal. We all know that there is a clear problem in terms of accessibility and transparency, and that we need to take a lot of measures to improve it. During this legislature, we had a great deal of consultation with colleagues, also on the basis of the opinions, and it turned out that there was a great deal of support for doing so. I believe that there are some significant guarantees in the text that make it possible to take that step. The aim is to develop a model of affiliate, together with the actors in the field, such as the Insurance Committee, where both mutualities and medical representatives are at the table, and always in consultation with the contract committees. With regard to the discussion on current benefits in kind, I assume that this will be worked out in a proper way, also taking into account what are the most common benefits in kind. Benefits can be defined in a waiting room in such a way that no cat understands what it is about. The parties involved in the design of the model will have to ensure that this is done in a simple, clear and understandable way for the patient and that the most common benefits in kind are fairly easily identified in this respect. They are now very easy to consult. From a number of specialists can already be consulted perfectly on websites of different organizations which the patient pays today, which is its own share and what the maximum supplements are. Therefore, it is important that the exercise is done with stakeholders. I also indicated in committee that the sanction could have been more severe for CD&V. I've been clear about that, too. If we go through the process with all the partners and then come to a model, then the agreement must also be met and adequate sanctions must be introduced. However, I am not concerned with sanctioning the proposal. It's about the information. It is important that we take a first step forward here. Are we there? No, we're not. Mrs Depoorter is right when she says that it is not a story of just a poster or putting everything on a website beautifully online. It's a lot more than that. It is the responsibility of many people today, primarily the care provider himself, but also of many actors in the field to provide the information, including by hospitals or social services of hospitals. We know all the actors on the ground. So it's not just a poster story and the case is done. However, this proposal is the proof of the pudding in the eating. We must take that step. We need to look at what this is doing. Today's exercise is a first step, but a first step which deserves our support, especially as it is a first important step in terms of transparency and accessibility. Will an evaluation be necessary? That will certainly be the case. Will we perhaps have to adjust? I suppose so. However, that first step pays enough for us to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u106	Mr President, in the course of 2022, the legislative proposal before us today will require all healthcare providers to pay the rates of their most common care provision in practice and on the website. For the PVDA that is a step forward. We support the bill. If it is good, it must be said, no matter what we do. We support the proposal. This morning I saw a message in a local Facebook group of citizens from my neighborhood from someone who had an appointment with the dermatologist on a particular street, where there was no ban contact. That person asked if anyone knew how much would have to be paid there. It is therefore important to clarify this for patients. Those rates must be known in advance. Mrs Vanpeborgh, you said in committee that it effectively meets the fear of people because they do not know what the cost of care is. This way they won't come up with surprises afterwards. This proposal is therefore an effective intermediate step for us, but it does not alter the problem itself of the often excessive prices for consultation and care services. In my practice I see that people are very aware of the prices of some treatments and therefore postpone a visit to the dentist or general practitioner. The figures on the delay of care for financial reasons are particularly worrying, despite the fact that we are a rich country. Recently, ACV Puls conducted an interrogation with the housekeepers. 80% of them stated that they were delaying medical visits. Only 20% said they wouldn't. One interviewer said that every issue had to be weighed up. Each invoice paid off that person in disks, and he or she didn't have the means to go to the doctor himself. That money was put aside for the moment one of the kids got sick. That is the reality. According to the PVDA, the best and structural solution against this fear of unexpectedly high invoices and delay care is to make the consultations at the GP free. That is why we have a legislative proposal on the table in Parliament. The PVDA and Medicine for the People have not only campaigned for years, but have put that into practice every day. We therefore call for compulsory generalisation of the third-party payment system throughout the first line. Today the lines are moving, because the ban on the third-party payment scheme will soon be lifted. That is a step in the right and right direction towards a more universal approach. However, the problem with this is that the doctor can still decide whether to apply the third-party payment scheme or not. The third-payer scheme means that the person pays only the brake fee and not the part he or she gets back from the sickness fund. Selective measures can be counterproductive because they can lead to stigmatisation, in which patients who are entitled to the third-payer scheme do not dare to go against their doctor if they refuse to apply that system. During the hearings in the Health Committee, among other things on the legislative proposal aimed at allowing patients to be consulted by the general practitioner without money, the excessive arbitrariness was charged when the doctor decides whether or not to apply the scheme. By generalising the third-payer scheme, arbitrariness and stigmatisation are avoided. I would like to quote from yesterday's press release of the Flemish Patient Platform: "In the next step we would like to see the third-payer scheme applied automatically in the Flemish Patient Platform. It is now up to every healthcare provider to decide whether or not to apply the third-payer scheme. Patients will therefore have to ask for the system to be applied. That creates another threshold. An automatic scheme would really increase the financial accessibility of healthcare." In any case, the Belgian Anti-Poverty Network advised poster ring. I quote: 'As long as the generalisation of the third-payer scheme for all medical benefits in the first line is not a reality on the ground, and since covenanting is not mandatory, we propose that all caregivers be obliged to inform patients about whether or not to apply the third-payer scheme.' We have tabled this recommendation as an amendment to the text in committee, so that not only the rates but also the application or not of the third-party payment scheme would be defined. But you pointed out that this made the bill more complex and that the discussion should remain separate. I disagree. Even if the lifting of the ban on the third-payer scheme is a positive step, without an obligation to the third-payer scheme there is room for greater arbitrariness and confusion among patients. It is perfectly feasible to include in the poster model whether the doctor applies the third-payer scheme or not. For us, that is the same discussion. Minister, you also said in the Standard of 18 October that you would like to examine whether an extension of compulsory application would be desirable. So we also see things moving in this area, and that is what we consider to be very positive. Nevertheless, the issue of the Network against Poverty is clear: as long as the third party payment scheme is not generally mandatory, we believe that it is necessary for the doctor to show whether he applies the scheme or not. That is why we are again tabling our amendment today, and we hope that we will be followed, which we think is a logical addition. It is very important for the patient to know whether the third-payer scheme will be applied or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u107	First of all, I would like to thank all my fellow Members for the enriching debates in committee and again today. The arguments put forward here are important and deserve an answer. I'm going back in time. When I became a Member of Parliament less than a year ago, this proposal was one of the first to end up on my desk and I wondered how it was possible that such a text had never been adopted, while it seemed natural to me that all healthcare providers should give clarity about their convention status and the rates they apply to patients. At that time, I took the 11 amendments at hand. They were very educational. In this way one learns where the bottlenecks are: at one doctor's syndicate and at other organizations. On this basis, the majority tabled a number of amendments, which we explained in committee. When discussing them, we also promised to submit them to various bodies for advice in order to check whether we were right. That's what we did. We received eleven opinions in the second round of opinions, all of which were positive, with the exception of the advice of one medical syndicate, in particular BVAS ABSyM. It was mainly about technical corrections. That can and must be said. Here and there there were also some reservations and suggestions. I would like to repeat them, because they are also reflected in some of the reservations expressed by previous speakers. Some said the bill is good, but it doesn't solve everything. It is true that complementary actions are needed. I also stressed this in committee, Mrs Depoorter. We work one step at a time and the story is not over yet. I also pointed out in committee the importance of a public campaign, which must finally be put in place to inform the public about convention status. We use that word here, but that is not always evident in the world outside. Mrs. Depoorter, you also complained that the hospital bills are still not transparent. Indeed, we do not solve this problem; we must continue with it. I firmly believe that we should make the public health guide. We also need to make people aware of their rights. In 2022, the law on patients' rights exists for 20 years. This is an excellent time to strengthen patients' rights. It must be made clear to people that there is not only the third-payer scheme, but that many other statutes can also bring about a reduction in the cost of care. I would also like to return to a comment from you, Mrs Muylle and Mr Creyelman, that the fine should have been a little more. It was raised in the original proposal from EUR 125 to EUR 1,000. We have been palavering on this for a long time, but ultimately we have decided to keep the fine at EUR 125. Healthcare providers will have to post their rates and convention status online or in the waiting room, which will allow visual inspection for the first time. At the same time, they will be punished for the supplements they dare to ask for. Moreover, the fine can always be increased in the future. As requested in an opinion, we have excluded pharmacists from the scheme. They will be refunded through the RIZIV and they will also have to label you there at least one point, and that will be thoroughly checked. This strengthens me in the belief that control should also be possible in this case, both by the Economic Inspectorate and by the Medical Evaluation and Control Service of the RIZIV. We have discussed this poster model for a long time, whether it is up to us to determine the definition of the most common provision and to say what the list should look like. We discussed this with the professional groups, and in the end it was very clear that we had to leave it to them. In fact, all these professions are represented in the RIZIV agreement committees, and I am confident that they will be able to state with knowledge what is the most common provision and to develop a readable model. I already said we should give them the time they need. If the bill is approved, we should ask the Minister to ask all these agreement committees to do their job and develop such a poster model. We must give them a reasonable period of time. At the moment, I am thinking of a year, but we need to evaluate it halfway and take stock of it to see if it works and where it needs to be adjusted. That is also a very important point. I would like to return briefly to the comments made here by my fellow Members. I'll start with you, Mrs Merckx. You said it was good, a step forward, but that these care costs remain a concern. I share your opinion. There is the budget for health care approved by the RIZIV, 45 million for dental care, and the commitment of dental hygienists, who are now finally recognized and able to relieve the work of the dentists. There is also the maximum invoice, where the threshold is reduced to EUR 250 for vulnerable families. You say that this is not enough and Mrs Depoorter asks what is being done for families who are just outside. This obviously shows where the differences are, but it is good that something happens. Mrs Depoorter, I am chairman of a special committee in my home town, and there too people can seek financial support for care, even if they do not have the status of vulnerable family or individual. Efforts are therefore being made. Which brings me to the third-payer system. In committee, I proposed not to include it now, because it makes things even more complex. In fact, I have just heard arguments not to include the third-payer system now. The discussion on this subject has not yet been fully clarified, although fortunately there is movement in the matter. You know our position. We are certainly in favour of a compulsory third-payer scheme for children and young adults. In the hearings, however, this position was broadly consensual. However, we are not quite clear yet, which is precisely the argument to conduct the discussion on this issue separately. With the movement that is coming, it is worth looking at that separately. Earlier this afternoon, I questioned Minister Kitir. We can come up with a lot of legislative proposals here, but we need to check whether they are being monitored. Monitoring and follow-up is also very important for the third-payer scheme. If we see that it does not work out as we expect, we can and must assume our responsibilities and adjust them. Mrs Muylle, to what you said about the sanction, I have already said that it could be more powerful. Mrs Depoorter, I now come to your comments. Majority or opposition, I think it's important that we listen to each other and learn from it. You had three concerns. Your first concern is the communication with the patients. You're right to say that a poster doesn't solve everything. I share your concern. In principle, it is assumed that all health care providers will inform. In that respect, I would like to reassure you. It has nothing to do with your amendment, but two days ago I happened to receive justice in my mailbox from the Court of Cassation, fresh from the press, dating from 6 September 2021, against the vzw Emmaüs. The judge makes it very clear that the care provider must, on his own initiative, inform the patient about the financial consequences of a provision, with right and reason. That statement, together with our proposal, renders that amendment superfluous in substance. I believe in it and it has also been so exhorted at the Court of Cassation, there is clearly a great sense of responsibility among the caregivers. The legislative proposal, the amendments and the sub-amendments we have written have been reviewed ten times by various advisory bodies. I was sometimes amazed by those advices, but they were important. A number of times, for example, we were struck by the RIZIV because we did not use the correct legal terminology. That too is important. It is not that I do not share your concern, but I do not accept this amendment because it is not written on the basis of an opinion and it has not been submitted for opinion. I now know from experience that this is very important. I have answered all the comments and reservations. I did that with a lot of respect, because you learn a lot from it. I would like to end by thanking all the people who participated in it, including all those who participated in the debate in committee. That has enriched me as a newcomer incredibly. It's made me smarter, and it's convinced me even more, Mrs. Depoorter, that this is not an end point. It is a starting point, a first step forward, and we must continue with it. I therefore hope that all parties will eventually approve this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group fully shares the aim of this bill, namely to improve the transparency of medical tariffs. Unfortunately, however, the proposed approach does not seem convincing enough. I'll explain it to myself. Our colleagues in Vooruit are, of course, quite right to be concerned that many doctors do not comply with their obligation to indicate their status as contract workers. I also believe that too many patients do not understand what this treaty status means and what it means for their wallets. If we could start by enforcing existing obligations, adopting teaching language and giving priority to dialogue with the patient, that would be a very good thing. However, moving to a price display seems to us more complex. This information is already available from the mutual societies or on the official INAMI website. The complexity of the tariffs is thus such that the display information may be distorted, for example depending on whether or not a preferential tariff is available; not to mention the impact of the overall medical record, or of a possible route of care. Summarizing all this on a poster, in a waiting room, without more explanations, without a reading grid, seems to us ineffective. I understand that the authors of the proposal are referring here to the most common services, and therefore to an understandable display, but without specifying them. Therefore, expectations should not be created in the care of patients that could not be fully met for all. Some arguments leave me puzzled. I quote an excerpt from the report, in which Mrs Jiroflée explained, in any case, with regard to the most common benefits, since this is what this is about: "Their display could partly dispel the patient's fear of receiving a high bill; this fear leading to under-consumption of health care." I would like to repeat this argument because if the patient is already in the waiting room of his doctor, it means that he has already decided to seek treatment, which makes us think that the information should rather come upstream, to stimulate consultation. In addition, there is also a cost of downstream treatment, unknown at this stage in the waiting room, so that a frank and transparent dialogue with the doctor is more logically required. Finally, I share other reservations that have been expressed by some colleagues, such as fee supplements, which now penalize patients. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we do not wish to compromise the approach taken by a negative vote when we are not sufficiently convinced to express a positive vote, and we therefore consider abstaining to be the most appropriate vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u109	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u110	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (346/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (346/7) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u111	• 13 – Sofie Merckx (346/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u112	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u113	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u114	- 1022: Melissa Depraetere, Patrick Prévot, Christophe Lacroix, Kris Verduyckt, Albert Vicaire, Dieter Vanbesien, Leen Dierick, Florence Reuter, Jasper Pillen, Egbert Lachaert - 1737: Anneleen Van Bossuyt, Katrien Houtmeyers, Michael Freilich.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u115	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Van Bossuyt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u116	Mr President, I refer to my written report. However, I will make my statement. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for an interpretative law deals with a problem which, unfortunately, affects more and more people. More and more people are confronted with damage in their homes due to the sound of the soil. This is a ground-breaking effect due to the persistent drought, resulting in houses starting to rip. The damage to repair that often goes up to the tens of thousands of euros. There is insurance for this damage, in particular fire insurance. In 2005, the law was extended, which also covers natural disasters and, more specifically, landslides and soil degradations by fire insurance. However, many insurers do not want to intervene in the damage caused by the persistent drought and the incoherence of the soil to the houses. According to them, this is not covered by fire insurance. According to them, a soil degradation would not correspond to a natural disaster. This is unjustified because, when preparing for the amendment of the fire insurance law of 2005, it was clearly stated that the legislator's intention was to provide people with the widest possible coverage. That is why we have put forward a proposal for an interpretative law to clarify the possible ambiguity, which some people believe was, by providing that the damage to housing caused by the impact of the continuous drought on the soil is covered by fire insurance. Why did we choose an interpretative law? Because it can also cover the damage caused since 2005 by the persistent drought and not just future damage. If a new law were made, it would of course only apply to future damage and not to existing damage. The Secretary of State for Consumer Protection took a different view on this. She said she wanted to work on legislation, but only on future damage. That is why we are putting a proposal of interpretative law on the table. There was also a proposal of interpretative law from the majority, signed by a large proportion of the majority. The Open Vld Group did not sign it, just because it could only be future damage for the applicants. To ensure the legality of our proposal, we have requested an opinion from the Council of State. That opinion clearly indicated that it was indeed the legislator's intention to provide that broad coverage, after which the Open Vld Group also turned its back on this issue and could not do more than agree with the proposal of interpretive law to deal with it. There were therefore two proposals of interpretative law in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the one hand a proposal by the majority, which the Open Group finally signed, and on the other hand our proposal. The question then arose as to what text would then be worked on, on which we made the constructive proposal to contribute to the signing of the majority proposal. But apparently political games are more important than being able to signal that we are pulling the cart together from the Chamber, which we have always done so far with the same interest in mind. Apparently, it was a big problem that we would be signing off on. I remember very well the new political culture announced by Prime Minister De Croo and then group leader of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance Kristof Calvo. This government would be distinguished by the new political culture, but when it comes to it that does not seem to be the case. Mr Depraetere, I have not been able to see but I have heard that last week, during the State of the Union and its discussion, you too spoke of the words 'new political culture', but when it comes to applying it, I do not seem to be able to do so, which I very much regret. We have always taken a very constructive stance here. In committee, too, we are never too bad to vote in favour of proposals from anyone if we can support them. Apparently, that's not possible. I deeply regret that. We do not want to play political games. For us, it is particularly important that the consumer is given the protection he is entitled to. The damage to their home caused by the sounding of the soil due to persistent drought must therefore be effectively reimbursed by the insurer. The N-VA Group will therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of the proposal for an interpretative law before us today is, of course, a problem that is increasingly affecting people. After all, the homes of many citizens in Flanders that burst were built on clay soil, whereas in recent years or in the past they had to undergo certain periods of drought. It is bad to note that insurance companies refuse to cover that damage, leaving those owners with a peppered invoice, because insurers hide behind uncertainties in the law. This leads to social tragedies among families and so on. This is often about areas in West and East Flanders, but also some parts of Flemish Brabant. The houses are built there on clay soil that is susceptible to long droughts. This clay swells in particularly wet periods, but shrinks again when there is a prolonged drought. That land can eventually sink and cause damage to the houses built on it. According to the current legislation of 2014, insurers should already be obliged to effectively compensate for that damage to those homes. Colleagues, it is mainly a punishment that the current legislation of 2014 already obliges insurers to compensate for the damage to the homes. However, we see that some insurers are hiding behind the interpretation of the law, which is, of course, extremely regrettable. They wrongly claim that the law applies only to house damage caused by earthquakes or landslides. As a result, they escape their obligations. It is therefore a pity that today we have to adopt a proposal for an interpretative law in order to make it clear once again. I think to myself that an insurance policy is being taken out in the hope that they never need it. However, when someone eventually needs them, he or she should also be able to count on that insurance. For a long time the ministers of the various levels, both Flemish and federal, have been asking who should solve this problem as a hot potato. In recent years, my colleagues in the Flemish Parliament have regularly shook off the question of taking responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, for us it is not a question of who is allowed to put the hat on, it is especially important for us to cooperate and adopt the legislative proposal, as was done unanimously in committee. We are all here to ensure a better society and, among other things, to ensure that the population is not put in the way of an insurer when faced with such a problem. When the law is passed here today, it is in fact a merit for all of us. The bill won't come too soon. We are also pleased that it can be approved here today. You can, of course, count on our support here today, as in committee. However, I would like to warn the insurers at the same time. It is now possible that insurance companies have been hiding behind the legislation. However, after this proposal has been adopted, it cannot be expected that they will immediately rub their hands and make insurance premiums and so on because they expect more damage in the future. If that is the case, they will run into our hand in advance, because this would simply be scandalous. In fact, according to the current legislation, they had to pay out the claims files. It would then be cheap to adapt these insurance premiums in the future under the legislation that is being adopted today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me be very clear: my group, and I personally too, are pleased that there is a settlement here today, especially in order to compensate the many victims who have been severely affected. It's true that the file has a long history. Mr Van Lommel also referred to it. Many people have been working on it, including me in the government as Minister of Economy. It was never intended to pass the hot potato. Within legislative frameworks, we have looked for what was possible. I remember having a number of situations in the cabinet in 2020 about victims in South West Flanders and not to mention in Hainaut, Mouscroen and Tournai with lots of clay soils. Within the rules, we then looked at what could be done. Very quickly we came to the law of 2005. From the ombudsdienst Verzekeringen we immediately received the reaction that it was not actually applicable. I will come back to that later. We then went to see if there were possibilities through the Rampen Fund, because it is about general drought. However, the Federal Rampen Fund was transferred to the Regions after the last state reform. There was then a debate in the Flemish Parliament. It was then considered whether it could fall under the scope of the Rampen Fund. However, that was not the case. So the issue has returned to the federal level. I am glad that there is a solution here today. I remember that the ombudsdienst also pointed out the complexity in 2020. The arguments for this have already been raised today. As so often in insurance matters, one wondered whether there was a link between cause and damage. It was even claimed at that time that the shrinking of the soil was not a subsidence and that the shrinkage of the whole subsurface is not a movement of an important mass of the soil layers, as required by law. Some insurers even said it had nothing to do with drought. In the meantime, I have also received reactions and the proposal is not satisfactory. But, colleagues, we're not here to please the insurance companies. We are here to ensure that the 2005 legislation is applied effectively. I was a little involved at the time, and I answered that as well. Few of us know that, but I have a history in the insurance sector. I did fire insurance, among other things. I remember that discussion at the beginning of 2000 on the extension of the policy to include natural disasters. At that time there was a very clear intention to go very broad. It has always been the intention of the legislator to do so. So what is before us today is what was rightfully meant in 2005. We are doing the same thing today with the interpretative law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u119	I think it is important to find a solution, not only towards the future, but also with regard to the past. People have paid contributions and have assumed that they will be compensated for the damage suffered. What is before us today is a work of many. I would also like to thank Mr Dierick, who has followed the dossier for us in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I would also like to thank all the initiators of the various proposals. Sometimes a Pano reportage is needed to get things moving. It is a pity that this has to come first in public opinion, because before the problem was not big enough or there were not enough victims. Bringing the problem out here has helped to find a basis for support. I would like to thank all my fellow Members who have played a role, because what is ahead is what was already intended in 2005, namely to compensate people when they have damage, within the framework of the 2005 law. I am very pleased that a solution is being reached today, which our group is very happy to support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you have already outlined the problems of drought and soil degradation. I will not repeat the various elements, but I would like to return to the 2005 law. Mrs. Muylle, you remember her. I didn't, because I wasn't active at the time. But I did read back the reports from that time when this proposal was being drafted. They are all still available on the website of the Chamber. That is very useful, because these reports literally show that it was indeed the intention of the legislator to help and protect people who are confronted with this. This was the clear mandate given by the legislator to insurers in 2005: protect people who are faced with the consequences of natural phenomena; protect them as widely as possible, and ensure that they do not pay for the damage, which sometimes amounts to tens of thousands of euros. I have known people who have suffered even more than EUR 100 000 damage. Then it's about huge amounts of money. Those who read that report from 16 years ago will see that there was also discussion at that time about the exact way in which this had to be formulated in the law and how broad the interpretation could be. At some point in the debate it was then proposed to give room to the insurers, to the free market, because the intention of the law was clear and it would be okay. Now, 16 years later, we have to say that it did not work out and that a lot of people have now fallen victim to it. Of course, 16 years ago there was much less drought than today. Of course, that's part of the game. In any case, it is clear that it has always been the intention to protect people from this. I believe that this proposal of interpretative law - which is not often before us - is a typical example of how we can regulate it. The Council of State has also made this very clear, as Mr Van Bossuyt has already pointed out. The text has also been adapted to all the comments made by the Council of State. They have also been explained in committee. The most important thing we do is just close the back door and make sure those people are protected again. The advantage is that it goes back in time. It applies not only to people who face it now or in the future, but also to everyone who has had to deal with it in recent years. I think that is a very important principle. That law was passed 16 years ago with a purpose, but the insurers found a loophole on day one not to do what they were asked to do. Then there are two things that can be done in Parliament, I believe. Either we can forget that behavior of those 16 years, where they have done everything they can not help people, for a moment and focus on the future or we can make sure that everyone who has long been entitled to it can finally rely on it. The Chamber makes the right choice to do so. The proposal was unanimously adopted in committee and I would like to thank all my fellow Members for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u121	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u122	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1022/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1022/5) The bill has two articles. The bill has 2 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u123	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u124	The interplay of Mr Boukili lapses because of force majeure. I give the floor to Mrs Matz for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u125	Madam President, Minister, I am going back to the issue of flood management in the region of Liège. These terrible floods cost the lives of dozens of people and plunged thousands of people into deep distress. I live in this area and have regular contacts with associations, victims, volunteers. There is no longer much hope, the winter is almost there and many families live in unworthy conditions of a state of duty. There's no hot water, there's no heating, we barely know how to cook. The highest priority remains assistance to the victims. You announced that the federal support cell would be lifted in mid-November. We don't know how long Defence will be there. Much work remains to ensure that disaster victims can spend the winter in dignified conditions. This is the top priority of all the governments in this country, regardless of the distribution of competences, which does not count on the ground! If the top priority is to help those affected, there are still questions that are not answered. The question was raised as to whether the victims were interested in a parliamentary committee of inquiry. That's not what they want. What they want is answers to what really happened. There are not only families bereaved by the loss of a loved one, but also as I have often said, all those families that have not lost a loved one but are nevertheless bereaved after seeing a whole life swept away in a few moments. To move forward, you have to understand. These families must, as in mourning, understand what has happened and not have the impression that they either reject the ball or remain their arms swinging, fatalistic, saying that they could not do anything because of the power of the waves or the abnormal amounts of precipitation, nothing could be done to prevent but also to help. We cannot be satisfied with that answer. Other political groups have said this: answers are absolutely necessary. The Walloon Region has assumed its responsibilities and set up a commission of inquiry and conducts hearings every Friday, until the end of January, to arrive at a series of recommendations. I know you're going to answer that you, for your part, have begun to evaluate certain things, commissioned studies for Civil Protection or set up working and think tanks. However, I think it is important for everyone to really know what happened. As such, an important part of the file, which I believe has been absent from our discussions and which is the subject of this inquiry, is the analysis report on the management of waterways commissioned by the Walloon Region, mainly on the issue of dams and land-use planning. The report also contains some 20 pages on federal jurisdiction and raises a series of questions. There seems to me to be one more element on which we must examine and draw conclusions. I note three main issues. The first concerns the communication and implementation of the evacuation orders issued by the governor of the province of Liège on 14 and 15 July. In a previous sitting, you replied that these orders were of course binding. Therefore, the first question that arises - as several mayors have pointed out - is "How was it known about these decrees?" It has sometimes fallen into the dark box of a communal administration that was not raised. A telephone call or a physical presence was not used to ensure that these orders were properly received or executed. That remains an unanswered question. If the governor of the province of Liège is obviously the author of these decrees and therefore, with his services, had to ensure that they were received and executed, he is in this capacity your representative in this mission. It's a deconcentrated organ of you. It is as if you are actually acting that these evacuation orders can be taken, known and, above all, executed. We know that this has not been the case. Some mayors have taken initiatives themselves, others have not been aware of this imperative coming from the province. We clearly ask that you be able to assess the governor's mission in crisis management on this very specific but crucial aspect because if, indeed, the areas had been evacuated, there would probably have been fewer deaths or no deaths at all. The second issue that this report raises is the issue of dams and why they are not included in the list of critical infrastructure set out in the Act of 1 July 2011 on the safety and protection of critical infrastructure. This law requires the National Crisis Centre to update this listing. Dams were not part of this critical infrastructure. Why? The third point raised in this report is the impossibility of establishing a strategic and operational command post during the floods, while the Royal Decree of 22 May 2019 provides for its establishment in the event of a crisis. I am thinking in particular of the issue of attacks. Here, we are in emergency planning and we continue to ask ourselves: why was this operational command, this pilot on the plane, not put in place despite all the reports, all the hearings, all the testimony of the field workers? They all say the same thing: basically, everyone took their part like that without knowing very well what another department was doing or coordinating with another department because they acted in the emergency. And we can't blame them. But why has there not been the setting up of this moment which is important? I'll be told that we have to legislate! No, I don't! The legal texts exist and therefore there is no need to legislate. I would like your opinion on the above-mentioned report of the Walloon Region, to know your role in the implementation of the evacuation orders, since the Governor probably did not act with the necessary diligence when he was, as such, your representative body. Why are dams not part of critical infrastructure? Why has an operational command unit not been set up at the flood site? How do you plan to address the gaps? As other members have said, is it not time to set up a commission that would be long-term, not in the circumstances, and that would provide answers to the victims? That's the least we can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u126	Madam President, both the Walloon Parliament and the Walloon Government take matters into their hands and take the first steps to learn from the crisis. There was the establishment of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry in the Walloon Parliament and an independent study was ordered by the Walloon Government. We too must take the necessary steps to learn from the disaster. That is our moral duty. The report not only contains a lot of interesting things for the Walloon Region, but also a lot of federal aspects. The civil inquiry conducted by the independent experts has struck me very hard. For example, it was said by many citizens that there was a major contradiction as well as a lack of reliable information and answers from the government. It doesn't specify which government it's about. It is mainly about non-compliance with promises, which caused frustration and loss of time, because people themselves could not take initiatives. There is also unhealthy competition between different forms of aid. Another element that is very acute is that some victims are still in shock today, in a state of great amazement or sidération and still do not understand what has happened to them. They want to know how such a disaster was possible and what lessons are being drawn. We look at the findings in the report that are interesting for the federal level. First of all, it appears that the risk assessment, both by local authorities and by citizens, was inadequate. If citizens look at maps, they assume that whoever lives in a green zone is safe. But for a green coloured zone, there is a fairly weak risk of flooding, which does not mean that there is no risk. So everything starts with sufficient risk identification and when communicating about risks. We really need to actively communicate to the public the risks they may face. The report also notes that emergency planning was very heterogeneous both between the provinces and between the municipalities of the different provinces. Multidisciplinary exercises were never organized and the aspect of evacuation was not sufficiently addressed. The communication to the population was at least flawed, there were unreliable answers, some information was not communicated and the information was sometimes wrong or very different. There was also a lack of coordination of aid both during the acute crisis and afterwards. Everyone has seen solidarity in practice with the actions of the Red Cross and all kinds of initiatives, but there was almost no coordination. In fact, the regional crisis centre only played the role of letterbox. I have requested the documents of crisis management and you have provided me with the reports of the various meetings. In that I see that you have suggested several times that, if the need arose, the federal phase should be announced. Each time that proposal was answered in the negative. But on Thursday afternoon you decide to do so. A COFECO meeting will take place at 4.30 p.m., where the director of the Crisis Centre reports that the federal phase is being activated, "mais néanmoins la manière de travailler avec les provinces impactées ne changeera pas. The role of the federal government remains that of logistical assistance and it organizes the callcenter 1771." I wonder how that's possible. In my view, the proclamation of the federal phase is a justified decision. That's how you took responsibility. At the same time, you tell the provinces that nothing changes and that they can continue. What about the coordination of aid? What about the start-up of aftercare? I thought there was a lot of work. Niet alleen ik vind dat vreemd, een governor vraagt zelfs: "What is the legal validity of decisions taken by the CC-PROV in the federal phase? Do we have to go through the Crisis Centre every time to validate our decisions?" That question won't be answered. Unclearness is a trump card. It's time we learned lessons and started organizing things. You have already announced the setting up of a learning committee. I have absolutely no problem with that. I think that is a good thing. You have said that it must do a thorough job and that several partners will be involved. But Parliament too has a role to play, Madam Minister. The people felt abandoned. It is high time that we did something in Parliament and that we did not abandon them again. Madam Secretary, have you taken note of the report? What actions will you take on the federal level? How are we getting on with the call for tenders from your learning board? When will it be? When can we expect results? How do you view the role of regional crisis centres? We have also seen a complete lack of harmony between the provincial governors, your Commissioners on the ground. There's a big difference in risk culture. How do you look at that? What actions will you take to remedy this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, I have read the report that has been made and it will be carefully analysed in the coming days by the Crisis Centre. It will be analysed in detail to determine what actions will need to be taken. It is, however, important to stress that this is only the first part of the report. We announced a second part. It is also important to wait until the second stage before deciding on all the details and actions. In my view, it is also important to wait for the work of the committee of inquiry in the Walloon Parliament before taking a decision. In addition, most of the report refers to the competences of the regions. I will confine myself here to the questions you have asked about the federal aspects. First of all, I want to point out that we are here for the victims, for the federal jurisdictions and services. We're staying here. There's a deadline for the CAF. We agreed on the date of November 15, but we will assess whether it is still necessary to extend the CAF and, if so, we will. In the event of the disappearance of the CAF, in terms of entities, organisation or structures, assistance can always be provided through civil protection. We are not going to disappear with all federal services, in case the CAF is determined. We will consult with all stakeholders, as well as with the Walloon government and its services. It's not about leaving too soon. As you know, and we have already had the opportunity to discuss this on several occasions, the management of an emergency is taking place in several phases. During this crisis, too, we experienced these different phases. The communal phases were, first of all, launched. The provincial phases then intervened. They were launched on 14 July by the governors of Liège, Namur and Luxembourg. On 15 July, at the end of the morning, the governors of Walloon Brabant and Hainaut launched them. As the 2019 Royal Order provides, in a provincial phase, the governor is responsible for strategic coordination. For this purpose, he is assisted by a Coordinating Committee, which he chairs. However, it should be noted that even in a provincial phase, in accordance with the regulatory framework, the mayors involved in the province support the governor's strategic coordination in the territory through the implementation of the decisions he has taken and through the necessary complementary decisions, in consultation with him. The same pattern is followed at the federal stage. It is the governor who ensures strategic coordination, but it is the mayors who apply the decisions on the ground. As part of a provincial phase, pending the decisions of the governors, the mayors may take the necessary interim measures to limit the consequences of the emergency, immediately informing the governor of their province. As noted, even after the start of the provincial phase, some municipalities initiated a communal phase. There are interactions between the two. You are already aware of the reports and everything that was done on 14 and 15 July 2021 at the federal level. On 15 July 2021 at 2.30 p.m., it was decided to take over strategic coordination at the federal level to ensure follow-up. I have already explained the reasons for this decision, due to the fact that several provinces were affected and that there were several victims. To ensure strategic coordination, this decision has been taken at the federal level. Prior to that, several meetings had been held with the governors, who had confirmed that they still had control over the situation. The analysis was done and, given the magnitude of the crisis and the upcoming weather predictions of 15 and 16 July, it was decided to trigger the federal phase. As I have just explained for the provincial phase, in a federal phase, it is the governors concerned with the mayors who support the strategic coordination of the Minister of the Interior in their territory through the implementation of the Minister's decisions and through the taking of complementary decisions that are necessary in consultation with the Minister. This is stipulated in Article 28 of the Royal Decree of 22 May 2019. Here too, the governors are concerned. Mrs Matz, Mrs Ingels, you referred to the Codeco report, according to which governors wondered whether we should always go through the federal level. Some decisions are an implementation of the decisions taken by the Crisis Centre and myself. So if they execute them, you don't have to go through the federal. If these are complementary decisions, it is up to them to motivate and formalise them. This is the current practice based on the regulatory framework for crisis management. In a federal phase, the COFECO Federal Management Unit was set up with the governors who are responsible for preparing and coordinating the implementation of strategic decisions to deal with the crisis. The expert evaluation unit advised COFECO. The governors of the affected areas were surrounded by their provincial crisis cells because they had to implement the decisions taken at the federal level. Again, crisis structures due to the outbreak of the provincial phases have been maintained. Governors could take advantage of the presence of their own provincial crisis cells to implement decisions. The same applies to the mayors. With regard to evacuations, some mayors took evacuation decisions before the federal phase, already launched on 13 or 14. You may recall that the governor of the province of Luxembourg also made a decision to evacuate the youth camps. It was already done before the federal phase. The governor of the province of Liège also took a decision to evacuate on 14 July, also before the start of the federal phase. This decree of the governor of the province of Liège of 14 July clearly provides that the decision would be broadcast by the provincial through various channels, namely the mayors of certain communes such as Baelen, Chaudfontaine, Eupen, Limburg, Pepinster, Trooz and Verviers. There was also communication through police areas and the federal police, regional and provincial entities and the Crisis Centre. The Governor made this decision, this provincial order, and then it was communicated through these channels. Like you said, it's binding. The municipal authorities and the police were responsible for enforcing the order, to the extent possible. We know very well that it is not because we take a arrest that people are informed. We need systems to inform people. In the organisation of crisis management we are experiencing today, it is up to the local authorities to specify how these actions have been carried out or will have to be carried out on the ground. It is up to them, who are close to the ground, to make the implementing decisions. We know the alarm systems we used before. We decided to abandon them because of their cost. Now, for example, we use the BE-Alert system. In my view, there is one point to be worked on in the Federal Learning Commission: how can we improve the implementation of these evacuation orders? It is true that if people do not have a normal means of communication, they will not read through their e-mails! I understand that. But we've been working with well-known systems. If it is necessary to change, there are ways to optimize the alert and evacuation system, which will be analyzed within the Federal Learning Commission. When the federal phase was launched, instructions were again given for preventive evacuations after it was triggered. For example, the governor of Limburg was able to announce preventive evacuations, while water had not yet invaded all the communes. Federal ownership led to this decision. To your second question, how is the list of infrastructure achieved, I can answer that it falls under the 2011 Critical Infrastructure Safety and Protection Act. Its scope is limited to the energy, transport, finance, health, drinking water, digital infrastructure and electronic communication sectors. Within the framework of this Act, the National Crisis Centre has a coordinating and advisory role to the sectoral authorities. However, it is the responsibility of the latter to identify the national and European infrastructures within their competence on the basis of analysis and criteria. The legislative and policy framework for critical infrastructure is currently undergoing some changes at European level. A new directive, the critical entities resilience directive, will replace the European Critical Infrastructure Directive. This new directive will also lead to a new identification process. Within the framework of this Directive, the specific approach – focusing on risks of human origin – of the current legislation on critical infrastructure will be extended to an all-hazards approach. This is a question that can be asked about dams. This will have to lead to the introduction of resilience measures in relation to various risks within critical entities. The purpose of the Directive is to ensure the continuity of vital services so that the entities concerned can continue to perform their basic functions optimally. Skills are not transferred, it is simply the legal framework for critical infrastructure. You also asked how coordination was organized in the field. We talked about the Dir-PC-Ops that could be hired. In emergency situations, operational coordination or strategic coordination or combination of both may be possible. In the presence of several competent operators in the field, operational coordination is necessary. At that time, it was decided that an operational command post (PC-Ops) should or should not be established in the field. This operational decision is assessed in consultation by the intervention services involved in the field, depending on the nature of the situation. In the event of the initiation of a phase, multidisciplinary coordination shall also take place within the coordination committee of the competent authority. Therefore, the absence of a PC-Ops does not necessarily imply lack of coordination. Under the current regulations, our first task is coordination and facilitation in the context of the July floods, in several meetings, even before the start of the federal phase where, as you know, the Crisis Centre had already held follow-up meetings with the governors. On these occasions, he has repeatedly asked the governors, including that of the province of Liège, to indicate their needs. At that time, the message passed, and it was then up to the Governor to decide whether or not it is operationally necessary to use Dir-PC-Ops or PC-Ops. In any event, I am constantly stressing the importance of assessing crisis management. Today, as we are used to doing, an evaluation will be carried out under the leadership of the Crisis Centre, in close collaboration with all partners involved in strategic coordination. The aim is to highlight the lessons to be learned. Governors will also be invited, along with their provincial crisis cell, to take a critical look at the management of this crisis, including the management of provincial phases, evacuation orders and operational decisions they have taken in relation to the PC-Ops. It is logical and obvious that contingency plans will need to be adapted to incorporate lessons learned. Furthermore, as you know, we are going to launch a learning commission. Mrs Ingels, you also referred to the role of regional crisis centres and their interaction. It is certainly true, even in a crisis as we knew it in July, that not only the federal state is involved in the whole chain approach, the Länder also have an important role to play. They also have a special expertise in this field, which is already being used for crisis management today. It seems to me that their input and expertise are important at all stages of crisis management, from information on prevention and follow-up to aftercare. I do not want to anticipate the lessons to be learned from this, but it seems to me that formalising cooperation between the Länder and the crisis centre is important, precisely for the sake of information exchange and integration. As you may know, discussions have already taken place in the past with the prime ministers of the state governments to achieve this. In addition to the more inter-departmental nature of the crisis centre, we certainly need to strengthen its inter-federal character. In view of the timing, I am not going to go into full detail, but as far as information is concerned, you know that as far as municipal and provincial crisis plans are concerned, we are preparing ANIPs and GNIs for emergency planning or crisis planning. They are supplemented or not after certain practical multidisciplinary exercises that are sometimes done to test emergency planning. It is up to the governors to decide the risks for which they take a BNIP, a Special Emergency and Intervention Plan. There are governors who did that for floods, and there are those who didn't. The latter does not always mean that people are not prepared, because of course floods can also be included in the ANIP. In this way, emergency situations can be managed as effectively as possible. It also seems logical to me that we will update these plans with the information we now have, to integrate the lessons learned into them. I wanted to give you an overview of a number of multidisciplinary emergency planning exercises from the past. In Flemish Brabant this happened in 2019 and in East Flanders and Antwerp in 2018. In Limburg one was planned in 2020, but Corona could not do so. In Liège there have been floods in 2016 and 2018 and those plans have therefore also been adapted to the reallife situation that has occurred there. Optimizing this further is certainly a work in progress. Of course, that's not all. As you know, the Crisis Centre also organises explanations for local authorities. At least two sessions will be scheduled in 2022 to inform new directors, new mayors of the legislation on emergency plans, of the different risks and, where appropriate, of the need to draw up or update such plans for their territory. That's definitely something that's happening. It is not because we do not sum it up in a large committee that we do not take the experience we have. It is our responsibility to improve or update this. Mrs Matz, with regard to your two specific questions about the fact that the governors had said that it was the same way of working, I have to re-read the text of the Crisis Centre report, but I do not have it here. It may be related to the fact that the Crisis Center was consulting with the governors as if there were a federal phase. In the absence of coordination, regular consultations, including bilaterally, between the Crisis Centre and the Governors took place on 14 July. The same way of working may relate to the number of meetings and the contacts there were. I'll check it out. I have just said something about whether or not to pass the Crisis Centre. Of course, this is not necessary for certain decisions during the crisis. If you have any questions about the implementation of decisions taken at federal level, you can. I remain at Parliament's disposal to debate this issue. We should definitely launch a learning board. We have prepared a cutlery for that, so that will happen in the coming weeks. I also said in committee this week that we should do our homework. We're gonna need five months to do that. It is my intention to do so together with Parliament, so that your suggestions and ideas, of people who often have a local responsibility, can also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u128	Madam Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answer, including all the necessary legal and technical references. That was one of the questions we were asking, but if we are listened to in the region of Liège, I doubt that your comments are clear as to the role of each other. There is one thing that I think is legible, it is the role of the provincial governor – or the non-role in this case. You recalled that it is he who takes charge of strategic coordination in the event of a federal phase, that it is he too who should possibly imagine operational coordination, that the Crisis Centre asked him several times if he needed anything. Clearly, according to this dossier, the role of the governor in the province of Liège is particularly crucial and particularly challenging with regard to a series of missions for which he was responsible. While some mayors have actually taken additional evacuation orders, it remains that the governor himself took evacuation orders for certain communes, about which the mayors concerned say that they did not receive them and that they were unable to implement the measures. They are also extremely late: 14 and 15 July! On July 14, we were here, we were talking about the pandemic law. At that time, we already had an idea. For example, in my home and in my community, we had already been flooded during the night. You can feel the late nature of the arrests. Why? Because call number 1722 for aid applications is activated on July 12. On the other hand, the evacuation orders of the governor of the province of Liège were taken only on 14 and 15 July. Admit, however, that there is something that is dysfunctional! On the one hand, we activate this number because we think something is going to happen, on the other hand, evacuation orders are taken too late. Not only is it too late, but there is also no assurance as to whether the addressees are well aware or whether these orders are being executed. That really asks me. When you tell me that you are going to associate the governors and you are going to ask them to evaluate, it is the province of Liège for which we are asking for an evaluation. It is his mission that needs to be assessed. It is not himself who will point the problems and tell you "I have failed" of discernment, I acted late". It is well known that this will not happen. It is you, as guardian, who must evaluate it as well as the procedures that it has put in place in order to know whether, in fact, the mayors concerned were well aware of it. It's too easy to say that the mayors didn't want to, didn't know, couldn't execute. They had to know, and they also had the means to do so, and they had to be told, "Be careful, it's very important." I think you really need to assess the province's governor's mission in the skills that are yours, of course. Indeed, it is under your authority that he carries out his missions, mainly evacuation orders. The latter continue to be a problem, although we know that there is a lesser risk culture in Belgium. But some municipalities have done so. And some municipalities have made their arrangements. I would really like to insist again. Will the Learning Commission give us the clarifications on this matter? I don't think so. I think it is a political function that has failed. Throughout your presentation, if you did not quote it once, you did not quote it 50 times: the governor, the governor, the governor, in essential missions. We realize there's a problem. There's a procedural problem, maybe a non-anticipation problem. Anyway, we need to know. You say people could learn from B-Alert. You know, I got a text message from B-Alert the next day, saying, "Don't move from home!" Everything was underwater, we wouldn't have been able to move anyway! There, there's still a question. There's a problem. I would really like us to think beyond the Learning Committee; to be involved, from now on, in an evaluation, in hearings, not to tell people that we are going to postpone this in several months, that we will see well, etc. I think people need answers now, because it's really hard for them. And, in order to move forward, as I said, we need answers. I think they have to arrive quickly. I really invite you, as well as the majority, to reflect on all the procedures that we could implement to have these answers for the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u129	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I'm really worried about the timing. I understand you want to do the business thoroughly, and I respect that. I'd definitely move on to that learning board, but I think there's also work for us. You say the Crisis Center will manage this. You also said we're going to invite the governors, but we're three months after the facts. Why are we gonna do that? It should have been done by now. I am very concerned about the timing you set out. I hear some colleagues say that certain recommendations from the corona committee can help. It is true that there are useful things that can apply here, but we are talking about a very different risk here. Prior risk information should be provided to the public, with timing and communication essential. Corona had a build-up. Here we are dealing with a sudden event. There is a need for a different approach. You will set up a learning committee, which is good, but Parliament must also be able to hear those people. I think there is a very urgent need for a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen, if you do not want to support the opposition's proposal, I am fine, but there are many colleagues from the majority who have already told me personally that they want to do so, that they also want to hear people, that we can also make recommendations. Come with something yourself, colleagues. I know I should not address you, Madam Minister, but to colleagues, but it would also help if you said that you had no objection to a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Perhaps that would motivate the majority to go along with this or to come up with a proposal on its own.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u130	Madam President, I understand that Mrs Matz has tabled a motion. I'd like to file an ordinary motion in my turn. I would also ask the House to accept the urgency so that we can vote on the respective motions today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u131	I forgot to say that I had tabled a motion of recommendation. I was so swept away by my subject... everyone knows it takes me a lot of guts. I have therefore tabled a motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u132	Mr Verherstraeten therefore calls for the urgency of voting on these motions. Can everyone agree to that? [[Yes]] Good.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u133	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Vanessa Matz and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mrs Vanessa Matz and Ms Yngvild Ingels and the response of the Minister of the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to the Provincial Act of 30 April 1836, in particular section 128 thereof; - having regard to the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007, in particular article 182 thereof; - having regard to the Police Order of the Governor of the Province of Liège of 14 July 2021 concerning the preventive evacuation of the population from the flood areas (red and orange), in the context of the floods; - having regard to the Police Order of the Governor of the Province of Liège of 15 July 2021 concerning the preventive evacuation of the population of inhabitants in particularly exposed areas in the context of floods; - having regard to the analysis report on the management of hydraulic channels, carried out by the University of Liège, during the weather of the week of 12 July 2021 commissioned by the Walloon Minister, Mr Philippe Henry, - considering that this report reveals a series of difficulties which fall within the competence of the federal authority; Requests the Government to assume its competence in the management of natural disasters affecting one or more regions of the country by: - implementing without delay the recommendations of the resolution on civil protection reform adopted by the House of Representatives on 09 July 2020 (Doc 55 0947); - reinvesting both in equipment and personnel in Civil Protection to ensure that this service is fully operational in the event of a new natural disaster; - including dams in the list of critical infrastructure set out in the Act of 1 July 2011 on the safety and protection of critical infrastructure; - instructing the National Crisis Centre to verify for each natural disaster the designation of a unit of command in accordance with the requirements of the Royal Decree of 22 May 2019 on emergency planning and emergency management at the municipal and provincial level and on the role of the mayors and provincial governors in the event of events and crisis situations requiring coordination or management at the national level; - assessing, on the one hand, the manner in which the Governor of the Province of Liège, under the authority of the Minister of the Interior, has ensured the proper reception and effective implementation of his police orders concerning the evacuation of persons and has assumed his duties in the management of the crisis, and, on the other hand, the procedures provided for in this regard." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Vanessa Matz and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of the ladies Vanessa Matz and Yngvild Ingels and the response of the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to the Province Law of 30 April 1836, and in particular Article 128 thereof, - having regard to the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007, and in particular Article 182 thereof, - having regard to the police decision of the Governor of the Province of Liège of 14 July 2021 concerning the preventive evacuation of the population in the flood areas (red and orange zones), in the context of the floods; - having regard to the police decision of the Governor of the Province of Liège of 15 July 2021 concerning the preventive evacuation of the population living in areas particularly exposed to risk dressing during the floods, - having regard to the analysis report prepared by the University of Liège on the management of waterways during the storms in the week of 12 July 2021, ordered by Walloon Minister Philippe Henry; - whereas the said report reveals a number of problems which fall within the competence of the Federal Government; Invites the Government to assume its responsibility for its powers in the management of natural disasters affecting one or more regions of the country by: - implement without delay the recommendations of the Resolution on Civil Protection Reform adopted by the Chamber of Representatives on 9 July 2020 (Doc. 55 0947); - to reinvest in both material and human resources for civil protection so that that service would be fully operational in the event of a new natural disaster; - include the dams in the critical infrastructure list established by the Act of 1 July 2011 on the security and protection of critical infrastructures, - instruct the National Crisis Centre to verify, in the event of any natural disaster, the appointment of a unit of command in accordance with the provisions of the Royal Decree of 22 May 2019 on emergency planning and management at the municipal and provincial level and on the role of mayors and provincial governors in the event of crisis events and situations requiring coordination or management at national level; - carry out an evaluation of the manner in which the Governor of the Province of Liège, under the authority of the Minister of the Interior, has ensured the proper reception and effective implementation of the police decisions relating to the evacuation of citizens and to which he has exercised his functions in crisis management, on the one hand, and of the relevant procedures, on the other.' A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Ms Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gilles Vanden Burre et Servais Verherstraeten . A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u134	The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill on various provisions in social matters, No. 2247/1; The Government asked for an urgent procedure pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on various provisions relating to social affairs, No. 2247/1; I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u135	The urgency is requested because a number of cases as soon as possible have to enter into force retroactively following judgments of the Constitutional Court, for example on the recognition of family care or on certain provisions relating to leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u136	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u137	The Government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill amending the Acts relating to the prevention of and compensation for occupational diseases, coordinated on 3 June 1970, No. 2251/1, was tabled; The Government also requested the urgency declaration, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law amending the laws on the prevention of occupational diseases and the compensation for damage resulting from those diseases was submitted, coordinated on 3 June 1970, No. 2251/1; I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u138	The government is asking for urgency because it concerns the recognition of occupational disease for workers in the event of a covid outbreak on the workplace. Employees should know as soon as possible what to do for the covered period COVID since May 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u139	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u140	The government also called for urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the draft law transposing the European Electronic Communications Code and amending various provisions on electronic communications, No. 2256/1; The Government has also requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law transposing the European Code of Electronic Communications and amending various provisions relating to electronic communications, No. 2256/1; I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u141	Madam President, the above-mentioned preliminary draft law provides for the transposition of the European directive. The deadline for this was set for 21 December 2020. It also contains several provisions which could not be approved by the resignation of the previous government, including the preliminary draft law on various provisions on electronic communications. The deadline for transposition has now expired and the European Commission has already informed Belgium by letter of the urgency of the transposition of the European Code of Electronic Communications. The formation of the government has, of course, also played a role in the successive delays in the dossier. Since the current government took office, transposition has been treated as a priority. Despite this, the dossier had to go through a wide range through the Federal Council of Ministers, the Interministerial Telecommunications Committee, the Consultation Committee and the Council of State. Given the fines that can be linked to non-compliance with EU legislation and the importance of the dossier for our country, the government is calling for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u142	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u143	Madam President, the urgency seems to me justified by the resignation of the government, but it seems to me that it has already been a short time since this resignation took place. I will therefore not be able to support the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u144	The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill amending the Act of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications, No. 2257/1. The Government also requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law amending the Law of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications, No. 2257/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u145	Madam President, urgent procedure is requested for the draft law establishing a central database. Proximus manages a number database that contains the vast majority of fixed and mobile numbers that are in use in Belgium. Except for a few small operators, all operators provide subscriber data to that database. That number database shall be consulted by the emergency services when they receive an emergency call. The database shall enable emergency services to identify the address and the caller associated with the emergency call number. In this respect, this database is absolutely essential in the light of public health and safety. This database can also be used by the providers of directory and telephone intelligence services to obtain the necessary information for the provision of services. Currently there is no legal basis for that database, its management by Proximus has grown historically. However, Proximus decided to stop the management of that database by the end of 2021. In view of that decision, and given the importance of that dossier for our country, the government is asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u146	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u147	By letter dated October 5, 2021, Mr. Wouter Benoit, a member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services, communicated that he wished to terminate his term of office with effect from January 1, 2022. By letter dated 5 October 2021, Mr Wouter Benoit, member of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision, stated that he wished to terminate his mandate with effect from 1 January 2022. Mr Wouter Benoit's term of office runs until 30 May 2022. Mr Wouter Benoit's term of office runs until 30 May 2022. Article 6, paragraph 3, of the Act of 18 July 1991 on the Control of Police and Intelligence Services and of the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis stipulates that a member whose term of office ends before the expiry of the six-year term shall be replaced, for the remainder of the term of office, by his or her first alternate and, if he or she resigns, by his or her second alternate. Article 6, third paragraph, of the Law of 18 July 1991 regulating the supervision of police and intelligence services and the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis provides that the member whose mandate expires before the expiry of the six-year period for the remainder of the term of office shall be replaced by his first alternate, and if he fails to do so, by his second alternate. At the plenary session on 12 December 2019, Ms Ariane Braccio was appointed first alternate member of Mr Wouter Benoit. At the plenary session of 12 December 2019, Ms Ariane Braccio was appointed first alternate member of Mr Wouter Benoit. By e-mail dated 13 October 2021, Ms. Ariane Braccio indicated that she would complete Mr. Wouter Benoit's term of office. By e-mail of 13 October 2021, Ms Ariane Braccio stated that she wished to complete the mandate of Mr Wouter Benoit. Ms. Ariane Braccio will be invited to take the oath in early January as a member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services. Mrs Arianne Braccio will be invited to take the oath at the beginning of January as a member of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u148	Following the appointment of Mr. Bart De Temmerman during the plenary session of 23 September 2021, all members of the Central Prison Supervisory Board were appointed. As a result of the appointment of Mr Bart De Temmerman at the plenary session of 23 September 2021, all members of the Bureau of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Office were appointed. The Chamber may therefore appoint the Vice-President of the Central Prison Supervision Board. The Chamber may therefore appoint the Vice-President of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Office. In accordance with Article 24, § 5 of the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 concerning the Prison Administration and the Legal Status of Prisoners, the Chamber appoints one of the members of the Bureau as President and another as Vice-President. The President and Vice-President have a different linguistic role. In accordance with Article 24 (5) of the Basic Law of 12 January 2005 on the prison system and the legal status of the detainees, the Court designates one member of the Bureau as President and one member as Vice-President. The President and the Vice-President are of different language roles. The Chair, Mr. Marc Nève, was drawn from the Francophone linguistic role, and the Vice-Chair must be chosen from among the Dutch-speaking members, namely MM. Pieter Houbey and Bart De Temmerman. Since the President, Mr Marc Nève, belongs to the French-speaking language role, the Vice-President should be elected among the Dutch-speaking members, Mr Pieter Houbey and Mr Bart De Temmerman. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 October 2021, I propose that you make this appointment at the plenary meeting on 10 November 2021. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 October 2021, I propose that you proceed to this appointment at the plenary session of 10 November 2021. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Members may vote from Friday, 22 October 2021 until Wednesday, 10 November 2021 at 4 p.m. The ballot paper and the parliamentary document are available to them in the General Secretariat. - Members may vote from Friday 22 October 2021 until Wednesday 10 November 2021 at 4 p.m. The ballot and the parliamentary document are available to the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only members can receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on the spot and deposited in the ballot box. I would remind you that only Members can receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. - The ballot paper will be opened during the plenary session on Wednesday, 10 November 2021 in Room 3. - The urn with the ballots will be opened at the plenary session of Wednesday 10 November 2021 in Room 3. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u149	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u150	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 186/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Vanessa Matz; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Wouter De Vriendt et Servais Verherstraeten. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 186/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Vanessa Matz; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u151	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u152	Yes [[74]] Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u153	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u154	Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u155	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u156	Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u157	Vote on Amendment No 6 by Greet Daems on request 16.(2200/5) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Greet Daems at request 16.(2200/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u158	Yes [[11]] Yes No. 127 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Greet Daems on request 20.(2200/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Greet Daems at request 20.(2200/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u159	Yes [[11]] Yes No. 127 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Greet Daems on request 21.(2200/5) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Greet Daems at request 21.(2200/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u160	Yes [[11]] Yes No. [[113]] No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 9 from Greet Daems on request 30.(2200/5) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Greet Daems at request 30.(2200/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u161	Yes [[11]] Yes No. 127 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Greet Daems on request 43.(2200/5) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Greet Daems at the request 43.(2200/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u162	Yes [[15]] Yes No. 123 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 11 from Greet Daems to insert a request 44 (n).(2200/5) Vote on amendment No 11 by Greet Daems to insert a request 44 (n).(2200/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u163	Yes [[15]] Yes No. 123 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 12 from Greet Daems to insert a request 45 (n).(2200/5) Vote on amendment No 12 by Greet Daems to insert a request 45 (n).(2200/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u164	Yes [[11]] Yes No. 110 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u165	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u166	Yes 105 Yes No. [[17]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u167	Vote on Amendment No 12 by Kathleen Depoorter on Article 2.(346/8) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Kathleen Depoorter to Article 2.(346/8) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u168	Yes 44 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Sofie Merckx on Article 2.(346/8) Vote on Amendment No 13 of Sofie Merckx to Article 2.(346/8) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u169	Yes [[27]] Yes No. 108 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u170	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u171	Yes 110 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u172	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u173	Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip135x.u174	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 28 October 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, October 28, 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
