ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u1	Mr Minister, the Court of Auditors has issued a report which answers the question whether the extension of the target group reduction, the first commitment, has achieved its objective of improving the viability of businesses and promoting job creation. The Court noted that there was no evidence of the effectiveness of the unlimited exemption on employment. In any case, she considered it very difficult to appreciate. On the one hand, its influence on the number of employers developing jobs is not discernible. Indeed, it states that "there are few additional employers" - or even none - "have made a first commitment in comparison with the evolution observed before the introduction of the measure". On the other hand, "the number of employers applying the reduction for the first commitment and the resulting volume of work do not increase faster than in the context of the lump-sum reductions". On the other hand, the Court notes that "the viability of employers has improved slightly as a result of this measure", since employment is increasing a little faster among employers applying the measure, even if the case is not fully proven. In addition, this report provides some information on costs, which are quite worrying. Thus, the previous government had estimated the cost of the measure at EUR 509 million for the period 2016-2020. However, the Court concludes that it will amount to more than one billion. As to whether this will lead to job creation, the report considers that this large increase in the cost does not translate into an increase in the volume of work in the same proportion. The cost per full-time equivalent in 2018 already exceeds that of 2015 by 68.6%. One explanation is that this measure is applied equally to all wage levels, so that it has eventually been applied to higher wages. The Court tells us that this cost was not controlled, because of this provision on unlimited reductions and that, as a result, this measure is proving to be inefficient. The Court also points to quite specific elements. For example, at the time of the takeover of a company or when a company takes over another company, if it dismisses and re-engages the workers, it is entitled to this reduction but not if it takes over the workers. The Court highlights some elements in terms of control and proposes recommendations. I asked the Minister of Labour about the effect on employment. Minister, what are your reactions to these recommendations? What initiatives do you plan to take to improve the efficiency of this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u2	Minister, recently I asked you a question about the first recruitment measure, which provides for an exemption from basic patronage contributions for an indefinite period in the recruitment of the first employee. The Court of Auditors pointed out that the measure partly misses its purpose because some companies abuse it. You stated that you are awaiting the evaluation by the RSZ Management Committee to examine the measure and, if necessary, adjust it where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u3	I would like to ask my questions, Madam President. The Court of Auditors' report shows that the reduction in the target population for first recruitment, which is unlimited in time, is inefficient, prone to fraud and far too expensive for the benefits associated with it. The number of new employers is only 0.8 % higher after the introduction than in the period 2012-2014. In addition, the Federal Planning Office says that the measure only increases the chances of survival for young enterprises to a limited extent. The Planning Bureau states that this may indicate that the new modalities do not meet the real needs during the start-up phase of such a young company and/or that it may even allow more new employers to venture into a risky enterprise. Minister, what about the intention to evaluate the measure with the social partners, on the one hand, to avoid a non-take-up, but on the other hand to prevent excessive use and abuse? What do you think of the Court of Auditors' recommendation that a flat-rate reduction, limited in time, would be better and more cost-effective, and also less risk of improper use? Or do you see other ways to make the measure more targeted and therefore more efficient, so that the money is better spent?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u4	Mr Minister, a recent report by the Court of Auditors in February revealed that the cost of the target discount had risen significantly in the first employee in recent years. I read: "The cost may have increased mainly because the measure is applied to higher wages. On the other hand, the cost per FTE for the flat-rate reductions for the second to sixth recruitment increases much less quickly than for the first recruitment and the labour volume increases in proportion. This indicates that flat-rate reductions are more cost-efficient to stimulate employment compared to the unlimited exemption." Not by chance did I anticipate this criticism at the end of 2020, even before the report came into being, by submitting a proposal to extend the target discount first employee, in which I have already proposed a wage limit, which was equal to the wage limit for the target discount for the second employee. We debated this in plenary in December. I also tabled the proposal by means of an amendment to the programme law, because I felt it was really important not to throw the child away with the bath water and, above all, to prevent the improper use of high wages. Unfortunately, on behalf of the government, you have chosen to extend the measure without a wage limit and my bill was voted down, while the net anticipated the criticism of the improper use and lack of a wage limit. After reading the Court of Auditors' report, do you agree with me that we should apply a wage limit to the first employee's target discount? After reading the report by Maakthof, do you consider any other adjustments to the target discount first employee?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u5	As a result of the exemption from the employer's contribution, a company that creates a job for the first time does not pay an employer's contribution. In this way, many new jobs have been created in the past. This also means that more people have been given more purchasing power. It's also good news for social security. More people with jobs means fewer benefits and more social security contributions. This is a positive measure in the context of labour market policy, which we, as a party, fully support. The Government Agreement states that consultations will take place in 2021 with the social partners to evaluate and, where appropriate, adapt the system. I quote literally: "The exemption from employers' contributions for the recruitment of the first employee will be extended after 2020. In the course of 2021, an evaluation of the system will be carried out in consultation with the social partners, which could lead to an adjustment. The aim is to avoid non-take-up by simplifying and automating the system, but also to prevent excessive use and abuse." So the emphasis is on simplifying and automation of the system. Is an evaluation already under way? When can you submit the results? What do you specifically want to do to reduce the non-take-up of the measure and to ensure that companies entitled to it can also make effective use of the measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u6	Madam President, many Members have asked questions about the timing of the evaluation of the plus plans. I asked the Management Committee of the National Social Security Office to carry out this evaluation and to follow it up afterwards. On 6 November 2020, I asked the RSZ Management Committee to evaluate by 31 March at the latest the existing system of reduction in the target group first recruitment, an idea which was included in the government agreement. It is a pity that all these questions are now being asked, because I think I have said several times that these evaluations have been requested by 31 March, and that date has not yet been reached. I therefore do not yet have those evaluations at my disposal. I asked that it be examined to what extent the system can still be simplified and automated in order to avoid non-use of the reduction. In addition, consideration should be given to whether it is possible to combat excessive and abusive use of this device. I have also asked that account be taken of the Court of Auditors' January 2021 report on the first commitments. This report was born thanks to the significant support of ONSS. The outcome of this evaluation is expected by the end of this month. I will therefore, on the basis of the evaluation of the Management Committee, taking into account the findings and recommendations of the Court of Auditors, make a number of proposals to the Government to optimise the system of reduction for the first employees in order to ensure efficient and effective use of resources. The proposed regulatory texts will, of course, then be submitted to the social partners for their opinion after their adoption by the Council of Ministers. If the opinion of the Management Committee is delivered at the requested date of 31 March, it is in principle possible that any amendment of this regulation may enter into force on 1 July. This depends, of course, on the timing and, above all, on the content of the evaluation by the RSZ Management Committee. If completion of the evaluation takes a little more time than foreseen, the changes to the legislation will be possible later. The content of the evaluation is, as far as I am concerned, more important than the timing. One member drew my attention to the fact that in February, the Federal Office of the Plan also conducted an analysis of the target group reduction for the first employee. This analysis specifically concerns the aspect of the impact of this target group reduction on the chances of survival of start-ups. The Plan Bureau's study shows that this impact is positive but limited. This study, which responds to a point of concern also raised by the Court of Auditors, has been added to the core document for the evaluation to be carried out by the Management Committee. In the event of any adjustment, it remains essential to bear in mind the original objective of the measure. This objective is, with regard to the +1 plan, to stimulate or convince potential employers to hire a first employee. The amount of the salary or the context and characteristics of the person engaged are not a criterion. All jobseekers are included in the reduction measure, the first commitment. There are other measures to support the employment of low-wage workers. Madam President, another question concerned the calculation of the cost of strengthening the measure for first-time employees. This measure was strengthened in the previous period of government. It is the measure which converted a temporary reduction into a full exemption from basic patronial contributions for an indefinite period. In order to calculate the cost of such a measure, two parameters are crucial: firstly, the average cost per employee, and secondly, the estimation of the target group and its growth on an annual basis. For the first parameter, an average discount of 1,500 euro per quarter per employee was assumed. However, as of 2016, its real amount was 1,600 euros, and in 2020 it was even 2,000 euros per quarter. In the case of multiannual estimates in particular, the result depends very much on the initial parameters used. A small error at the beginning can cause large differences after a few years. For the estimation of both parameters, a number of data from the past were incomplete or insufficiently exploitable. First, there is the average cost of the employee. Since the previous reduction was a lump sum per quarter – the amount of the reduction decreasing even from the sixth quarter – this history was not useful for estimating the measure, not to mention that from 2016 there was no longer a ceiling on the exempted amount. Similarly, the wage data available for the population that benefited from the cuts in 2014 were insufficient to estimate the average cost per employee. Secondly, growth on an annual basis in the case of a measure with a time-limited advantage is very different when the measure is of unlimited duration. Growth is determined by inputs (new employers who use the measure) and exits (employers who cease to work and employers for whom the temporary measure ends). For the calculation of the exits from the measure before 2015, it was not possible to determine what part of the exits came from the stops and what part came from the termination of the measure. This unknown complicates estimates for the future. It should also be noted that other unknown factors have had an impact on these parameters, e.g. economic growth and the degree to which it translates into start-ups, the characteristics of the new employers, labour intensive versus capital intensive, interaction with other contribution reductions, etc. In any case, the parameters used at the time have led to a strong underestimate of the real additional costs. These were adjusted in the subsequent budgetary estimates, on the basis of the achievements, in the new data. My answer to the questions put, including those of Members who could not be present today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u7	Mr. Goblet has problems with connection. He is therefore unable to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answers. I have the impression that you underestimate the Court of Auditors' return to the measures put in place. We're worried. We understand that an evaluation is planned and we hope to be kept informed in time so that we can analyse it ourselves. We also hear that you intend to make a request to the government in order to optimize the matter. This means that, even without an evaluation, you consider that there are elements of these measures to be maintained, which is, for us, doubtful, especially in view of what the Court of Auditors teaches us, but also in order to sustain social security. You know as well as I do that if structural measures are not taken to finance it by making the widest shoulders pay, we will not be able to do so. In times of pandemics, we see how important our social security is to keep some of the workers' heads out of the water, but we also see that part of the population is still under water. Hence the importance of refinancing social security so that it remains this system of solidarity in our country. We will not fail to return. As far as abuses are concerned, there is no ceiling. We have had returns, which we can imagine, of business establishments with the commitment of directors to take advantage of the measure and then transfer the rest of the workers. We cannot accept that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for the answers you have provided and the perspectives you have given. I will return to this issue after March 31, when you receive this assessment report from ONSS. I invite you to draw their attention to the issue of the efficiency of public money. It turns out that these amounts are really important, so they must be used properly to meet the objective of the measure, namely to create employment. Another point of attention is to look at small wages. You say there are other measures for low wages. Of course, but according to the Court of Auditors this measure is very expensive, in particular because there is no ceiling on small wages. Efficiency in relation to the unlimited dimension must really be at the heart of this evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u10	So, Minister, we still have to be patient until 31 March at the latest. Then you will have the evaluation of the management committee. I am pleased that the other reports will also be included in the evaluation. The reports we have received have shown abuse. We really need to change that. Extending the measure is not a problem for us, but it should be extended in a modified form. The essence of the measure also needs to be taken back. The RSZ exemption for the first employee was aimed at convincing entrepreneurs to cross the bridge and recruit someone. It was really meant as a measure to create jobs. That's where we need to go. It's about job creation and encouraging people to create new jobs or recruit staff. The measure cannot be used to finance or subsidise the top wages of some, as demonstrated by the abuses we have seen in the Court of Auditors' report. We welcome the fact that it is being continued, but there is absolutely no need to change it and we need to go back to the essence. Misuse by a number of people, with subsidies of millions a year, can't be done. We can use that money much better for the creation of many thousands of jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u11	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I would like to focus on the word 'abuse', because on the one hand there is real abuse possible, on the other hand there is just legislation that people do not abuse because they relate to the law as it should. The law just doesn't achieve its purpose. We need to put a stop to that. It is very important to be effective and to simplify and automate, but we must also be careful not to make mistakes. We must ensure that the measure reaches where it is most needed. The fact that the measure is unlimited is in contradiction with the aim of ensuring that young entrepreneurs in particular can recruit staff. There is no reduction in pay and one can therefore systematically give the highest reduction to the highest wage. We need to put a stop to this. We look forward to the evaluation, and we will come back soon, especially from the need, as Mr Cornet said, to doing something for the people with the lowest wages. This can also be an effective measure for them, but it needs to be adapted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, from which I understand, above all, that you are waiting for the evaluation to be made before you make very bold statements about the continuation, in whatever form, of the measure on the target discount for the first employee. Many Members are arguing here at least in covert terms for a wage limit. It is actually about improper use that we want to combat with the wage threshold and indeed not about abuse. That would have broken the rule. However, the legislative framework needs to be adapted in this way. Let us just say that the proposal I tabled in 2020 is both a legislative proposal and an amendment. That is what the Members who are now arguing for the wage limit voted away not so long ago. However, things have not been done. I can tell from my elbows that there's gonna be another chance. So it's gonna be okay in the end. Our proposal must have been somewhat prophetic. I would also like to make it quite clear that it is very touching to hear many Members who often argue for a lot more public expenditure and spending in social security, today arguing for the efficient use of public funds. I can only endorse that plea. It is a plea that we are also consistent in almost every debate. I hope that the many Members who make that plea today will continue it consistently in other debates as well. This promises a great deal of good, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u13	Minister, of course we understand that you are waiting for the evaluation of the management committee of the RSZ to proceed with the consultations within the government. The only thing I would like to say is that, if there is a reform or adjustment, it must be done in a balanced way. Nor should we forget the objective of creating jobs, which has just been mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u14	Mr Minister, in the discussion of the repair law on association work at the end of 2020 and in the replies to the oral question on Wednesday 13 January, you stressed that the current regime is temporary and that the definitive regime should be given a legally secure framework. One of the main reasons why the Constitutional Court destroyed the old Jobs Act was the violation of the principle of equality. Anyone carrying out similar activities must be subject to a level playing field, especially if those activities are also carried out in the ordinary economic circuit by companies with employees or self-employed persons. This was also the main motive behind the Constitutional Court's decision to destroy the Constitutional Court in spring 2020. In the repair law association work the scope was significantly limited to a number of supporting activities, training, coaching, guidance at recreational sports clubs. All other activities, carried out to a greater or lesser extent in the regular work circuit, were deleted. We are talking here, for example, about services through recognised electronic service platforms that were the subject of another repair law in December 2020. However, this repair law for the services via approved electronic platforms did not choose to impose a double charge of 10% twice, but only 10% once. Mr Minister, why did we opt for a different repair scheme for association work on the one hand and platform economy on the other? How can you justify, in the light of the principle of equality, that association work in sport is subject to a charge of 10% twice and only 10% once in the platform economy? Can you agree that the current scope of association work to a limited number of support activities in sport does not overlap with regular activities of companies and self-employed persons? Can you agree that this overlap exists between many activities in the platform economy and the regular services of companies and self-employed people? Do you not plan to eliminate this distinction in the course of 2021 at least?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u15	Minister, at the end of last year, when we adopted the regulation on support for association work, we deliberately restricted it to the sports sector. It is a temporary scheme which must be converted into a definitive scheme in line with the observations of the Constitutional Court. Not all sectors covered by the earlier legislative provisions will be able to rely on this more favourable regime. However, it was agreed that it would be extended to certain key sectors. On 13 January I asked you a question about the extension of the temporary arrangement to the socio-cultural sector and the amateur arts. You replied that you were consulting with the sector, both on the Flemish and on the French-speaking side, and that you would, among other things, have talks with the federation to see if the sector could benefit temporarily from the measure. It is now mid-March and I note that there is still no regulation for the sector in question. How'd the meeting go? Will the sector still be able to benefit from the temporary regulation? What's taking so long? Are there any questions from other sectors to benefit from this temporary arrangement? However, I would point out that we must be careful not to open the scheme to everyone, especially in sectors where we know we will not take it into account afterwards for the definitive regulation. I understand your caution, but I would ask that the sector of social and cultural work, of which we are sure, should finally benefit from an arrangement. That is where the limits of what is possible are being met.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u16	Minister, the bill on association work was adopted on 17 December 2020. The destruction of the Jobs Act by the Constitutional Court threatened the union workers, especially in the sports sector, to end up in a very difficult situation with regard to their income, such as sports trainer, youth sports coach or youth coordinator. The law provides a solution to the established different treatment of association work versus regular work and also provides social protection, two aspects of the supplement law that were destroyed by the Constitutional Court. The legislative proposal was initially limited to the sports sector, the sector that made the most use of the legislation. During the discussions of the bill, it was repeatedly cited that other sectors that invoked the Jobs Act are also requesting to be added to the scope. In particular, the socio-cultural sector, the arts sector, tourist guides, as well as organisations responsible for night care for single persons in need of help, are asking parties to join. During the discussion of the legislative proposal in plenary, it was asked to consider how these sectors could best be added to the scope. You confirmed in January that this was the subject of discussions. What is the outcome of the consultation with the sectors which may also be eligible for application of the law on association work? Which sectors were consulted? Which sectors do you want to add to the scope? The legislation shall apply until the end of 2021. What are the intentions? After all, a year will soon be over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u17	Madam President, first I will answer Mr Anseeeuw's question and then I will answer the following questions. Mr Anseeeuw, the tax regime of the platform economy for income obtained through a recognised platform already existed before the creation of the association work. The scheme was introduced by the Programme Act of 1 July 2016. She was then amended by the so-called "residence law', which also introduced the association work. As you know, the Supplementary Act was annulled by the Constitutional Court, including the provisions for the regulation of platform economy that were amended by the Supplementary Act. However, the effects of the Act were maintained until 31 December 2020. In order to allow the association work to a limited extent from 1 January 2021, a new law was indeed adopted. An RSZ contribution of 10% is provided for by the associations and 10% for personal taxes borne by the association worker. That arrangement was adopted to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which established a difference in social and tax treatment between association workers and employees engaged in the same activity. However, for the platform economy, the provisions of the Programme Act of 1 July 2016 automatically re-applyed, including the 10% tax laid down. A quarter of this tax is intended for the overall financial management of the self-employed system. That difference can be justified. It is not the same situation. The scope of association work is very limited. It can now only be used for certain specific activities in the sport sector. The new regulation maintains the annual ceiling of 6,390 euros as well as the monthly ceiling and introduces a limit of an average of 50 hours of activity per month. Prior to the introduction of the association work, these activities were mainly carried out by volunteers. It is true that there is little overlap with the activities of the self-employed and companies. What distinguishes a service in the platform economy from an activity in association but also an activity as a self-employed person is not the nature of the activity but the fact that it is considered to be carried out on a small scale by a private individual in respect of another private individual, i.e. outside any professional activity. The aim of the scheme is to create a simple and attractive fiscal framework to stimulate entrepreneurship in the long term. It enables individuals to test a small-scale activity and then to consider establishing themselves as a self-employed person or changing the business sector. The effect of this scheme on the social status of self-employed persons is monitored by the RSVZ. There is currently no significant reduction in the number of self-employed persons in the secondary occupation. The current system of association work is a temporary solution that will apply until the end of 2021. In the coming months, we will work within the government, in consultation with the social partners, on tailor-made solutions for the sectors concerned, so that they will have legal certainty from 2022 onwards. I would like to say the following to the questions put by Mrs Lanjri and Mrs De Jonge. In accordance with the agreement in the federal government at the end of last year, my staff have organised consultations with representatives of the socio-cultural sector to see if and under what modalities and for what activities they consider it appropriate to integrate into the temporary arrangement for 2021. That is why I replied to you last time that any extension of the temporary arrangement to other sectors was not on the agenda. Together with their colleagues in the policy cells of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Work and the Minister of Finance, my collaborators have indeed consulted with representatives of the umbrella federation representing the Flemish socio-cultural adult work and the amateur arts. They also spoke with the French-speaking umbrella organisation Incidente. Both were requesting parties to extend the association work to include the activities mentioned in Articles 3, 5 and 15 of the Law of 18 July 2018 on Economic Relance and Strengthening Social Cohesion which, as you know, was destroyed by the Constitutional Court in a judgment of 23 April 2020. It concerns the artistic or artistic accompaniment in the amateur arts sector, the artistic and cultural educational sector and the provider of training, lectures, presentations and performances on cultural, artistic and social themes in the sociocultural, sports, cultural, artistic and arts sectors. However, during the discussion in the government of this result, it was asked to examine whether the temporary arrangement could be extended further to other activities, in addition to the proposed socio-cultural activities. This concerns the concierge of youth, sports, cultural and artistic infrastructure, which is already provided for sport; the guides or public escorts of art, heritage and nature; the accompaniment services for, during and/or after school hours, organized at school or during school holidays, as well as transport to and from the school; the night sitter, i.e. sleep-in, as well as day-care services for persons in need of help, in accordance with the conditions and quality criteria laid down by each Community, in accordance with the conditions and quality criteria laid down by each Community. For each additional activity proposed, a policy working group identified those to be consulted with in order to determine as objectively as possible whether an extension is required. My staff are currently organising consultations with the various interlocutors. My intention is to conclude this extensive consultation as soon as possible and to submit its conclusions to the government. Once the discussion on extending the scope of the temporary scheme for 2021 has been completed, my colleagues and I can fully focus on developing the definitive scheme from 2022 onwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u18	It is true, Mr Minister, that the platform economy, which, by definition, has a profitable purpose, which in itself is nothing wrong, is of course taxed only once at 10%, while the association work, which is not profitable or low, is taxed twice at 10%. You say that this difference can be justified, but I do not understand why you argue that this is not the same way of treating non-similar situations, because it is precisely the profit that means that less taxes have to be paid. I am not in favour of increasing the burden on the platform economy, but I find it incomprehensible that the government repeatedly chooses to impose additional burdens on the union work, that social fabric of a lot of volunteers who are already under considerable pressure at this time of year, which is not really legally necessary. It is therefore purely a policy choice to tax volunteers more heavily than is actually necessary, even though it does not involve a profit-making process. I very much regret that, but I do very much appreciate the clear answer you have given. It's a policy choice, a political choice. That is not our choice, but it is yours and many colleagues'. I regret that very much and will continue to put it on the table until some people may come to terms with it. After all, I find it incomprehensible that volunteers and associations are burdened a lot more heavily than certain people who have a business spirit and try out certain things, which I do not have a problem with. However, I do not understand why one has to pay twice as much tax as the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u19	We voted on this temporary arrangement about mid-December, just before Christmas. At the time, we said that there would be a need for limited enlargement. It is a bit unfortunate that it is still taking so long to extend the scheme to include socio-cultural work and amateur arts. Maybe we should've taken that one out of the blue in December. We're pretty sure we're gonna have to expand that. The procedure is apparently delayed by the fact that all kinds of other cars are now attached to them. Unless you come to a decision very quickly with the competent colleagues on who can still be in this temporary arrangement, with particular reference to the socio-cultural work, if necessary in a narrow sense, without adding anything else, it will soon be May or June. Then it's not really necessary to do anything anymore. You also say that it is time for us to work on the definitive regulation. We shouldn't even wait on that. Let us start with that so that, hopefully, before the summer, we in Parliament have a view of the final settlement, so that we no longer have to realize, as last year, that we are not ready in time. Make quick progress on enlargement for social and cultural work. The rest will have to wait. Otherwise, it's really hopelessly too late. Afterwards, preferably before the summer, we must also see the final arrangement. Hopefully you will be able to come up with a proposal as soon as possible, for the government and for Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for the answer and the efforts to identify sectors which may fall within the scope. It is clear that there will be a very good analysis. I might give you another tip. The monthly figures for last year's active declarations show which sectors are making intensive use of them. We have seen that 50% of all declarations were in the sports sector, but other sectors are also urgently waiting for this, especially because they are currently applying the voluntary law, but only on the basis of expenses. We have a very clear picture of the difference between an association worker and a volunteer. I hope that this can be respected and that legislation can serve as a basis for extending its scope.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u21	Before turning to the next question, I would like to include in the record that I have tried to give Mr Goblet the floor three times in the previous topical and urgent debate. It comes back to me in writing that I wouldn't have done it. I would like to point that out and refer to the audio recording, if there is any reason to verify that I did indeed wish to give the floor to Mr Goblet for the reply. I think he's gone. So I can't report him any more anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u22	The importance of full and understandable information on the diversity of leave and the consequences of their inclusion on the current and future rights of people is recognised both in academic and political circles. The government agreement also states that the government will consult with the social partners on the simplification, harmonisation and optimisation of the various leave systems, with specific attention to the motives for caring and the reconciliation of work and family life. Thanks to the Break@work application, it is already possible to calculate quickly how much time credit or career break someone can take and the periods during which the amount or benefit is granted. The website of the RVA also contains numerous information on the different forms of career break and time credit. Mypension.be is an important instrument in the Belgian social security landscape and constitutes an important channel of communication for citizens with regard to their pension rights. I therefore fully support the continuous improvement of these applications. The Minister of Work and the Minister of Pensions, who are responsible for Break@work and mypension respectively, will be more able to explain to you their plans for the future development of these tools. I share your view that, in the context of this consultation, objective information, including for right holders, should also be taken into account in relation to the impact of the inclusion of any form of leave on social rights, and ideally even on career development.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. There are indeed three ministers responsible for matters, the Minister of Work, the Minister of Pensions and yourself. You are entitled to a number of benefits. People are currently receiving all the information fragmented. On one website they see what kind of pension they have built up and on the other website they see what forms of career break exist. However, they do not get an overview of the whole. I myself would argue in favour of keeping a single website, which contains all the information. In this way, for example, a person wishing to take palliative leave or parental leave can also immediately see the effect it would have on the future pension. This website should also be linked to the person's identity data, so that, for example, individuals can also get an overview of what might be left for them to take leave. Not everyone knows that he can take a certain leave of absence. As an example, I give the under-utilisation of birth leave for independent fathers. That could be solved with a website. I therefore hope, Minister, that you will participate in such a website. Someone will have to take the lead and hopefully that will happen soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u24	Mr Minister, until 31 March the so-called corona volunteers can count on an increased flat-rate fee. Volunteers who work in residential care centers, hospitals and triage centers can use an expense allowance of up to 35 euros per day or 2,600 euros per year. This is a doubling of the maximum amount that volunteers can normally receive as flat-rate expenses. That is a good thing because the help of volunteers is certainly welcome in corona times. Many volunteers are already putting their hands up in the vaccination centres. It therefore seems obvious to me that this measure should be extended so that it does not expire on 31 March. We call for an extension until the end of the year. For example, no volunteer has to worry about reaching the limit. I would also like to raise another problem. Under the Voluntary Act, the same activities may not be carried out for the same employer as an employee and as a volunteer at the same time. In concrete terms, this means that employees of local authorities, such as nurses in a residential care centre, are not allowed to volunteer in the vaccination centre of their own municipality during their free hours. After all, the municipality is setting up that vaccination centre. I don't think that's what this is supposed to be. Minister, will you extend until the end of the year the measure which doubles the lump sum allowance? Do you think that the extension of this measure is sufficient or do you provide for additional measures to seek additional volunteers? How will you solve the aforementioned problem of the employees of the local authorities? Can a temporary exception be provided for under the Voluntary Act? I want to say, of course, that it must be about volunteering. Of course, we do not have to compensate everyone with a voluntary allowance. For example, it is not intended to compensate the nursing staff or doctors who are in any case needed to set the price as volunteers, while leaving their other work to do so. For the other volunteers who come to give a hand, the voluntary allowance is provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u25	Madam President, the vaccination campaign once again raises the question of helping hands. Fortunately, there are many people who show solidarity. They spontaneously offer to help in vaccination centres. Many volunteers are doing nothing to help them. I do not think they do this for the flat-rate expenses, but I do think it is important that they should be able to work carefree without constantly keeping track. I also think it is important that we give them legal certainty. Together with my colleagues Dermagne and Van Peteghem, I have therefore prepared a draft royal decision to increase the amount of annual expenses for volunteering to support the vaccination campaign until the end of 2021. We submitted that draft to the High Council for Volunteers by means of an urgent procedure. The KB was approved by the Council of Ministers on Friday 26 February 2021 and the procedure for signing the Decision is under way. By increasing the annual ceiling on expenses, we are making it possible for volunteers to support the vaccination centres for a longer period of time. So we do not need to work out a special arrangement, such as for occasional work. Mr. Anseeeuw surveyed that. In response to Mrs Lanjri, we also need to extend the application of the compensation fund for the volunteers COVID-19 victims until the end of this year. This extension was included in the aid package approved by the nuclear cabinet on 12 February. The draft law was approved by the Council of Ministers on 26 February and will soon be dealt with in this committee. To Mrs Vanrobaeys, I would like to say that the government is indeed considering whether it is possible to extend the existing increase in the annual cost ceiling for volunteering in healthcare and other key sectors for the second quarter of this year. In these sectors, too, the need remains high. Finally, I would like to reply to Mrs Lanjri and to Mrs Muylle, who is now absent, that it is true that Article 3.1d of the Voluntary Act provides that voluntary work may not be carried out by the same person and for the same organisation in the context of a contract of employment, a service contract or an appointment as a statutory staff member. The legislator's aim is to prevent abuse. It is not intended that employees or officials should carry out their duties in the same organisation, but under the voluntary status. There is one exception to this, by the way. Back then, Minister for Social Affairs Rudy Demotte confirmed in response to a question in the Committee on Social Affairs of 19 October 2005 that paid workers should in principle not be allowed to volunteer in the same organisation, unless it is another task package, which is completely separate from the activities of the person concerned as an employee or civil servant. That is, for example, the teacher who stands behind the bar at a school party, the administrative clerk in a welfare organization who helps once a month in the nightcare facility or the bookkeeper of a hospital who, as a volunteer in the children's ward of the same hospital, takes care of the animation. A paid force contributing to the vaccination may therefore volunteer in the vaccination centre of the same entity or organisation, but it should not be the same activities that he or she performs in his or her professional function.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u26	Mr Minister, it is important to maintain the extension of the scheme for the other volunteers, namely in the residential care centres and in the rest of the healthcare sector, until the end of the year. Otherwise, people will really have to make a whole puzzle. Anyone who is also volunteering in a vaccination centre may do so until the end of the year. If that person does voluntary work alone in a residential care centre, it should not be until the end of the year. It's gonna be needless complex. Hopefully you will continue the extension until the end of the year. The corona crisis is not over yet. That would be easier. You say it's possible, unless it's for another task. This means quite specifically that a nurse who works in a residential care centre and who, as a nurse, can of course also give a prick there, should not give a prick in a vaccination centre as a volunteer. That's too bad. After all, there are often too few hands there. For example, if nurses want to give a few hours as volunteers, they could not do so. It is good to consider whether this exception should not be extended or whether an exception should be granted temporarily, even if it concerns the same tasks, for people willing to do that work voluntarily, in addition to their full-time job in hospital or resting place. It would be crazy to say that the nurse can only manage the parking in the vaccination centre on weekends, while she might as well give shots, especially because we need those people. Hopefully there'll be a change of direction. You're working on the KB. Maybe there's another way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u27	However, I would urge you to refrain from pursuing a policy that allows different types of volunteers to work side by side. It is important that all volunteers can be valued in the same way, regardless of who is used where for which task. Parking is of course also important in such a center. I also understand, of course, Mrs Lanjri's remark that it is strange that people who have a certain expertise and competence should not be able to use them as volunteers. Of course, that's a missed opportunity. I also maintain my plea to ensure that there is no volunteering at more than one speed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It's fantastic that so many volunteers report to the vaccination centers. Mr Anseuw, I would like to say that this is an exceptional situation. It is particularly important that the volunteers concerned are able to work carelessly and have certainty. Raising the annual ceiling means for me that they can now work 70 instead of 40 days. This also means, however, that workers who are in temporary unemployment or self-employed persons with a right of bridging can also do voluntary work without restricting their benefits. It is important that these people's commitment is not punished but rewarded. As far as volunteers from the municipality are concerned, I must honestly admit that in our municipality, the officials working in the vaccination centre, who are engaged as one task package, are regarded as being simply paid by the municipality within their remit and within the role they play in the vaccination centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u29	Madam President, since my name was mentioned, I would like to add one more thing. Mrs Vanrobaeys, I may be wrong, but I have the impression that you would suggest that I made a different plea than I actually made. After all, the thrust of my plea was not at all what you are suggesting. It is extremely important, therefore, that I have asked a question about it myself, and that there will be clarity for all volunteers. I fully agree with you on that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u30	Madam President, I would like to begin by apologizing for the fact that the agenda is rather cluttered by PTB questions, but our colleagues have not been able to cancel them via the platform. Mr Colebunders will therefore not ask the question on the same subject. Minister, we have already had the opportunity in committee to discuss the difficulties faced by bereaved families. Several bills have been tabled, especially on the issue of bereavement leave. On this occasion, we had hearings that highlighted even more the difficulties of all these families. The League of Families carried out an extensive study and had the opportunity to meet the families concerned. In Belgium, 10,000 children lost their father, mother or two parents and 1,000 children lost their lives prematurely. From the synthesis made by the League of Families, there are three major concerns for these families: 1. a financial problem: at present, a transitional allowance exists for a limited period of two years. The League of Families believes that this is far too little and asks for a much longer allowance until the children have finished their studies; 2. lack of psychological support: today, eight psychological sessions are reimbursed. It's far too little. There is also a problem of non-visibility for all associations that could help these families; 3. administrative harassment: the Ligue des Familles advocates to automate the forms as much as possible and to develop a service as it exists in France by the Caisse nationale d'allocations familiales, a service that would help these families in these painful moments. Minister, how did you understand all the recommendations of the League of Families? What steps will you take to improve the situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u31	Madam President, a number of issues have been raised. First, the transitional allowance. Since it is the Minister of Pensions, Ms. Lalieux, who has jurisdiction in this matter, I suggest that you ask her about the action she wishes to take on the recommendations regarding this allowance. With regard to psychological counselling, it is true that the loss of a child or parent with a dependent child is a terrible test. In some cases, psychological support may be necessary. In December 2019, the federal government and INAMI approved a first-line psychological care reimbursement agreement. First intended for adults, this offer was then extended to children, adolescents and seniors in April 2020, following the pandemic. The person can benefit from up to eight sessions per calendar year under the current system. This offer is complementary to other existing offers, such as in mental health services. During this legislature, we want to further improve and strengthen the accessibility of psychological care. To this end, we are developing an appropriate INAMI convention with the various actors involved. In addition to current short-term interventions, we also want to make it possible for more intensive interventions, both individual and group. With regard to your question of greater visibility and financial support for associations working in the field of family support following a death, I note that the requested reinforcement does not translate into a financial contribution to these associations, but rather into a contribution in terms of the support of qualified professionals, as explained in the previous reply, namely the possibility for each of the applications for assistance which come to the associations to be supported by this new mechanism which covers the whole territory. The question of the automation of a maximum of administrative formalities following a death exceeds my competence, but the offer price of certain social rights attracts my attention. The BELMOD project, funded by Europe and coordinated by the Social Security FPS, examines how more up-to-date data on labour income and benefits can be used to identify potential beneficiaries more quickly. Vulnerable groups can be quickly identified through income updating. A strategy to encourage potential rights holders to apply will also be considered. In addition, the non-take-up working group of the SPF Social Security and the SPP Social Integration, in collaboration with the public social security institutions, is working on an action plan and concrete measures to ensure the use of social rights. Finally, the right to the social tariff for electricity and natural gas has recently been extended to all those entitled to an increased intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u32	Minister, I am not questioning what you are saying about the various projects that already exist. That was not the subject of my remarks. We have at our disposal a report from an association recognized for the seriousness of its work. This report very concretely points out three measures that you could implement fairly quickly rather than waiting for the end of the legislature. So you will have understood that I am not satisfied with your answer. Indeed, these important problems can affect anyone. In this very unequal world at the social level in which we live, specific assistance must be given to the disadvantaged. I am thinking in particular of psychological accompaniment. When one has the "chance" to work and have a decent income, the care of his mental health is integrated into the budget. But when you earn less than 14 euros per hour – I think, in particular, single women who face mourning – you can't afford that kind of spending, and it's the fallolade. Please be aware that my group intends to keep in touch with the associations that are struggling to improve the situation of these families and that we will certainly come back to you and question your colleague, Mrs Lalieux, about the issues that fall outside your purview.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, let me come back to the issues of volunteering and vaccination. After a few checks, it turns out that the question I had tabled was encoded, but that it was referred back to the Health Committee. It would make no sense to deal with it in this committee, since you answered the questions, Mr.Minister, that the speakers had the opportunity to reply and that I agree with the comments made by my colleagues. I therefore propose to add my question to the questions on this subject. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I now propose that we continue our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u34	Madam President, you suggested a possible review of the agenda for my colleague's inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u35	I saw that he had arrived well. I'm paying attention to time so that he can question the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u36	Madam President, the Act of 17 May 2019 establishing recognition of caregivers came into force on 1 October 2019, and the Implementing Order of 16 June 2020 came into force on 1 September 2020. The law of 12 May 2014, which is at the origin of the recognition of the close caregiver, provided that the law and the status of the close caregiver will be evaluated. The law of 17 May 2019, to which I referred first, which amends this law of 12 May 2014, is entirely part of it. It is expected that the evaluation will be presented to the House before December 31, 2021. I think it is important to await this evaluation before working on the existing regulation. This will allow identification of any problems and further improvements. The collection and exploitation of the data you have requested is ongoing with the administration as part of the evaluation. The results will be fully part of it. In this way we will be able to obtain the necessary figures. In addition to the quantitative data, it is also planned to collect qualitative data from the various partners involved in the system of recognition of close caregivers and the rights attributed to them. The aim is for this qualitative survey to be carried out very widely and for all interested parties to be addressed and heard. Both the sickness funds, the organisations in the field, the representatives of the carers, both federally and at Community and regional level, will be questioned. It is also intended to be able to hear the caregivers. Both the survey and the consultation will be scheduled in the coming months. On the basis of the results of both quantitative and qualitative analysis, it is possible to examine the concrete actions to be taken to meet the needs and responsibilities of those concerned in the care sector. I can inform you that in January 2021, 6,651 people were recognized as close caregivers, 62.25 per cent of caregivers were women, 37.75 per cent were men, 56.5 per cent were between the ages of 50 and 70, 21.4 per cent were between the ages of 30 and 50, and 18.5 per cent were between the ages of 70 and 90. The evaluation will be presented to you in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answers. We will pay attention to this assessment. The status of close caregiver is seen by the persons concerned as an important step. The evaluation will certainly examine whether adaptations need to be put in place to better meet needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u38	Madam President, Minister, many people were looking forward to this measure so that they could be recognised as a caregiver. This should have been done before 1 September 2020, but it was only then that many practical problems made it possible to do so. More people are looking forward to that extension. CD&V has also been a requesting party to extend that period. It is now possible to take one month's family leave, but we have provided in the law for this to be extended to six months. I understand that you still want to wait for the evaluation and then look at where you want to adjust, but let us also acknowledge carers and give them the opportunity to record more than one month, so to record a total of six months throughout the career. You know, a lot of people have to take care of their father, for example. After a number of years, for example, the care for the mother comes. Family leave can also be taken for the care of non-family members. So we can only welcome the fact that this is happening and that there are so many volunteers. Let us therefore give maximum support to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u39	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, as I mentioned in my general policy paper, special attention will be paid during this parliamentary term to new forms of coexistence. The society in which we live is very different from that which existed when the basic social security laws were adopted, for example the basic health and invalidity insurance law, which dates back to 1963. It is, of course, drawn up according to the standards of that time. The law has evolved, but the increase in new forms of society in recent years may cause problems in its application. I am thinking, for example, of co-rentors, co-housing, intergenerational housing, etc. A working group had been set up within the administration to examine the problem of living together, but the outbreak of the covid pandemic prevented this working group from making progress in its work. The members of this working group had to deal with the management of the effects of the pandemic on social security and focus on the priorities of the moment. However, this situation is temporary and the group will resume its activities as soon as possible. You are right to say that living together produces certain economies of scale, and in this sense, in order to make the most efficient use of limited resources, I am more in favour of an informed family modulation of the amounts of replacement income. I am thinking of Professor Cantillon's publication about ten years ago under the title Individualization of Social Rights, between utopia and error, which I believe is still topical. By considered, I mean that the adjustment of the amount of benefit must be socially equitable. For example, I believe that the combination of the professional income of one partner and the adjusted replacement income of the other partner should by no means result in a combined income below the poverty threshold for a couple. For compensatory allowances such as the previous healthcare allowance, I agree with you that cohabitation should not result in an disproportionate increase in expenditure. I have therefore asked the aforementioned working party to pay particular attention to this in the preparation of the proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u40	Minister, I understand that, in exceptional times, priorities must sometimes be shifted. In the meantime, the working group has also been used for other tasks, for the sake of corona. However, it seems essential to me that we seek tailor-made solutions. After all, we must not allow people living together to lose too much of their benefit. On the other hand, I fully agree with you that the resources of our social security are limited. So we need to apply a system of solidarity and see how best to do it tailor-made. I hope that this working group will soon be able to conclude its work. I will question you about this in a few months' time, to see what adjustments you want to make to meet the new forms of living together. We can only welcome it if people start living together, not only as a couple, but also with other people who see the benefits of it, both socially and financially. People should not be the victims of this by losing their benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u41	Madam Chair, Minister, I regret that the inquiry was transferred to you. The Prime Minister threw you the hot potato. I do not understand why he avoids dealing with this subject, even though it is part of his competence. Public procurement is the responsibility of the Prime Minister's Chancellery. My intervention concerns Smals, which is not only involved in social and health matters but in many areas (State security, ODA, electronic minutes, etc.). I therefore do not understand this transfer and I am quite disappointed that the Prime Minister is not taking his responsibilities and that he is not responding to such a sensitive and important question. Mr Minister, in Belgium, the vast majority of public service computerisation projects are dealt with by a single structure, namely the Smals ASBL. Created in 1939, Smals has always been very discreet in the execution of its missions. However, the study of its balance sheets reassures us of the state of health of the ASBL: its turnover ranges between 300 and 350 million euros. The members of Smals are different institutions, including social security institutions. We can mention Fedris, FAMIFIED, the Carrefour de la sécurité sociale Bank, the ONEM or the e-Health platform and the CPAS. They use the services of the ASBL for software development, security, the supply of computer equipment, storage, the secondment of specialized personnel or the business strategy consultancy. Smals has a quasi-monopoly in these sectors when it comes to providing the state. She has produced the Carrefour de la sécurité sociale Bank, Dimona, the e-Box, MyHandicap 2.0 and the electronic minutes. One might say that, when such a structure is so successful, it is thanks to its exceptional skills which enable it to win all public contracts launched by the authorities. But no, Smals is exempt from the legal competition procedure. It circumvents the law on public procurement, based on an exception in the law by which the public authorities may, for the purpose of carrying out a joint project, call on an external entity which is artificially assimilated to a part of their own administration. This exception also implies that the entity in question is under the effective control of the public authorities that use it. It therefore concerns specific cases, the conditions of which are not fulfilled in this case, since the various projects I have cited are essentially individual and non-common projects. icing on the cake for the ASBL, when the public authorities nevertheless decide to launch a public procurement, Smals is responsible for conducting the procedure on behalf of the State. Questions also arise about the nature of this old institution: a non-profit association that brings together such a large turnover, it is really rare. When we know that Frank Robben, who chairs his board of directors, is paid 150 000 euros to do so, we are even more surprised at this qualification of ASBL. However, it has two major advantages for Smals. First, an ASBL does not pay VAT. This is a very advantageous status in terms of social law compared to an internal service, since it is not subject to rules for the recruitment of civil servants, which allows for great flexibility in terms of human resources and working conditions. As Smals deploys hundreds of employees within social security agencies, we understand the rationale for this set-up, which aims to escape the rules related to the status of public servants. I would like to quote Mr Robben's comments from Le Vif/L'Express in 2013, where he welcomes this situation. He says: "This way of doing things makes it possible to settle many things informally". He also described the Smals work plan as pragmatic and flexible. Mr Robben's view is that legal frameworks are barriers, an embarrassment that must be circumvented in order to move quickly, to conduct his small business in a way that is free from scrutiny and procedures. You will admit, minister, that this kind of thinking is challenging for a person who is present at all levels of data collection and protection in our country. In passing, as I have done recently, Mr Robben's conflict of interest, who, as Chairman of the Board of Directors of Smals and director of eHealth and Carrefour de la sécurité sociale, plays both the role of the client and the supplier in this matter. What is your position on the exception used by Smals to circumvent the law on public procurement? Do you think that an entity responsible for the digitisation of public services should itself be a public service and not a private entity such as an ASBL? What do you think of Smals' status as an ASBL that allows it to circumvent tax laws and the status of civil servants? Has Smals been involved in the development of software related to the fight against the pandemic? What about the Doclr software used to summon in the context of vaccination and whose failures have been seen lately? Can you detail the procedure for awarding the contract for this particular case? Do you still intend to use Smals as part of the digitalization projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u42	Madam President, before any specific answer to the questions, certain factual elements should be corrected. Smals does not participate in public procurement published by its members. If external subcontracting is used by the institutions, Smals does not have a competitive position for the private market. Smals awarded public contracts to obtain the necessary resources to carry out the tasks entrusted to it by the members. And for some of these contracts, Smals enters into framework agreements as a central purchasing authority allowing its members and certain other contracting authorities to benefit from the conditions obtained. Robben is not the chairman of the administrative body, but he is the managing director and managing director of Smals. Your first question was this: what is your position on the exception used by Smals to circumvent the law on public procurement? Smals applies public procurement legislation to all contracts awarded to its suppliers. You are probably aiming at the possibility for Smals members to use it without competing with other suppliers. The tasks entrusted by Smals members to Smals are carried out live on the basis of the in house control provided for in Article 30 of the Law on Public Procurement. It is therefore not a matter of circumventing the law on public procurement for Smals members. Smals is controlled by members and works for more than 85%, i.e. 100%, for its members. This means that members can direct missions to Smals. The supervision of members falls within the legal and statutory powers which are detailed in the rules of procedure of the general meeting of which each member is a member. One of these competencies concerns the proposal and appointment of directors by members. Your second question was this: do you think that an entity responsible for the digitisation of public services should itself be a public service and not a private entity such as an ASBL? Smals is not an entity responsible for the digitisation of public services. It is a support organization that executes instructions. Smals essentially does two things: it provides resources and performs tasks according to the instructions given to it by its members. One third of its activity consists of providing long-term computer scientists. Its specialists work within the administration and under its direct control. Another third of its activities is the provision of short- and medium-term consultants. They are specialists who come from private firms and who also work directly within the administrations. In the final analysis, more than half of the remaining projects concern the provision of technical infrastructure or the implementation of programmes on the system of G-Cloud members, whether managed or not by Smals. It is therefore only a minority of the work that concerns the projects and the maintenance of the programmes and it is still carried out under the control of the administrations. I turn to the third question concerning the status of Smals as an asbl, which allows it to circumvent tax laws and the status of civil servants. For the Public Service, recruiting the required number of computer specialists is a major challenge. The tons of technological developments are heavy to implement for a single entity, while the partnerships between the administrations allow them to be confronted. Every formula that helps to solve the challenges must be taken into account, including an ASBL formula, which is entirely owned by the public sector, led by the senior officials of our administrations and controlled by the Court of Auditors. Smals is not subject to VAT simply because it is an association of organisations which are not themselves subject to VAT. In these circumstances, European law and the resulting Belgian law necessarily provide for this consequence. Therefore, members do not pay VAT on the services of Smals employees. On the other hand, Smals pays VAT on all purchases, which will not be deductible. Fourthly, did Smals intervene in the development of software related to the fight against the pandemic? What about the Doclr software used to summon in the context of vaccination and whose failures have been seen lately? Could you give us a detailed description of the procedure for awarding the contract for this particular case? The various authorities responsible for managing the covid-19 crisis have asked Smals to put in place a cloud call centre solution, a test recording platform and a vaccination reservation tool. The latter was entrusted to Doclr following a public procurement procedure in which tenders were requested from nine companies last January. Three bids were received on 18 January and bids were evaluated by the federated entities. The decision was accepted by the ICD Public Health and Smals notified the award decision. It is available via a link on www.corona/tracking.info, etc. Fifth, do you intend to use Smals in future as part of digitalization projects? Public services must function well, complete their missions and achieve the desired results. Public services under administrative contracts have autonomy as to their choice of the most appropriate legal means to carry out their tasks. Mr. Representative, here are some answers to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answers. You talked about factual adjustments to the information I gave. I didn't see where there were any adjustments. On the other hand, this confirmed our idea of Smals. On the other hand, I will make adjustments to your answer. You're talking about public procurement for Smals. The problem arises when members of the Smals call on the Smals. There, they circumvent the competition law for public procurement. After that, that Smals supplies itself to the market, it is a secondary element. It is the starting point that is problematic. You're saying that Smals members have control over the ASBL. But in this respect, the news is wrong. We learned last week that projects put in place by Smals are beyond democratic control, the control of its members, the government or Parliament. The Putting Data at the Center project has been set up without this being requested by any institution, entity or democratic body. During a state security search, Smals agents tried to confiscate hard drives. To State Security! It's still serious! This was not requested by anyone. So there's a problem with this ASBL. I think your answer doesn't reassure you at this level. I thought that for a socialist minister it would have been obvious that a company that manages public procurement for the state is under state control and that it is not a private company, even in the form of an ASBL. I expected a little more assertive response at this level. Unfortunately, you are not addressing this issue in a concrete and precise manner. For this reason, I am going to table a motion for a recommendation in which I ask the government to vote in favour of transforming Smals into a democratic public enterprise, so that it is under democratic control and that we can decide, in a democratic manner, on the competences of this undertaking, and to request an audit by the Court of Auditors on the functioning of Smals, and in particular on the public procurement procedures which are problematic here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u44	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr. Nabil Boukili and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, - Whereas the ASBL SMALS has a quasi-monopoly within the framework of public service computerisation projects; - Whereas a large number of public institutions, including social security institutions, are members of the Commission and use its services for software development, security, the supply of computer equipment, storage or secondment of personnel; - Whereas questions arise as to how SMLS avoids the application of competitive procedures by using an exception in the Public Procurement Act; - Whereas, when a competitive procedure is applied, it is also the SMALS which carries it out, which has been the case in particular in the context of the development of the call-up software for the vaccination campaign, the shortcomings of which have recently been reported in the press; - Whereas the operation of SMALS also raises questions with regard to two projects recently discovered by the newspaper Le Soir, namely the "Data at the center" project and the market for the renewal of the information technology of the State Security; - Whereas such a strategic and transversal undertaking for all public services must be transparent and under democratic control; asks the government - to support the transformation of SMLS into a democratic public enterprise - to request an audit by the Court of Auditors on the functioning of SMLS and in particular on public procurement procedures." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard Mr Nabil Boukili's speech and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - considering that the Smalls association has a near monopoly in the field of computerisation projects in public administrations; - having regard to the fact that a large number of public institutions, in particular social security institutions, are members of it and call on its services for software development, security, provision of ICT material, storage and even secondment of personnel; - whereas questions have arisen as to how Small circumvents the application of procedures with a call for competition by making use of an exception in the Public Procurement Act; - whereas, where a call for competition procedure is applied, which is also being conducted by Smalls, this was the case in particular for the development of the software for invitations to the vaccination campaign, the shortcomings of which were recently reported in the press; - whereas the operation of Smalls also raises questions with regard to two projects recently identified by the newspaper Le Soir, namely the "Putting Data at the Center" project and the public contract for the renewal of the State's ICT infrastructure; - whereas transparency and democratic control should be a priority for such a strategic and interrelated non-profit sector; asks the government - to speak out for the transformation of Smals into a democratic State - ask the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of the operation of Smalls, in particular with regard to public procurement procedures." A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Anja Vanrobaeys. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Anja Vanrobaeys. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u45	Madam President, Minister, my question follows an inquiry in Solidaris on February 3. So several weeks have passed since my question was tabled, but it seems to me that the question is still relevant. This survey highlights Belgium's poor perception of the role of social security in terms of solidarity and protection of the population. One in three people does not feel protected by the social system in Belgium, whether it is in the area of health care, pension or unemployment benefits or housing assistance. Two out of three people believe that they will not be protected in the same way as they are today, within three to five years. In addition, 79% of those surveyed felt that access to unemployment benefits was becoming increasingly difficult. One in two people – it's not nothing – believes that the efforts made are unfair in terms of social security funding. Eight in ten felt that other sources of financing should be considered, such as financial revenues, stock exchange investments, large assets or GAFAMs. Minister, could you let us know what you think of this investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u46	Colleagues, I have taken note with interest of the recent Solidaris survey on the perception of social protection. It reveals the concerns of our fellow citizens about the evolution of our social protection system. I understand their concerns, especially in the difficult context we are currently encountering. In the course of this Parliament, I intend to ensure that these are answered. The virus affects not only our health but also our lives in general. The circumstances are difficult for many people mentally but also in terms of income and security of life in general. As I say every day, we are all together and it is only by solidarity that we will be able to overcome this period. Social security is like a safety buoy. It was built for that. I read in the survey that more than two thirds of people also perceive it this way and feel well protected. Unfortunately, however, there is also one third of those interviewed who feel less well protected in terms of health care, pensions, unemployment benefits, etc. The majority of this third party is afraid of turning into precariousness. People are worried about the future and are afraid that social security will lose its protection force. We need to reassure them and I want to reassure them. Social security, for me, must remain that emergency buoy. Its role must be ensured today and for the future. As part of my tasks, I will assume my responsibilities to ensure that this can be achieved through concrete measures. As far as I am concerned, I can answer this to you. In our country, almost the entire population is covered by compulsory health care insurance. The number of persons not covered officially residing in Belgium is estimated by the OECD to be 1% of the population. This is little, but we must of course ensure that this percentage is as low as possible. In our health care insurance, specific measures have been taken to improve the accessibility of health care. I am thinking in particular of the intervention increased by insurance, the maximum to be billed, the maximum to be billed social, the third party paying social, the overall medical file, the status "chronic illness", etc. I am aware that, despite this, access to care remains difficult for some people. In some cases, this situation is linked to the phenomenon of non-take-up, which is the fact that people do not make use of their rights and therefore find themselves in social and financial difficulties. This is obviously damaging and sometimes due to information gaps. It is therefore essential to focus on good communication and automation where possible. Recent developments have already taken place in this area, notably through the organisation of an annual proactive flow allowing mutuals to identify potential beneficiaries of the increased health care insurance intervention. This flow was introduced by a royal decree of 26 March 2020. Measures have also recently been taken for insurance indemnities. Since 1 January, a minimum allowance has been introduced from the fifth month of incapacity for work and no longer from the seventh month, as was the case before. The grant of this minimum allowance will be anticipated gradually, so that it will be granted from the beginning of the incapacity, as early as 2024. For the moment, a single person with a gross salary of 1,700 euros per month (net income of 1,575 euros) has his income guaranteed for one month in case of illness; after exhaustion of the month, this income falls to 908 euros net per month. With the introduction of the minimum, this will become 1 150 euros per month. This is therefore a significant improvement. At cruising speed, a budget of 170 million is planned to do so. For the moment, the effect of this adjustment is less visible because, under the Bertels Act, there is an allowance for covid-19 during the primary incapacity for work which aligns its amount with that of the temporary unemployment corona force majeure, but from the moment when the temporary unemployment corona force majeure and therefore this supplement will cease to exist, thousands of employees will be supported by this measure. In the framework of the government agreement, a historically new multi-annual budget, in addition to the fully allocated social envelopes, of EUR 2.16 billion by 2024 has been made available to significantly increase the lowest benefits towards the poverty line. The main expenditure is: 1,182 billion net – after a tax return effect of 35% – for the increase of minimum pensions, in combination with intermediate indices. Assuming that the welfare envelope increases by 1% annually by 2024, the amount will be 22.6% higher than in 2020. So I am talking about the system in place for employees and self-employed people and the proportional increase for civil servants. Secondly, social assistance benefits (GRAPA, integration income, replacement allowance) will be increased by 10.75%, in addition to indexing and allocation of welfare envelopes – a quarter a year. In total, this means an increase of 22.3% by 2024. This involves EUR 193 million, EUR 162 million and EUR 126 million respectively. It is worth adding 35 million for the abolition of the price of love in the integration allowance. In addition, an increase in minimum unemployment benefits is added to the indexation and welfare envelope: four increases of 1% and 127 000 each for a total of 4.5%. At cruising speed, the result is an additional cost of 134 million euros. Apart from these three aspects, the scope of the social electricity tariff will also be extended in 2021 and 2022. This implies a budget of EUR 88 million. In addition, I will ensure that reintegration into the labour market can take place under the best possible conditions, based on a multidisciplinary approach and in consultation with the relevant actors (workers, employers, doctors and mutual societies). The new forms of common life will also be the subject of a specific examination. I would ask that consideration be given to how social security could be adapted to take account of these new societal realities. In particular with regard to the financing of social security, balance allocations have been extended beyond 2020. This will ensure the financial balance and the provision of social benefits. Modernising our social security system is necessary. It will be carried out in consultation and collaboration with the social partners, which are key players in our social protection system. Consideration will be given to this. The sustainable and equitable financing of our social security will undoubtedly be an important part of this reflection. As mentioned in the survey, social protection overcomes the field of social security, also in the field of health. I plan measures and actions to strengthen social protection. As stated in the Government Agreement, we emphasize good accessibility and coverage for all while ensuring a good quality: a health care system adapted to the needs of our citizens. We will strengthen prevention and continue to support chronic patients. In consultation with the federated entities, primary care needs to be upgraded and further strengthened. In line with the announcement, an increased structural investment in hospital staff under the social agreement is also foreseen. In addition, I am working on a structural reform of hospital financing. Accessible health care and its improvement (e.g. dental care) is a priority of the government agreement and my policy note. This is and will continue to be an important project. Our country has a long tradition of providing social protection for all. This vision must be guaranteed and I consider it my mission to be the co-guard of it. Together with all the partners involved, I want to take my responsibility to strengthen and restore confidence in our social security system and to ensure its existence in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u47	Minister, thank you for your full answer. I obviously welcome everything that has already been achieved in such a short time by this government, but you know, as I do, that this crisis of the covid has increased health and socio-economic inequalities in Belgium. The link between the risk of infection and wealth has been the subject of an in-depth analysis by the Dutch-speaking newspaper De Tijd. It also shows that infection rates are highest in the poorest neighbourhoods in Flanders. As you pointed out, Minister, it is indeed important that social security be refinanced today. You talked about balance. We must welcome the maintenance of this balance, but I believe that it must also be refinanced with creativity. There is also a need to place costs on the widest shoulders and to ensure greater tax justice. As you have also said, this social security must be adapted to our times. We know that today there are household compositions, cohabitation. Attitudes are changing and families are changing. Social security must also have an equal vision between men and women. It must not leave anyone at the edge of the road and give hope to the citizens who are now in great difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u48	Minister, first of all, if all the people who were surveyed by the Solidaris inquiry had had the opportunity to hear from you before participating in this survey, I am not convinced that it would have been different. I'm telling you honestly. You obviously point out that, in other countries, there is no system like ours. But by seeing that elsewhere it is worse, we forget to defend what we have, in a correct way. That is not the case at all. You rightly highlight the general health situation and anxiety that exists during this pandemic. You say people are affected mentally, but also physically. I don't know what neighborhood you live in, but I can tell you that when you don't have financial problems and you have to go through this pandemic, which is something heavy, you're still less likely to have serious mental health concerns. I'm not saying that for people who have income, it's not complicated, but the main thing is the financial issue; I still want to tell you. What reality do we live in? The people who participated in this survey are talking about a feeling, but in my opinion, it's more than that. They say it because they live it. Today we are facing thousands of workers who are unemployed together, with 70% of their wages. This government does not decide to increase that percentage, and that is already a problem. You talked about the dentist. To provide for measures in this regard is included in the legislation. This is important because many mothers have to choose not to bring their child to the dentist. There is also the whole problem of kines. Unfortunately, in our country, we do not have a medical home in every neighbourhood where the population can go to a doctor without money. Madam President, I'll be back within 30 seconds. We have very concrete proposals to make for medicines with our kiwi model. It would not only reduce the burden for the patient, but it would also bring money into social security. Of course, I give you details of the 45 billion that the previous government offered to the big multinationals. We hope that the union struggle will ensure that our money is returned, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u49	I would like to thank those who initiated this debate, that is, those who conducted the Solidaris inquiry and those who responded and who tried to put words on their feelings and, sometimes, their ill-being. Minister, I note that commitments have been made and you have reminded them of them. They highlight a concrete response to this investigation. There is a lack of transparency on the nature of the social security system and on how it works. There is also a lack of transparency on what is possible to ask a welfare state that pays attention to the individuals who live there. For us, it is important to ensure that all the measures you have mentioned are highlighted and communicated, because we know that the automation of rights will also go through. I no longer count the times when, since the beginning of this crisis, people have come back to me to tell me that they were in trouble. By looking together at the work and possible approaches, a number of things could already be answered. I know that you and your colleague, Minister Lalieux, want to avoid people falling because once they fall, it is very difficult to lift them up. Let's not have to do this exercise! The principle that must prevail over all these measures is the question of fairness. If people no longer have confidence in their social security system, it is also because they sometimes feel unfair about what can be offered to them. I will address this issue in a next oral question for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u50	Madam Chair, Minister, the debate about reporting amateur sports and sports income to ONSS often comes up. A work auditor made it one of his priorities. Controls are promised to "recalcitrant" clubs. Some have already been carried out. What we all want is first and foremost the sport practice by the majority of our fellow citizens for the benefits it brings and the positive values that any sport conveys. We also want a healthy sports world that can ensure the emancipation of those who make up it: mentors, athletes, volunteers, supporters, etc. We also hope that the efforts and energy invested can be compensated at their fair value, all in a clear and precise framework that avoids a certain administrative burden on sports clubs and random legal interpretations depending on the institutions. Formally, there is a contract of employment as soon as there is a benefit, remuneration and a link of subordination. In addition to associative work, which still has little consensus, different systems of employment contracts coexist (general, paid sportsman, student, article 17, etc.).). The derogation from the Volunteer Law introduced by the FPS Financial Circular of 6 January 2010 and the voluntary status are also frequently cited, with adjustments in terms of benefits and the specific ceiling for the personnel in charge of the sports sector in particular. Often run by volunteers, it is not easy for NSOs to find themselves there in their legal obligations with regard to social laws. Minister, how do you feel about this? What is your administration's opinion on this matter? What role does ONSS play today? The government agreement does not provide for anything concrete. What initiatives do you intend to undertake to achieve a clear framework that avoids abusive interpretation? Is there any consultation with sports federations or the Communities, which are competent in the field of sport?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u51	Mr Prévot, in fact, some athletes may, from a certain level, be in a grey area between the simple exercise of their sport as a leisure, as a volunteer, and that of paid sport, where one is a worker. This boundary is often thin, since the applicable status does not prejudice the athlete's efforts, which are often of a professional nature, but which from a socio-economic point of view are rather categorised as volunteers. For this reason, SIRS, in collaboration with its partners, has developed a Guide for Paid Athletes. This guide contains the main rules to be observed for these workers in the field of social security, work and employment, and has been published on the SIRS website. In addition, the approved SIRS Annual Plan for Combating Social Fraud, 2021, provides for a national prevention campaign for paid athletes, with the aim of disseminating this guide and increasing knowledge of regulation. As part of this campaign, SIRS, in collaboration with ONSS, will soon be organizing an information session for the leaders of amateur football clubs. The campaign will target a few sports in particular, but it will be primarily preventive. In the next phase, preventive controls will then be organised within sports clubs. That is what I can say, dear colleague, in answer to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answers. You mentioned it at the outset in your answer: you spoke of a grey area. I think that's the whole problem. I know the amateur sport very well. It is no secret to anyone that there are certain sports in which money circulates on very small levels. It's really about amateur sport. I have heard that there will soon be information sessions organized by the SIRS. But I very sincerely believe that we should be able to provide a political response to that money. It's about black money, which circulates in these little clubs. Perhaps we could, like what has been done for associative work - even if the debate is still under way - allow these clubs to enter a system, whether we know it, whether we love it or not, without being illegal. I know that some club presidents would like us to get more clarity. I will not fail to inquire and to see the work that will be organized by the SIRS. I will surely come back to you shortly, and perhaps with elements that would lead me to propose a parliamentary text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u53	Mr Minister, these are challenging times for you, especially in the area of public health, and everyone can see that this organisation is not well organised institutionally. People walk at each other's feet or even don't know where the feet and toes reach. That is not only our analysis, but also the analysis in the coalition agreement, which preaches that the organisation of public health will in future become a competence of the deprived entities. The ambition of the coalition agreement is also wider. There would be a state reform in preparation to take action from 2024 onwards. How exactly is this organised and handled? I put the question to the Ministers for Institutional Reforms how his cabinet organises. Apparently, Mrs. Verlinden has two employees in her cabinet. Mr Clarinval has six and a half. Mrs Verlinden did say that there would be experts on all other Cabinets, and especially on the Vice-Kabinets. Especially for you, the question is interesting, because by definition the subject of public health comes into the spotlight. After all, it is in the coalition agreement. How was that handled with you? Do you have specific employees or external expertise for this? How is that organized in your cabinet?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u54	Madam President, Mr Loones, thank you for your kind words. It is indeed an important theme, also in my domain. You first asked me how this was handled in my policy cell. My policy cell is partly built up for the Deputy Prime Minister and I have policy cells for specific domains in which I am active. The follow-up of the institutional debate and the necessary reforms takes place both from my policy cell as Deputy Prime Minister, as well as from the policy cells for my specific fields of expertise. On my policy cell Deputy Prime Minister, one person has been specifically designated to follow this theme. This person is also following up on other files. Within the Public Health and Social Affairs Policy Cells, the institutional issue is cross-cuttingly monitored and coordinated by the Head of Cabinet and the Deputy Head of Cabinet. You asked me if I've been looking for outside experts. I didn't. I don't have any plans right now to look for outside experts. Hopefully, together with the other ministers and all our policy cells and administrations, I will be strong enough to deal with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic411x.u55	Minister, I am a little surprised at your answer, because I am getting the same answer from the other Deputy Prime Ministers. They also say that they do have someone who follows it up, but at the same time that person follows up on some other files and does not spend all his time on them. I would have expected something different from your cabinet, given that the government agreement is so specific that there will be a division for public health. There is still a lot of work to be done on its organisation, and also because the government agreement stipulates that there will be asymmetric policies already in this legislature. In particular, for a power which we know will be split up, it is interesting to explore this asymmetrical slope already in this legislature. I therefore call on you to develop additional plans in this area.
