ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u1	Mr President, Madam Minister, a few weeks ago we learned that the police officer sentenced in July 2020 to one year's suspended imprisonment for beating a Sudanese migrant is still stationed in the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles area. Moreover, the disciplinary procedure still seems to have failed. Minister, how is it that this policeman, who has been convicted by the courts, has been reintegrated into his area? Is this an example of the zero tolerance policy you have announced to us? What disciplinary sanctions are to come? Finally, why is the disciplinary procedure still not completed to date, i.e. one after the fact?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Chanson, the police inspector concerned was convicted in first instance on 17 July 2020. The King's Prosecutor provided a copy of the first judgement of 22 October 2020 to the Police College, while stating that the police officer concerned had appealed against the judgement of 31 October. A few weeks later, the police college learned that the case would only be decided on 10 February 2022 before the Court of Appeal. The police officer, on that date, was still temporarily suspended with some of his treatment withheld. In view of the 13 months before the appeal was filed, the police college reinstated the police officer in a position in which he remained uncontacted with the field or the public. The Police College will rule in the disciplinary proceedings in due course, i.e. when a final criminal decision has been taken by the Court of Appeal. In the present case, the disciplinary authority does not have any information to enable it to fully assess the establishment and accountability of the facts and is therefore obliged to await the final criminal decision. To this end, it temporarily interrupted administrative proceedings in accordance with article 56 of the Disciplinary Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u3	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I will come back to the matter later when we have more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u4	Since Mr Joy Donné was absent, his question No 55017430C was not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, a few days ago the press reported the story of Marion, a young woman who was subjected to street harassment on her way to work. In an attempt to file a complaint, she went to the Molenbeek police station where police officers were likely to have laughed at her. They told him that it was impossible to file a complaint for this type of fact and that street harassment did not exist in their communes. These officers also minimized the facts by arguing that Marion would never be heard for street harassment anyway. Of course, Marion's case is not isolated. In my personal capacity alone, I know several other women who, too, have experienced this situation. Minister, we cannot tolerate this kind of attitude on the part of some of our police officers. It is really crucial that the fight against sexism and violence against women, whether psychological or physical, is an issue to which our front-line agents are sensitized. Minister, the law of 22 May 2014 to combat sexism in public space is precisely the legal basis that allows women to file complaints of street harassment. Are all police officers well aware of this law? When is their training addressed? In view of his apparent lack of knowledge, should we not consider a "pike of reminder"? Furthermore, what are you planning to put in place to ensure that this situation does not happen again, neither in Brussels nor elsewhere?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u6	Mr. President, Mrs. Song, street harassment is well present in society. This phenomenon is taken into account at different levels, in legislative and preventive terms. More specifically, for the Brussels Region, the phenomenon is reflected in the Comprehensive Security and Prevention Plan and the Brussels Plan to Combat Violence against Women launched in 2020. The latter plan was endorsed by multiple partners active in the Territory in the police areas. Since the launch of the plan, and in view of the growing visibility of the phenomenon, several Brussels police areas have implemented various projects on the theme of street harassment, in particular in terms of training and/or civilian patrol orientation. In particular, with regard to the Brussels-West police area, a training and awareness plan will be deployed later this year. In a first phase, front-line staff will be trained not only in the legislative and procedural aspects, but also in the reception and hearing of victims of such harassment. In addition, an awareness-raising campaign will be conducted with all operational staff to increase the vigilance of street police officers and to act on ex officio complaints. More generally, this issue is given great attention from the basic training of police inspectors, with ongoing training on the reception and assistance of victims also enabling the development of essential skills and skills in this context. Finally, it is the primary responsibility of the authorities of the local police areas to ensure that their staff update their knowledge and develop their skills. In this context, they may apply to approved schools coming out of their territory in case of need for more specific training. For example, the Brussels Police Academy organized trainings exclusively on street harassment and sexism on a daily basis. I would also point out that the reception of victims is one of the themes included in the training plan 2020-2021, which sets out the training topics to be given priority attention. I intend to continue to invest in this type of training, as I indicated in my policy statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for all this information. Of course, we can only be pleased to hear that these plans have been put in place, but also those projects with the theme of street harassment in the areas you mentioned. I know the training of police officers, but also the ongoing thematic training that police officers can decide to follow. Nevertheless, this remains at the discretion of our police officers. I regret the lack of knowledge of most of our agents, perhaps even their lack of interest. I throw a bottle at the sea here for you. You say you want to look at this issue and work very carefully in the coming months. I'd like to look at the basic training of our police officers who are at the police school for a year. Shouldn't a larger curriculum be included that addresses harassment-related issues, so that the basic training of police officers leaving the academy is much broader than the current training? Knowing that you are attentive to it, I think we will be able to discuss it again in the near future. Thank you already for what you're putting in place today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u8	Debates of the European Parliament 55017639C by Mr Joy Donné is without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u9	Minister, on May 12, the RTBF released the documentary "SalePute" by Myriam Leroy and Florence Hainaut on the cyberharassment of women. The documentary recalls the extent to which many well-known women are victims of misogyny barely descriptible on social networks. These women must suffer daily insults from men who want to intimidate them and who do not hesitate to make threats of rape, torture or death against them. Of course, this violence is not without consequences on their psychological state and on their working lives. We cannot tolerate this situation. We must therefore do everything possible to stem the scourge of misogynistic cyber-harassment, which obviously leads to better police follow-up of these cases. When reporting to the police, women victims of cyber-harassment must be heard, taken seriously and investigations must be systematically opened. The insult, it should be recalled, is punishable by our Penal Code. Minister, over the past three years, on average, how many complaints of cyberharassment have been filed by women? How many of them have resulted in a sanction? Are our police officers adequately trained to receive complaints from women about cyberharassment? What measures are in place to combat cyber-harassment and, in particular, the one to which women are subjected? What are the effects? What projects are currently being studied to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u10	Dear colleague, in 2018, 7,875 cyber-harassment incidents were recorded by the police in the BNG police data bank. In 2019, there were 7,860 recordings and 5,515 in the first three quarters of 2020. This represents a decrease of 272 facts compared to the same period of 2019 (5,787 facts recorded in 2019). It should be noted that there may also be some time between the commission of the facts and the filing of the complaint with the police. With regard to information on victims and their gender, it is unfortunately not yet possible, on the basis of the information available in the BNG, to provide reliable data on the subject. The Federal Police Service is also working to provide this data. Finally, for the punishable facts, I refer you to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice. Among the investments to be made in the training I mentioned in my policy statement, those aimed at receiving victims must be given a special place. In general, this fundamental aspect of police work has already received considerable attention, both in the framework of basic training and through ongoing training on the reception of victims. It is necessary to continue in this direction and pay more attention to the quality of reception when police officers are confronted with specific forms of victimization, such as the one you put forward. Among the training priorities included in the federal training plan are the adequate reception of victims, but also the fight against cybercrime on a daily basis, in order to enable front-line workers to properly act on complaints and to ensure that adequate follow-up can be provided. As part of the ongoing training for reference police officers, special attention is paid to events occurring on social media and by extension on the Internet, on the basis of a legally protected criterion such as gender. In this area, good practices are shared and advice is given on how to treat victims. The services of the Directorate-General of the Judicial Police do not carry out autonomous research on cyber-harassment or cyber-bullying, but provide support to local police areas or the judiciary in their judicial files. However, if elements of offences are discovered by the service during these Internet patrols, the territorially competent police area will be contacted and informed of the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u11	Minister, thank you for your information. I am pleased to see how central cyber-harassment is not only in your policy, but also in the ongoing training of reference police officers and the basic training of our police officers. You're testifying to the fact that things have moved lately. Social media is central to our society. We have begun certain training processes and processes and, like you, we must continue to do so. I hope that in a few months we will see the improvement of this beginning of work that you have implemented, which is why I thank you already.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u12	Madam Minister, I would like to take stock with you in the light of the latest events, the extent of which we know but not the outcome, that is to say, this cavalry of a military who had been registered by the OCAM and who had, among other things, made threats to a public figure, Marc Van Ranst. Madam Minister, my question is very important: are other public figures in these same situations, namely, to benefit from the protection of the state? Who covers the costs for the safety of these people and what are the costs for the protection of public figures? Are there any figures for these costs in recent years?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u13	Collègue Jadin, the Directorate of Protection is composed of three entities: first the detachment near the Royal Palace providing protection for members of the royal family, then the detachment near SHAPE providing protection for the SACEUR, and finally, the central unit providing protection for threatened persons. For obvious safety reasons, I will not disclose the exact number of people currently receiving protection. However, I can tell you that the Directorate of Protection provides permanent or ad hoc protection for more than ten people who are actually at risk. In addition to these, foreign delegations are visiting our territory. Please be aware that the decision to grant permanent or temporary close protection is taken by the Crisis Centre on the basis, inter alia, of a threat analysis carried out by the OCAM and/or judicial information. This close protection mission is entrusted to the DAP in accordance with the Ministerial Directive of 23 December 2002 on federal missions to be carried out by the local police during special protection missions for persons and movable and immovable property. Protection missions also comply with the circular of 1 March 2004 of the College of Attorneys General to the Courts of Appeal on the protection of persons, officials of the State and private persons at risk. Currently, the majority of the costs associated with close protection missions are borne by the federal police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u14	Madam Minister, I am the one who thanks you. We learn it every day. I did not actually ask for the identity of those under close protection or under supervision. It must be noted that, in spite of everything, we are in a situation which is perhaps a little more important than in recent years. It will be necessary to check again whether all these protocols are applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u15	Madam Minister, at the moment, a real manhunt is taking place in Flanders to get hold of a soldier on the list of extremists of the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM) for his sympathy with the far right. His colleagues describe him as a far-right mad gun who is not afraid of violence. This man, accustomed to manipulating weapons, is therefore extremely dangerous as he managed to take them into his cavalry. If it is of course a member of the Defence, I cannot help worrying about any similar cases in our police. Such extremism has its place nowhere. So, Madam Minister, I would like to be reassured about the mechanisms to prevent such individuals from evolving in the ranks of the police. Are there any police officers on the OCAM terrorist and extremist list? Do internal mechanisms and protocols exist to prevent dangerous and openly extreme right-wing individuals from being part of the police? Has there ever been a report on a possible rise of the far right within the police? If so, what are the conclusions? If not, would it be possible to ask?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u16	Madam Minister, the case of the military who had been registered by the intelligence services for their proximity to the far right has raised many questions and revealed a lot of malfunctions with regard to the monitoring of information when a person is registered by the intelligence services. Although I hope that no police officer is close to extremist circles – to the left or to the right – I wonder, however, whether the current system for monitoring police officers is up to expectations. Minister, are there any police officers currently registered with the intelligence services? Do you know any police officers close to the ideals of the far right or left? How many racist and even extremist behaviour on the part of police officers have been observed in recent years? What about the consequences for these policemen?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u17	Madam Minister, we have all had the word "disfunction" in our mouths for the last few weeks in this matter concerning the management of the OCAM list. If this is a situation that directly affects National Defence, it is the overall management of individuals listed and registered on the OCAM list that raises questions, particularly with respect to the connections and exchange of information between federal government departments and departments. In this connection, it has recently been possible to hear a more than alarming observation from the management of the R Committee concerning a disinvestment qualified as a chronicle and which seems even more important than what had been pointed out in recent years, particularly in the context of the recommendations of the commission attacks. After five years, operational and investment problems remain acute in the area of intelligence, but also, it seems, in the area of investigation and police follow-up, since the connections and updating of computer systems are also mentioned. I asked you earlier about these specific issues. I will ask your colleague from the Department of Justice, but I think it would be useful to hear from you, especially about the procedures that are in place. Minister, what is the current data management process on the OCAM list? What exchanges and updates alerts are in place to communicate automatically and simultaneously to the State departments concerned when a person is registered on the OCAM list or changes their status? Do the local authorities have full access to the OCAM list for a resident of the municipality concerned? Were information about Conings managed by the police and, if so, by what services and when? What was the police follow-up decided as soon as Conings was ranked on the OCAM list? What was the evolution of this follow-up when it was classified as Level 3? What procedures do they inform you directly, Minister, as well as federal police management, of updates and new rankings on the list? In concrete terms, what measures have been taken by the Federal Police since August last year and the report of the State Security Service? Precisely, what recommendations regarding the filing and exchange of information between departments and services still need to be implemented by your services in the follow-up to the recommendations of the Attentats Committee? Finally, what mechanism is still in place at the level of the federal police in connection with Mr. Conings' research and the level of threat that has been identified for certain locations? I know you won't be able to answer me in detail, but I'm asking you in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u18	Mr. Ducrame is not here and Mr. Aouasti is coming. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u19	Colleagues, a series of processes and procedures are being put in place within the police organization to ensure that its staff adhere to and respect the values advocated by the police organization. These processes and procedures also aim to detect possible signs of radicalisation or extremism. This includes screening for engagement, periodic evaluation, and social media screening. In accordance with the commitment made in my policy statement, the analyses and work are also under way in order to set up a screening during a career. Through training, staff members receive courses on anti-racism law, ethics, awareness-raising courses on radicalization and visits to the Dossin barracks. To be clear, as we speak, there is no member of the police services on the OCAM list. In case of detection of signs of radicalisation or extremism, relevant information shall be transmitted to the appropriate service, such as the territorially competent local task force, for follow-up purposes. In the event of confirmation of the information collected and according to its nature and severity, appropriate measures shall be taken: judicial follow-up, disciplinary follow-up, orderly measures, withdrawal of weapons and prohibition of access to them. The common data bank is updated in real time for all relevant partners and these services must inform everyone of each new development and/or information that has been added to an entity in the common data bank via an alert. In addition to this possibility of notification, any new entity is discussed and dealt with in the various forums. There are also various national working groups and/or CTGIC forums that also put certain entities on the agenda to ensure that there is also national follow-up via the Radicalism Plan working groups. This is in addition to the functioning of the local task forces already mentioned. Information on Mr Conings has been managed since June 2020. It is followed by the local Limburg task force and the national working group on the far right within the framework of the Radicalism Plan. Since February 2021, by decision of the local Limburg task force, Mr. Conings has been taken up in the common data bank as a potentially violent extremist. On the basis of this database, all relevant information concerning the entities that are included shall be managed and shared with the services concerned. Mr Pivin and Mr Aouasti, as far as research is concerned, all investigative activities take place at the instigation of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the investigating judge. To this end, the staff and resources allocated vary according to the nature of the missions requested. All available resources, both police and defence, are being used to carry out this research. These include specialized units, tracking dogs, aerial support with drones and helicopters, the Explosives Removal and Destruction Service (EDEDS), etc. The Director-Coordinator of the Federal Police of the Limburg District coordinates the articulation of forces in the province when a mechanism is in place. In support of the efforts of the local police, it organizes an adequate police service to protect potentially threatened targets 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. Research activities regularly employ several hundred people. Last Saturday, for example, 200 police officers were mobilised in this framework. Here again, the federal police can count on the possible support of the Defence, which operates under the command of the police. Mr Aouasti, the police have made the necessary international reports. At the level of the investigation, various requests for international legal assistance have been made, and these are of course covered by the secrecy of the investigation. In addition, our neighbouring countries have provided us with considerable specialized support for research. Colleagues, since this is an ongoing judicial inquiry, nothing can be communicated on this subject without the consent of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. Finally, Mr Pivin, I would like to come back to you with regard to the Commission's recommendations which have yet to be implemented with regard to the filing between departments and services. Under the previous government, a consultation committee comprising representatives of the various security services had been set up under the direction of the Ministers of the Interior and Justice. Their work resulted in a vision memorandum setting out the main objective as well as the directions of a Bank-Carrefour for Security. The latter is not a separate new database, but should be an effective system for security services in terms of IT architecture. It must ensure a secure interconnectivity between the different databases and must not endanger projects such as I-Police. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u20	Madam Minister, you have answered each of my questions, and I thank you for that. You also referred to the career screening, which you had already told us about in your policy statement. Of course, I can only encourage you to put it in place. In any case, I will support you in this direction. Thank you again for your positive answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u21	Madam Minister, thank you for your very clear answer. In addition to the screening procedures already deployed as part of a wide-ranging reform, I note that to date no federal police officers have been included in the files drawn up by the OCAM. This information can only satisfy me in the light of our recent concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u22	Mr President, I would just like to thank the minister for answering all the questions I have asked her.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u23	Madam Minister, first of all, I apologize for my late arrival, but coming in one minute and thirty from one building to another is a little difficult. So you've already started answering when I arrived - and that's quite legitimate. Thank you, anyway, for your answers. It is obviously reassuring to hear that no federal police are registered with the OCAM. It is also reassuring that the screenings that must be made continue, that cooperation in Mr Conings' particular international case is effective, with the support of our European colleagues. This is really a point of interest for my party. Indeed, whether in the army or the police, the far right uses the authority and strength of the State body for its murderous purposes, which is very dangerous. We must therefore redouble our vigilance. In any event, I thank you for your complete, clear and accurate answers, which demonstrate your determination to the far right. I hope that we will not have to relive all this through the procedures that are and will continue to be put in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u24	Minister, on Thursday 20 May, the Club de Bruges won the first place in the Belgian football championship after a game against Anderlecht's sporting. After the match, in a "festive" spirit against the fans, Noa Lang, a club player, sang an anti-Semitic song. I quote him in French: "I would rather die than be a Jewish from Anderlecht's sport!" These comments have nothing to do with the folklore characteristic of such a victory: they are openly anti-Semitic statements against fans excited by the fervor of the conquered title. It should be noted that Noa Lang was a champion of the Netherlands in 2019 when he served at the Ajax Amsterdam. A few days after these anti-Semitic songs, he was named best hope of the Belgian championship by the Pro League. The same Pro League deplored the words without condemning them and the Club de Bruges, owner of the player, did not condemn these words and did not see any anti-Semitic implication. This kind of talk is not isolated. Remember that the Bruges fans had chanted "who doesn't jump is Jewish" or "all the Jews are gay" in other matches in 2019 – and I quote only examples among others. These discriminatory acts, whether racist, anti-Semitic, Islamophobic or homophobic, have no place in or outside a football stadium – or any other sport. These are offences in the eyes of the laws on incitement to hatred and certainly facts that fall within the scope of Articles 23 and 23bis of the Football Act. Minister, as a result of this, have any measures been taken, in particular, under the Football Act? More generally, could you provide us with the number of complaints of discriminatory acts or statements in the world of football? Could you report on the follow-up to these complaints? How many were considered admissible? How many sanctions have been imposed? If so, are you considering strengthening anti-discrimination measures in the world of football in order to stem this phenomenon?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u25	Mr President, Mr Prévot, awareness will be effectively targeted, among other things, at the police. The message must be very clear, in particular, that racism and discrimination have no place in society, and therefore not in football stadiums, and that each of them has a role to play in this regard. After all, we expect the police to pursue a strict policy of criminalizing racist and discriminatory acts. To date, three people have been banned from the stadium because of acts of racism. My objective is to develop a policy that allows rapid and effective response if such acts are committed and to take firm action against the perpetrators of racist and discriminatory acts. If we really want to achieve a policy that will enable us to react quickly and effectively, everyone must play its part: on the one hand, the police and the authorities involved in enforcement and repression and, on the other hand, the football world itself. A firm position on the part of the world of football could be a clear signal in this regard. However, this policy involves not only implementing and suppressing but also raising awareness. This awareness must be directed to clubs, the police, supporters' federations and the media. The message must be very clear, in particular, that racism and discrimination have no place in society, and therefore not in the stages either. Through incentives to increase resistance to racism and discrimination and the detection of such acts, I will invite the world of football to actively develop or cooperate on concrete proposals, initiatives and projects. As a result, the Ghent Attorney General requested the Bruges police services to prepare a report on the facts. The minutes should be drawn up on the basis of the Act of 30 July 1981 to punish certain acts inspired by racism or xenophobia. In the general national database, for the first three quarters of 2020, seven offences were registered in relation to racism or xenophobia in one stage. In 2019, six records relating to this type of discrimination had been recorded. In 2018, this number was 12 recorded facts. It is not possible for us to say with certainty that all these facts have occurred in the context of football.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u26	Madam Minister, thank you. Indeed, a few minutes ago, I asked your colleague, Minister of Justice, about the same subject. Although he pointed out that the legislative arsenal, particularly the Football Act, was sufficient, it still appears that this kind of unacceptable speech and act are commonplace in and around the stadiums, and in our society in general. I am glad to hear your unambiguous speech to condemn these acts. The Football law makes it possible to carry out actions but unfortunately I have the impression, when one sees the reaction of the Club de Bruges or the tidyness of the Pro League, that these behaviors are not yet sufficiently condemned and that one remains in a certain acceptance by virtue of folklore or other, which is completely intolerable. I hear, of course, your willingness to condemn these words and actions. Just as I did with your colleague from Justice, I invite you to work together to have an even more proactive policy in this area. Indeed, we would all have to win.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u27	Question No 55018072C by Mr Hervé Rigot is postponed. The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 55018114C) by Mr Cogolati. He's not here. His question expires. Since Ms. Sophie Rohonyi was absent from her question No. 55018140C, that question became moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u28	Mr. President, Minister, the Interior FPS has been the victim of a cyber attack or even a probable spying case. After an in-depth analysis by experts as part of the modernization of its IT infrastructure, the Inland FPS realized that an attacker had entered the network since April 2019. The discreet nature of this introduction suggests an act of espionage. According to various sources, the attack was carried out from China. The case is followed by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. According to the CWB, no secret information could be stolen and the author also did not have access to the private data of our fellow citizens. Minister, what can you tell us about this cyber attack on your services? If secret information could not be stolen, what data were targeted and blocked? What about the authors? When they are identified, what consequences can they expect? And, in the case of a state-sponsored attack, I guess this case will become much more important. Depending on your answer, I will ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u29	Mr.President, Madam Minister, Tuesday, May 25, 2021, we were indeed learning of the discovery by the Interior FPS, in March 2021, of a "complex, sophisticated and targeted attack" that would have occurred in April 2019 and would have lasted two years. You have given some information in plenary but it seems to me that further developments would be useful. For example, Madam Minister, you have been able to point out that "systems that deal with classified information have not been affected, nor has the National Register" and that this cyberattack only concerned "internal documents". We know, Madam Minister, that an investigation is under way into this. Can we, however, obtain further information on the nature and quantity of information that has been made vulnerable by this attack? We have been informed that €6.5 million has been invested in order to restore the situation and completely modernise the IT infrastructure of the Inland FPS. Can we learn more about this? Finally, the federal police are also using Microsoft products, which you may have said they had played a role in the attack on the Home SPF. Is an investigation conducted on this side to ensure that services have not been affected in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. It is clear that the visit of a state actor to the network of the interior raises a lot of questions. As already mentioned in plenary, I can provide you with a little more details on the file on the basis of the information that is available. This cyber attack has had a big impact on our organization. After the attack had been observed, it was obvious that we had to defend ourselves. So we got rid of the malware. The direct access known to the attacker was closed and the emergency monitoring was introduced. By doing this, you can see everything that happens on the network that it can give signals of other contaminations or data exfiltration. In addition, a project team of FOD Home Affairs employees, the CCB and external experts were commissioned to work on a completely safe environment, without, of course, compromising the management of the FOD. Before going into the approach for the future, I would first like to look at the facts and data. On 25 February this year some alarm bells went off at the ICT Department of Home Affairs. A HAFNIUM/WebShell virus was detected on two ITZ exchange servers on 10 March. After further consultation on 12 March by CERT.be, it was discovered that there were traces on the network that suggested that there was more going on. A few days later, on March 16, CERT.be reported that they had found signs of forced entry on 17 servers and on the active directory. The next day, on 17 March, we were told that we should assume a serious break-in on the network. However, no evidence of data exfiltration had yet been found at that time. Two days later, on 19 March, it was indicated that 20 servers had been compromised and on 26 March it was established that certain data had also been filtered out from mailboxes of some cabinet members and employees of IBZ. Following an in-depth investigation, the CCB found that the first intrusions were noticeable at SharePoint from 30 April 2019. Various tools were dropped on the servers, such as compression tools and network scanners. So the hackers have been getting deeper and deeper into the network from that moment on. On 18 August 2020, traces of failed data exports were found on their mail servers and it was also found that cryptomodules were installed that made detection difficult. On 20 November last year, hackers were active on the servers of the Foreign Office, but also on other systems of the FPS Home Office. A total of 26 systems can be linked to illegal use by the attackers. Three active directory databases have also been compromised. However, I would like to stress once again that the public data of the national register, the identity cards, the elections and the Passenger Name Record system were not broken. Since August 2020, traces of access to 32 apparently selected mailboxes have been found. The hackers seized a lot of data from it. On the basis of the available information, it can be said that they came from e-mail servers and not from specific databases. This difference is still fundamental, because the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office has in the meantime confirmed that there has been no access to personal data or classified data. Such information is not on the network and is otherwise secure. Notwithstanding the fact that the media have announced that the police are affected by this attack, because it would depend on the IT services of the interior, I must inform you that, on the contrary, the IT of the police is managed independently of the interior. Therefore, it does not use the same system. Thus, since the beginning of the year, the individual and functional mailboxes of the integrated font have migrated to the Microsoft cloud, which was not affected by this attack. No problems have been identified. Local police areas still having a system of their own in parallel with the official were immediately notified, so that they would take appropriate action if they used a locally managed e-mail service within them. Finally, I would like to inform you that the Crisis Centre, the Data Protection Authority, the Federal Police, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, the State Security Service, the CGRS and the SPF Foreign Affairs have all been informed, in accordance with the guidelines set out in the "National Emergency Plan". The judicial investigation into the cyberattack is under way. A case was opened by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. The investigation is conducted by a Brussels investigating judge, after the filing of a civil action complaint by the Internal FPS. Meanwhile, a plan has also been worked out to ward off the attack. As mentioned above, all urgent measures were taken in a first phase and in a second phase the risk of further intrusion has been temporarily significantly reduced. The compromised parts and passwords were replaced and data were transferred to a safer environment. In a third phase, the network will be rebuilt and secured by the implementation of Proximus Security as a Service. The different phases consist of several sub-actions, on which the project team reports twice a week. It is a comprehensive package of technically complex interventions. Colleagues, if we focus on the possible authors of these facts, we see that the latter is able to carry out an attack meticulously and methodically, and that he has also used ingenious techniques. In this case, it is not a spectacular action carried out quickly, but quasi-surgical operations in which it nests very gradually and almost invisiblely in a network. I have asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs to start the process of assigning this malicious cyber activity, and the National Security Council recently approved a scenario for this purpose. With regard to this award procedure, it is true that if Belgium is a victim of malicious cyber activity, a diplomatic award procedure may be initiated by one of the members of the National Security Council if three conditions are met. Firstly, the involvement of a so-called vitally important organization, which is clearly the case here, for the Internal FPS. Secondly, it must be at least a national incident or even a crisis, which is the case here, given that the federal phase has been declared. Finally, the CWB also indicated that, given the complexity of the use of advanced technology and the persistence of cyberattack, the involvement of a government entity is suspected, which is the third condition for initiating an award procedure. On the basis of this information, I have asked, as Minister of the Interior, through the Federal Coordination Committee, within the framework of the federal phase, to initiate the award procedure. With regard to your other questions, about timing and steps, the chances of success of the procedure and its consequences, I would refer you to my Foreign Minister. Colleagues, as a result of budgetary control, EUR 6,168 million will be made available at the end of June 2021 to deal with the complex cyber attack, of which EUR 5,6 million on IT operating appropriations and EUR 500,000 on IT investment appropriations. For the urgent commitment files that have since been completed, the regular appropriations of the FPS were used. They will be compensated by the appropriations obtained at the end of June. The practical use of these resources is in many areas, for which I would like to give you an overview in writing on request. We are therefore investing more than EUR 6 million in security measures, thereby further protecting our country's sovereignty online. Cyber espionage is on an increasing scale. The government must be able to be more resilient. This calls for a sustained effort, for which we are taking very important steps today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u31	I will not make a reply, Mr. President. It was very clear and I received a lot of information. I thank the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u32	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the opportunity to speak. Madam Minister, you have given a very comprehensive answer and I think this was also necessary when looking at the impact. You said that there were no sensitive data from citizens, but we do not really have 100% certainty in that regard. For example, the director of the CCB said that if there were sensitive information in other copies that might have been stolen, that sensitive information could also be stolen. It's very important that the federal prosecutor makes it an absolute top priority to find out who's behind this hacking. For my grandparents, a trip to the coast was a trip to the end of the world, which was quite an undertaking. Today, however, the world is a village. With a few clicks one is on the other side of the world via the Internet. That is fantastic, but at the same time we must be aware that today about 30 countries in the world are able to use the Internet completely wrongly. They are almost deploying an army to effectively go on the warpath on the Internet. For me, what one was looking for effectively remains a bit of a question of one million. I hear people say they weren't looking for citizens' data. However, the question is whether we can fully rely on it. For me today, it is still unclear which data were looked at by those hackers. One may also wonder what interesting information these hackers have been looking for, if there was nothing interesting to pick up, because they have broken into our systems for quite some time, with the risk of getting caught. However, the risk of getting caught was too small. Well, it's become clear. If, after two years, one finds that there is a problem, then something is not right. It is a very good thing, as you said yesterday in the context of the budget debate, that EUR 6.2 million is being invested. It's really important that cybercrime be placed on the agenda. I can only hope that we can avoid much worse in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u33	Mr. Chair, in turn, I would like to thank the Minister for her specific response to the impact on the organization of the Internal FPS. It has drawn up a precise chronology of the facts found, with words that I think are reassuring. On the other hand, the police are independently managed in relation to the interior, and therefore are not directly affected by this cyberattack. Minister, congratulations for your proactive reactions: first, complete and detailed information to the authorities concerned, then a reconstructed network, with complex technical steps to counter possible future attacks. Finally, this $6 million investment will strengthen security measures. I think you took the problem in time, with a lot of vigour. I hope that the process will follow its path.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u34	Madam Minister, at the police council in the Midi zone on 17 May, the award of a public contract was approved for the acquisition of 10 semi-automatic collective weapons in 300 calibre and accessories for an estimated amount of €66 115.50. It is known that the federal police had already decided in 2019 to equip themselves with at least 1,500 300 FN SCAR calibre rifles. The Westkust zone then planned to do the same by acquiring 10 units. The FN SCAR is an assault rifle originally designed to equip military forces such as the US Army Special Operations Command. In the 300 caliber, it would be acquired here in its heaviest version. It is a weapon of war with a range of several hundred metres, whose ammunition is capable of crossing obstacles and continuing its course by remaining deadly. It is recalled that, in its civilian version, the 300 calibre is a popular ammunition for hunting big game. It is therefore surprising to see such weapons in the hands of the local police, especially in an urban environment where the risk of accidents is high. Minister, what is the justification for the acquisition of such weapons by federal and local police? Have field and expert consultations been conducted prior to these acquisitions? Can we know the result? What services will they have to make use of these collective weapons? Have the staff concerned received specialised training in the use of such equipment? What is the nature and frequency of their training?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u35	Dear colleague, the FN SCAR is a 5.56 x 45. The Federal Police acquired these arms in the 7.62 x 35 calibre, which is neither a military calibre nor a calibre for hunting ammunition. These weapons were acquired through a public procurement by the Westkust police zone in collaboration with the Federal Police. Then, the GPI 62 was modified in 2017 to allow the use of a heavier calibre for collective weapons. The armament used by the federal police needed to be modernized to deal with the new crime that is using increasingly heavy weapons. At the conclusion of the public procurement, the federal police, the local police, the trainers of the federal police, the operational members of each branch, as well as the unions were present and contributed. Any operational member who has been trained in the new collective weapon will be able to use it. All Federal Police Directorates will be provided. In addition, 90 police zones have already placed an order with FN Herstal to obtain it. As this long weapon is considered a collective weapon, operational members will be trained and trained - as is currently the case under the IPF 48. Training will begin as soon as the health context permits. The decision to buy heavier weapons, especially for the local police, was made following the terrorist attacks of 2016. Unfortunately, the risk of unexpected confrontation with heavily armed terrorists cannot be ruled out. For this reason, the police must have sufficient firepower to protect society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u36	Minister, I'm not sure I understood you correctly when you talked about calibers. You say you bought 7.62 instead of 5.56. It seems to me that the former are of larger calibres, but perhaps it is a technical incomprehension on my part. Having said that, we do not dispute the need for police officers to be equipped, in particular to prepare for potential terrorist attacks. However, we are talking about the local police, whose first mission is prevention and community service. Therefore, would this investment not be more appropriate in the recruitment of police officers? Moreover, this is the main demand of the agents, because this period of co-viding has particularly exhausted them. Wasn't there any other priority than the militarization of the local police? I would like to understand the need for specialized units that fight big banditry. That's not exactly the case with the local police. I also learned from the press that the weapons had been purchased, but without the ammunition, because the company that won the €75 million market could not get a loan from its bank that no longer invests in weapons. So not only do we have heavy weapons that are unsuitable for the local situation, but we do not even have the ammunition to use it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u37	Mr. President, Madam Minister, you recently announced that you want to restructure the police somewhat so that they can adequately respond to the developments and challenges that are increasingly facing them, including problems related to digitalization and social networks. To this end, you have launched SEGPol to identify the major challenges facing our police officers. To do this, you gave yourself two years before drawing conclusions and attacking the police of the future. Minister, what will this structure have to bring together? What can you tell us about this? In order to combat new forms of crime, including online crime, our legislation will also need to be adapted. Will the FPS Justice be involved in this renewal process? What financial means do you intend to reserve for SEGPol and the resulting restructuring?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u38	Mr President, Madam Minister, since my colleague has already prepared the state of affairs, I will come directly to my questions. Minister, what is the schedule for future meetings of the General Assembly? When do you hope that this process will lead to concrete measures regarding the new structure of our police? Do you intend to hear from the various trade union actors in the context of the meetings that are planned? What about Unia or the College of Attorneys General? How will the work be organised in the coming months? Will all important, though key, topics be addressed? I am thinking in particular of the recruitment, training of our officers, the local police, the violence committed by police officers but also of the violence against the police or the endowments in the police areas. I hope that you will be able to provide me with additional answers than those already mentioned at the event on 25 May. I thank you, in any case, for putting it in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u39	Mr President, Madam Minister, on May 25, you launched what you call "the general states of the police". According to the invitation launched especially to the mayors, the ambition of these general states, with poorly defined status, is "to identify the challenges of the police and to formulate concrete political recommendations. The ultimate goal is to achieve a more modern and dynamic police force based on a renewed vision and approach." This means little that this event does not lack ambition and that it was not really expected. If it can be understood that a reflection is carried out around the police, its function, its social role and even its organization, it would be expected that such a project would be carried out in a much broader framework than the one which seems to have been reserved for it. Minister, how have these general statements been coordinated within the government? Who are the pilots? What are the structures associated with it and on what basis? Are formal consultation bodies (Federal Police Council, Council of Mayors, CPPL) and other stakeholders (human rights associations, trade union organisations) formally involved in the steering process? In view of the ambition to formulate concrete policy recommendations, what is the precise mandate given to these bodies? What is the timetable for the work of this structure? How does it relate to projects under the government agreement, such as the revision of funding standards? Considering that a new National Security Plan (NSP) is to enter into force on 1 January 2022, how do the work here relate to the implementation of this new NSP? In addition, since this NSP is to be integrated with the full security framework note, has your colleague in charge of Justice been involved in the organization and management of the work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Police Generals are a comprehensive and unifying project aimed at bringing together all the relevant activities of the main partners and stakeholders, including the Ministry of Justice. The ultimate goal is to achieve a more attractive and agile police force based on a renewed vision and approach. Key partners and stakeholders will join forces to create the police of the future. I therefore await the conclusions of SEGPol before deciding on this future policy, its structure and any necessary legislative adjustments. These general states were born of a common will to think about the police of the future. I took this initiative in consultation with a number of key partners, namely the ASBL Centre for Police and Security, the ASBL Circle of Police Leadership and the ASBL Centre for Police Studies, the Integrated Police Coordination Committee and my administration. It is the administration that is responsible for the organization and coordination of the general statements, under the control of my cabinet. The current list of key partners is not engraved in marble. Other parties can of course join us later and become key partners by carrying out some of the SEGPol's substantive activities. Identifying the challenges facing the police is not just a task for the police themselves. I am trying to establish fruitful cooperation with the authorities, academia, Parliament and citizens. I know that the wider the support of the General States, the more concretely and quickly the initiatives under development can be converted into new policies. The General Statements will be implemented gradually. After the launch event that took place on May 25, an intermediate event is planned for late 2021 or early 2022. The final event will take place in late 2022 or early 2023. Between these events, various round tables, seminars, workshops and workshops will be organized by key partners. These intermediate activities of the states general will be organised in a bottom-up manner: the identification of the themes will depend on the various key partners and stakeholders. My administration will coordinate if necessary. The concrete results of the intermediate activities will be presented at the follow-up event of the actual general statements. These various findings and recommendations can serve as a basis for a new policy. The deadlines for initiatives under the government agreement, such as the revision of funding standards and the reform of the recruitment process, will in any case be maintained. However, with the work of the General States, we hope to stimulate the development of these initiatives. The importance of certain themes has already been stressed in the various speeches and interventions at the launch event. These themes, ranging from technology and innovation to violence against and by the security professions, will also be addressed in the new framework note. The interpretation of the new National Security Plan is reflected in the new Framework Note. In order to link the work of the general statements to the drafting of the new framework note, my services are in constant contact with the services of my colleague in charge of Justice. I also reiterate my call on Parliament to contribute to the activities of SEGPol. The recommendations resulting from the hearings planned by the Committee on Status, Discipline and Training will in any case be taken into account by the SEGPol.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u41	Madam Minister, thank you. It was very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u42	Minister, thank you for all the answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u43	Thank you for the clarification. We will, of course, remain vigilant as a result of the process and its conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u44	Mr President, Madam Minister, the main American pipeline operator, Colonial Pipeline, was paralyzed by a cyber attack on the weekend of May 8. In fact, a victim of a computer attack that involved ransomware or ransomware, a code that exploits security flaws to encrypt computer systems and demand a ransom to unlock them, it took Colonial Pipeline and the US authorities a week to reactivate the fuel supply network, despite a situation that remained complicated when the network resumed. The cyber attack and the closure of the pipeline created panic among motorists, causing queues in gas stations and shortages in several cities. There has also been an increase in fuel prices, while the normal supply of service stations is likely to take several weeks a priori. In any event, the attack in question has revived the controversy over the lack of protection of companies essential to the American nation against which computer hacking has also multiplied. Madam Minister, this large-scale cyber attack in the United States, as well as the recent cyber attack on Belgian public institutions, including our Parliament, show how vulnerable our infrastructure is. Minister, what is the state of security of strategic energy infrastructure in Belgium? Is our country's energy sector secure enough to deal with a cyber attack? What lesson does the National Crisis Centre, a Belgian contact point for EPCIP, learn from the cyberattack against Colonial Pipeline in the USA?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u45	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, critical infrastructure and essential service providers can be identified in the electricity, gas and oil subsectors of the energy sector. These designations are made by the sectoral authorities and, for a current state of affairs in the energy sector, we refer to the sectoral authorities, i.e. the minister responsible for energy. The Critical Infrastructure Safety and Protection Act provides that the operator of each critical infrastructure shall develop a safety plan for the operator to prevent, limit and neutralize the risk of disruption of the operation or destruction of the critical infrastructure. In drafting this plan, the operator may also use a strategic threat analysis conducted by the OCAM. In addition, the operator is required to organize exercises. An inspection service is provided by sub-sector within the relevant sectoral authorities responsible for monitoring the compliance of operators of sub-sectors, the provisions of the law and its implementing orders. In addition, the National Crisis Centre (NCCN) can take police protection measures for critical infrastructure in response to potential ad hoc threats. Within the framework of the law establishing a framework for the security of networks and information systems of general interest for public safety, the provider of essential services must develop a protection policy on which the provision of the essential service(s) concerned depends. The essential service provider carries out internal and external audits, network and information systems on which the essential services it provides depend. The essential service provider shall immediately report any incidents that have a significant impact on the information network systems on which the essential service(s) it provides depend. On 20 May this year, the NCCN adopted eStrategy 2.0, a new plan setting out the guidelines for an open, free and secure cyberspace. One of the six strategic objectives of the plan is to protect vital interest organizations from all cyber threats. The CWB will coordinate the implementation of this e-strategy 2.0 and the NCCN will, as part of this e-strategy, carry out its role in risk analysis specifically for cyber-risk and, together with the CWB, coordinate and organize emergency planning, crisis management and crisis communication within the framework of the cyber emergency plan. The NCCN confirms that a multitude of risks can affect the continuity of vital social service and stresses the importance of strengthening national resilience in the vital sectors of our country. In this context, the NCCN is closely involved in negotiations with the EU directive on the resilience of critical entities, which will eventually replace the legislative framework for critical infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u46	I thank the minister for her clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u47	Minister, following the findings of failures in the exchange of information between different bodies of the state and between local, regional and federal services, and despite the numerous alerts of the last twenty years regarding religious extremism, it was only in 2014 and 2015 that ministerial directives were issued to ensure better local vigilance against these risks and threats, including radicalisation. The legal framework then had to evolve further and it was in September 2018 that the obligation to implement local monitoring and exchange cells called Local Integral Security Cells (CSIL) came into force. At the time of their creation, municipalities were already operating in this cooperative strategy, but many others had not installed this type of local coordination, which was only recommended by circular. Indeed, an evolution had to be made for the actual implementation of these CSILs, which cover the entire national territory. However, it would appear that legal taxation is not yet respected. Minister, how many CSILs are there today? What measures have been taken by your services to ensure their effectiveness and functioning? Do you consider it necessary to support local authorities in any way (logistics, guidance, community counselling) in this context? Beyond the Radix Team, how do these mobile teams work? What is the assessment? Do you consider that there is a need to change the missions and framework of these CSILs in our country, particularly in parallel with the future objectives of your strategic note on extremism and terrorism?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u48	Mr Pivin, on 26 May 2020, Belgium had 344 local integral security cells in 480 communes among the 581 Belgian communes. Fifty municipalities do not have a CSIL to date and we do not have information for the other 51. Moreover, these figures are the result of a request to all municipalities in 2020 for which 530 of them provided us with an answer. It should also be noted that some declared CESILs are dormant as they stand. Finally, some municipalities have not declared the presence of a CSIL on their territory, which may also distort the figures presented. The figures are to be taken with some caution. My services offer several services to ensure the functioning and effectiveness of CSILs. I will mention support consultations on the development, implementation and implementation of CSILs in the territory of a locality. Also, follow-up consultations of the CSILs, the development of a CSIL forum for coordinators and information officers with the aim of promoting the sharing of good practice and exchanges between the CSILs. Meetings with the municipal level to raise awareness of the importance of setting up a CSIL, but also to give it an understanding of the phenomenon or the nature of the threat. The establishment of training courses is currently in the development phase following the crisis of the covid, which unfortunately postponed the organisation of these courses. Moreover, as you know, the CSIL law is a federal law, but it has an impact on the functioning of services at other levels of power. Therefore, a cooperation agreement between the federal and the federated entities is necessary and discussions on the content of this cooperation agreement are still under way. There is also, of course, a need to continue to support the local level. The Strategic Note on Extremism and Terrorism is an update to the current R Plan. The purpose of this update is twofold: to update concepts, structures, partners, the tool, as well as the method, and to be approved by all levels of government, which had not been the case under the current R Plan. I do not think that there is a need to change the missions and managers of the CSIL, but we need to make them better known, to make the actors aware of the importance of planning this platform for consultation and to clarify the framework. There is a need to split the objectives. On the one hand, there is the transfer of information from the persons included in the data bank common to the mayor as responsible for security in his territory and, on the other hand, the transfer of this information card within the framework of the CSIL where socio-preventive monitoring is necessary and/or complementary to the monitoring organised by the intelligence or security services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u49	Minister, I share your last thought about the fact that we do not yet have to change our missions at this stage. I believe that the problem is still, upstream, to raise awareness of the need to have CSILs everywhere. In this respect, I am, no doubt like you, doubly surprised by the figures you have been able to collect. On the one hand, I find that there is still a lot of blur in the collation of information, whereas it must be quite simple to know whether or not there are any in the territory of a given municipality. I see that this is not the case, since you say that there are 50 communes where there are no communes, and there are 50 other communes for which we do not have information. This, however, makes a total of just under 20% of the Belgian municipalities where there is no CSIL. I say 'double surprised', because, on the other hand, we know that it is a law, and therefore there is an obligation. It is no longer, as in the past, a recommendation, but an obligation. In my opinion, there is still some awareness work to be done. I take note of your willingness to support them so that they can put them in place or, in any case, that local agents are convinced of the usefulness of this implementation. I think it's a particularly effective outreach tool.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u50	Madam Minister, the Committee on the Interior has drawn up, on your initiative, a list of topics to be dealt with specifically in the context of its work. It was passed on to you. In this regard, the MR Group has proposed several topics, concerns and urgent assessments for our police services, including the reform of the negotiated management of public space. I was able to read recently that you have set up a working group to define a new police approach to demonstrations and various forms of protest. Could you please tell me who this working group is? What consultation is established within the framework of this work with the various authorities of the country, at the local, regional, provincial and federal levels? What specific tasks and objectives are assigned to this group in terms of the avenues for reshaping the police approach? What is the working group's schedule? Have you requested interim analyses? Will external police experts be solicited? Is there any exchange of experience with foreign countries? When can you communicate to us the proposals and recommendations that will be made by this group?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u51	Mr Pivin, indeed, a New way of protesting steering committee was set up in March this year. For this implementation, it was decided to resume the Task Force on the Negotiated Management of Public Space (GNEP) set up for the drafting of the future national security plan. The latter includes a program dedicated to the police management of public space, and more specifically a New way of protesting project. This choice ensures the coherence of the initiatives taken in this area within the integrated police force. The Committee is composed of the following members: the coordinating director (DirCo) of Brussels, the Directorate of Administrative Police Operations (DAO), the Directorate of Public Security (DAS), the DirCo of Liège, the Brussels-Capital Police Area - Ixelles (Polbru), the Antwerp Police Area, the Charleroi Police Area, the Liège Police Area, the National Academy and an adviser to the Directorate-General of the Administrative Police (DGA). Its overall objective is to determine how the negotiated public space management model can be applied to new forms of protest and to ensure its implementation. At the operational level, this is reflected in the identification of the components of the GNEP that need to be the subject of evolutions and developments in order to preserve a negotiated management of public space in the face of new forms of protest. In this regard, nine main themes were identified, namely, information gathering, increased mobilizable capacity within 24 hours, valorisation of risk analysis, new technologies and good practices, improvement of training, communication strategy, means, tactics and, finally, unity of policy and unity of command. The nine thematic pilots are identified and have been mandated by the Steering Committee. For the sake of balance, some of the pilotage is carried out by the federal police and another by the local police. Pilots are now responsible for setting up a working group with the candidate members and ensuring that different balances are respected. At this stage, the issue of the use of external experts has not yet been addressed, although it is not excluded in the context of the development of certain themes. Finally, it is also planned to exchange good practices with neighbouring countries concerned with the New Way of protesting problem. I will also discuss this issue personally with my colleagues from the neighbouring countries - the Netherlands, Germany, France and Luxembourg - with a view to a possible mini-summit on the subject. As far as the outlook is concerned, it is not possible today to provide a precise timetable for the production of recommendations. It is in the context of the development of the theme for which he is responsible that the pilot will be able to distinguish all aspects of his theme and to attach to each of them an estimate of the time required for his examination and the production of the recommendations. It should be borne in mind that this is a large-scale project which will therefore be a long-term project. But some aspects are likely to materialize within a shorter or shorter period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u52	Madam Minister, thank you. I note that there is not yet a timetable, so I will come back regularly to ask you about the progress of this group's work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u53	Madam Minister, we know that - as we have seen recently in the news - our country's special units have been called on as never before in recent years. Paradoxically enough, we are unable to provide them with modern training infrastructure, which implies the introduction of temporary solutions, as you were able to explain in your policy statement. The question of equipment and equipment is obviously important, but it is not essential. Numbering and training are priorities. Could you tell me, then, what is the current trend, as a percentage, in the number of special units since 2016? What is usually the duration of a selection and training of a future member of the special units? What investments were made between 2016 and 2020 in and for these special units? What is the target you have set for the next three years in terms of staffing and investment (in addition to training areas) for these units? What health and housing facilities currently allow these specialized police officers to be accommodated between missions? Do you think these facilities and infrastructure are suitable? What new measures do you plan to put in place for units based on regular evaluations to improve the working conditions of these units?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u54	Mr Pivin, I invite you to introduce in writing all your questions by which you ask for figures. Thus, since 2018, the DSU has had a theoretical deficit of 11%. The duration of selection depends on the number of candidates and the framework for which selection criteria are determined. Thus, the selection of our future principal inspectors and inspectors is a long process consisting of different stages according to the occupation requested. It consists of 10 days of actual tests spread over a period of five months. A period of nine months elapses between the publication of jobs and the start of training. The selection of our officers is faster and takes a few weeks. The duration of training varies according to the different DSU occupations. The training of our future operational members for the observation, arrest and intervention occupations lasts an average of one year. That of our future technical members extends on average over a period of six months. The organizational table includes the staff of the special units of the Federal Judicial Police. It was increased during the attacks of 2016. This has increased from 547 to 638 employees through the interdepartmental provision. The DSU, as well as the entire judicial pillar, is faced with the difficulty of recruiting highly specialized profiles. At the end of 2020, the CEO gave priority to the recruitment of specialized positions. It has launched a recent advertising campaign that is expected to attract some 40 new staff. Following the attacks, additional IDP-Terro funds were allocated to the DSU and the DSU was able to purchase the necessary equipment in order to continue to work effectively in the fight against terrorism and serious and organised crime and to be able to carry out its legal tasks properly. The investment priorities are: security equipment; individual and collective specialized weapons; ammunition, vehicles; ICT applications; audio monitoring and location equipment; infrastructure and equipment for interception of telecommunications. It is important for the DSU to keep its resources up-to-date so that all missions can be carried out in a safe and secure manner and so as not to lag behind criminal circles. The DSU benefits from a few rooms located in the Geruzet barracks as well as on the sites of Antwerp, Charleroi and Ghent. The DSU also rents rooms in the Lieutenant General Baron de Witte barracks in Haelen. All available chambers meet only part of the needs of the DSU and other directorates of the judicial pillar. That's why the CEO is studying the possibility of renting rooms outdoors. Various infrastructure projects have been launched for many years with the aim of improving the overall infrastructure of the federal police and therefore also of the DSU. For example, projects for new buildings exist for three sites occupied by the DSU as well as a renovation project for the premises located in Brussels. However, the federal police are dependent on the Régie des Bâtiments to carry out the work. The problem of shooting stands is a problem encountered by all the Federal Police Directorates and therefore also by the DSU.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u55	Madam Minister, thank you. I don't see what written question I can still ask you because you have answered quite completely to everything I have asked you here. I think it's high time because it makes you feel like a puzzle. It's really high time to make it happen, if only in terms of accommodation rather than rentals of what you call rooms. The area covers a little more than a room, but I think it is high time to put into practice something worthy of hosting these special forces.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u56	Minister, the communication tools have for several years forced the police to change their monitoring and control of unauthorized and even protested acts in public spaces. For a long time now, police officers have been faced with erratic calls and rallies that do not comply with the rules in force and make negotiation processes more complex by ignoring specific permits to occupy public space. In addition, the last few months of the pandemic have led to very delicate repeated situations for our police officers. Situations of illegal gatherings are increasing and significantly undermine the credit of health measures taken in the context of the pandemic. Minister, what local police and federal police services are working together to monitor potential public space events without authorization? What staff is responsible for monitoring calls to these types of events on social and Internet networks in general and what monitoring is in place within this framework at the level of local and federal police services? What procedure is in place to ensure exchanges between event initiators and the police? What measures at the level of risk analysis do you intend to take at these levels to strengthen the day before and the police control of calls to unauthorised gatherings? What specific measures are planned by the police forces, and in their training, to ensure compliance on the ground with the rules governing the organisation of demonstrations and to control initiatives to occupy public places and spaces? Your firm had proposed that you send me the complete answers in writing. I had subscribed to it while wishing to ask you the questions and hoping that you could communicate your complete answers to me as soon as possible. If you already have some information to provide, I would appreciate it..
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u57	Mr Pivin, I would already like to give you some answers. Within the integrated police, monitoring of the Internet and social media is carried out at different levels. It is used both to detect events and reactively in response to the information obtained. We make no distinction between the two approaches. Within the Federal Police, social media monitoring is carried out, both within the Directorate of Administrative Police Operations and within the various information units in the boroughs. Some areas have also invested in means and skills for monitoring and monitoring information on social networks, but these investments vary depending on the capacity of the area and the specific problems the areas are facing. Finally, there is a oriented monitoring which is carried out by the judicial units of the Federal Police and by the State Security, according to their respective competences and points of interest. The information obtained shall be shared among all the police services concerned and made available to the police area in which the event will take place. Any outdoor event is subject to an application for prior authorisation. This request enables the administrative authority to contact the organiser and to draw up the necessary agreements through dialogue and consultation. The authorisation to organise the event, whether or not subject to conditions, falls within the competence of the administrative authority. In practical terms, we can distinguish the following cases. First, the requested event is authorized, subject to conditions. The event is requested and not authorized but tolerated or prohibited, or the event is not requested, let alone authorized or tolerated. You will not be surprised to see that it is above all this last category that sometimes presents difficulties. It also led to the development of the concept of New way of protesting. New forms of protest, new methods of organizing public meetings have emerged in recent years. The main challenge is that we are not dealing with organized groups or movements, but more often with vague structures that, thanks to social networks, new technologies and greater mobility across borders, are able to mobilize and organize quickly. Without prejudice to the principle of negotiated management, this requires the search for alternative forms of dialogue and new strategies. Since consultation is no longer planned at the initiative of an organizer who makes himself known in advance, it may be assumed that it is the responsibility of the authorities or the police to find relevant interlocutors. In order to respond to these relatively new international phenomena, the Integrated Police has established this working group. I will provide you with more information on this matter earlier. The concept of Negotiated Public Space Management (GNEP) is integrated into basic training at all levels. It is also taught through continuous and functional training within the integrated police force. These courses consist of theoretical and practical modules. In this context, a training ground has already been purchased from Westakkers. This land with its street structure will eventually offer the possibility to implement some practical modules in an optimal way. We will organize a first integrated exercise in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u58	Madam Minister, thank you for the clarification you have given.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u59	Sectoral negotiations began several weeks ago. That is a good thing, and I think that the police representatives were unanimous in this regard as a result of the implementation of these negotiations by you. The question of the baraemic scale and adjustments is central to succeeding one of your urgent challenges: recruitment. The purpose of the exchanges is therefore to examine and compare each category of police sector personnel in order to adjust all salary scales, which has not been done for many years. The coincidence of the calendar is that you were arrested by the common union front on this matter this morning, since you received the visit of Saint-Nicolas and on this occasion the police officers were able to remind you that they can no longer afford the status quo. I would like to know how these negotiations are going, beyond the festive atmosphere that prevailed at this morning's meeting. I believe that a baraemic scale comparison is required on the basis of the upgrading within civil protection concerning the average framework. If my information is correct, you have already submitted no less than five different versions of proposals on this subject, but this seems insufficient since the negotiations have been suspended for 15 days. I understand that there have been suspensions before. However, the Unions of Cities and Municipalities are calling for moderation in this area. In other words, minister, it doesn't really look like much progress. Therefore, on what basis do the discussions on the baraemic scales take place? Precisely, is a comparison of scales for certain police functions to be revalued decided? If so, which one? What functions are targeted precisely and primarily – and in what order – by readjustments? How long are these negotiations to last and what will be the status of the agreement that will be reached? What will be the agenda for the next meeting of the Negotiating Committee and will you send a new proposal to the union front?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u60	Mr Vandenput is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u61	In March, I had already asked about the state of play in the negotiations with the police unions. It was clear at the time that the conversations hadn't started so well. In the meantime, the talks have been postponed again for a number of weeks and a joint letter from the various trade unions has been received. How are the talks and negotiations going in concrete terms at the moment? According to the latest communications from the trade unions, they are awaiting a new initiative from the government to launch the talks. They have therefore sent you a joint letter. What is your response to their pertinent question of getting real negotiators at the table? Are there any plans for new conversations? Which timeline do you put first? The trade unions also complain in their explanatory notes about the unprofessional way of negotiating and are actually asking for more direct contact with you. How do you see the relationship between your cabinet and the trade unions in the absence of any progress? What do you do to improve contact and restore confidence? Can you confirm that the new Director-General of the Administrative Technical Secretariat, whose installation you had announced at the time before 1 April, has indeed been in service since yesterday? The police also call attention to a better remuneration. This also fits within the framework of the police as an attractive employer. Could you explain the proposals more clearly? What exactly is on the table? You are prepared to put a considerable amount of money on the table, but are you also looking at the cities and municipalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pivin, the negotiations for a possible sectoral agreement officially started on 12 February. At an introductory meeting, I agreed on guiding principles with the unions. Together, we want to conclude the first sectoral agreement since the reform of the police, in other words, for twenty years, providing for structural measures for all staff. Particular attention will be paid to staff in the operational framework who have no longer benefited from salary increases since the reform. As a public authority, we also consider it important that an additional effort be made for the first processing scales of each operational personnel framework. These include the framework of security officers and assistants, the basic framework, the middle management and the officer cadre. We also want to make an additional effort for specialized functions. In addition to the monetary aspect, also known as the quantitative aspect, we also want to conclude agreements on measures to increase the operationality of the police and to improve working conditions and the well-being of staff, in order to make the police function more attractive. You will understand that I reserve all the other details for the negotiations. Mr Pivin, it is difficult to predict how long these will last. This will also depend on the budget expectations of the unions and the opportunities of the government. I also depend on the willingness and possibilities of local authorities to contribute to the financing of a possible wage increase. Representatives of local authorities were involved in the negotiations from day one. These include associations of cities and municipalities, the Council of Mayors and the Standing Commission of the Local Police. The possible agreement will be the subject of a protocol and will have the status of sectoral agreement. As regards the role of the TSS, the TSS DG chairs the normal negotiating committee. The previous DG SAT decided to leave office at the beginning of the negotiations, which is why the negotiating committee has, in the meantime, been chaired by my firm in a very professional manner. The new DG SAT took office on 1 June, as you said, Mrs Ingels. He will resume the chairmanship of the negotiating committee as soon as possible. Mrs Ingels, I note that you have read the pamphlets of the Common Trade Union Front correctly. I think I even recognized a few literal passages in your question. The soup is never drunk as hot as it is served in union pamphlets, which is a good thing. We had a constructive meeting this morning. Social dialogue is still ongoing. I do not need to remind you that not all financial dreams are feasible, but I am sure that together we will come a long way, taking into account the circumstances and the difficult budgetary context, both of the federal, regional and local authorities. I can also confirm that I am close to those talks, that my Deputy Head of Cabinet has been in charge of the negotiations and will, of course, continue to take them up and hand them over to the SAT, as has just been said. An exact timeline for the negotiations is difficult to give. The last sectoral agreement of 2018 was concluded only three years after Minister Jambon took office. Then it was just about a wage adjustment. Certain parts of it are still to be carried out, such as the meal cheques, which we will be carrying out in 2022. We are now eight months away in this government period and four months after the formal start of negotiations. You will understand that we need to take the necessary time to convince all partners, especially local authorities, of the importance of a sectoral agreement. The trade unions have also indicated that they consider this to be beneficial. It is also important for local authorities to make the police even more attractive, so that we can recruit 1,600 policemen every year. This will enable us to fill the gaps in the local police zones and make the position attractive to many candidate inspectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u63	Madam Minister, thank you. These negotiations are in fact a double opportunity. It is an opportunity to meet the challenge that you yourself have set to improve police recruitment. I said it from the start. But it is also a great opportunity to show support for people who are doing a job that is known to be extremely difficult, especially during this pandemic. Madam Minister, it is therefore an appointment not to be missed. And I want to end with a wink saying that we have to believe in St.Nicolas, but that you must also finalize this agreement before December 6.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u64	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. The negotiations do indeed take a great deal of time, and I understand that you cannot make any commitments in terms of timing. You are also dependent on what will happen to the local authorities and to what extent they want to get over the bridge. However, I must also read the pamphlets of the trade union organizations. As a member of an opposition party, I can only question you and read trade union leaflets. In these pamphlets I read their question that the chairman of the standing committee and the commissioner-general of the federal police will join us. In addition, I will frown the eyebrows. Director SAT's been installed since yesterday. I am therefore confident that everything will go back to the way it should. I look forward to the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u65	Mr President, Minister, I have just slipped out of the discussion of your colleague and fellow party member on the major fiscal reform to discuss another major problem in this country, in particular the illegal migration on our Flemish coast. Last week another 80 illegals were found in Oostduinkerke near Koksijde, who wanted to cross the canal in an unsuitable boat. Again, Madam Secretary. The mayor of Koksijde, Marc Vanden Bussche, urgently asks for additional means to counter the illegal crossing by boats. The mayor said the following in the press, I quote: "It keeps mopping with the tap open. It is now the second time in a week that we are confronted with this and this on the eve of the summer season. I therefore immediately consulted the Governor of West Flanders." Madam Minister, I have a number of questions about this. First of all, in the meantime, have you consulted with the mayor? We should hope so. What was discussed in concrete terms? Secondly, will additional funds be made available to support local authorities on the Flemish Coast? The governor of West Flanders is also calling the alarm bell. The governor is identifying the understaff and the lack of support from the federal police. Furthermore, the governor denounces the thinning of the Central Intervention Corps of West Flanders. Third, have you been in contact with the governor? What was discussed in concrete terms? Fourthly, will additional forces in support of local police be released? Fifthly, how will the structural problem of federal police support be addressed? Sixthly, how will the under-employment in the Central Intervention Corps of West Flanders be tackled? Seventh, will provision be made for the need for permanent control of our coasts, as is the case in France? The governor also wants better cooperation and communication with France and the United Kingdom to address the problem of illegal immigrants. Eighth, how do you intend to improve communication with these neighbouring countries? Ninth, will you insist on participating in the Joint Information Center of France and Great Britain?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u66	Mr President, Mr Vermeersch, as chairman of the Western Flemish Working Party on Transmigration, the governor coordinates all contacts with local authorities. Together with my associates, I have regular contact with the governor and his associates on this subject. Transits of immigrants with improvised boats to the United Kingdom are mainly a French phenomenon. The crossing from our coast is twice as long and subject to opposite currents. In Belgium we are mainly confronted with drifted boats and movements in the interior towards the French coast. Since 2014, there were nine known facts with a confirmed departure from the Belgian coast. They were almost always organized crossings with seaworthy boats. In addition to last week's fact, there is one similar fact known with an improvised vessel. Due to the intense cooperation of the French police forces, there is a risk that the problem will shift to the Belgian coast. The federal police and the local police forces involved therefore work intensively and integratedly together on the problem. For example, the ball is played briefly when information pops up about the possible departures of transmigrants from our coast. It is essential and fundamental to ensure a proper exchange of information between police forces and with the foreign partners France and the UK, and there is ongoing work on optimising the exchange of information. On the basis of accurate imaging, targeted checks can be carried out on our west coast to places where a vessel can reach the beach. Sensitive sectors at sea for such sailings are monitored with the different coastguard partners. Every day our police services also receive the necessary feedback from their French colleagues regarding attempts to cross the Channel from the French coastline. The administrative director-coordinator of the West Flanders district of the federal police encourages and coordinates local and federal actions against the problems of transmigration and organised smuggling based on accurate imagery. For example, last weekend additional controls were organised specifically against that phenomenon. In recent years, the Federal Police Intervention Corps in West Flanders has been considerably strengthened specifically to support the approach to transmigration. In addition, all open relations of the CIK within the budgetary margin are declared vacant for each mobility cycle to reach 100 % of staff. The governor is particularly concerned about the period from now until the end of the summer. In addition to the above mentioned initiatives, the Federal Police each year, during the summer period, sends several policemen to the coastal police zones to strengthen during the busy season. The policemen can be deployed as they please, including the phenomenon of transmigration and the so-called small boats. Additional aid may always be requested in accordance with existing aid mechanisms. For example, the federal police regularly provide extra patrols on horseback in the border area and in the dunes. It is therefore not clear to me what you mean by a structural problem of support. As I have already pointed out, the West Flanders Coordination and Support Directorate has a stimulating, facilitating and, above all, coordinating role. For facilitating, it can be both about human resources, but also about material support, such as a helicopter or drones. The aid usually requested relates to the so-called unplanned aid, where migrants are found to be ad hoc during the regular operation of local police forces. Such immediate demand for support should always be checked against other priority tasks, whether national or non-national. Beyond Thursday, 27 May 2021, the necessary settlements were therefore made to send the CIK and the Federal Reserve from Brussels on-site, to support the local police. All necessary preparations shall be made in good time with regard to the support provided for in a planned targeted action and the assistance requested may usually be granted. I can also confirm that relations with the United Kingdom and France are excellent in this respect. There are ongoing contacts with both countries at both policy and operational level. In order to steer the various forms of operational cooperation even better, it was recently decided to initiate a structural consultation between the French Prefect, responsible for dealing with human trafficking, the coordinator for combating illegal crossings of the British Home Office and the Federal Police Department. A first cooperation will take place in the coming weeks. The British have indeed suggested that Belgium would participate more closely in CCIC's activities in Calais. However, France is currently carrying out an evaluation of the operation of that centre with a view to a possible adjustment of its objectives. The added value of a permanent presence of the federal police in that centre will therefore only be assessed once the evaluation has been completed. In the meantime, since March 2021, the federal police have been participating in an initiative that has arisen within the context, namely l'unité de renseignement opérationnel, which aims to quickly exchange information on illegal crossing with France and the United Kingdom, but also with Europol and the Netherlands, with a view to initiating and monitoring judicial investigations. There are other channels for exchanging information within the UK, such as Interpol, SIENA, the international information point in the border region and through the liaison officers of the Belgian and British police, who are seconded to the embassies of London and Brussels respectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u67	Madam Secretary, I am appalled at your reply. You deny that there is a structural problem. Not only do I say that, but not just the Flemish interest, as the governor says. I quote the governor: "The local police could not count on the help of the federal police in the action in Oostduinkerke on Thursday because the troops had to be deployed for the search in Limburg. There are currently no football matches or events. That shows a structural problem. If something happens somewhere else now, no help is available." Furthermore, the governor denounces the expansion of the Central Intervention Corps and he says: "Under Minister De Crem we were still able to count on an occupation of 100 %. Now that is halved, while they can give us support in this file." You are not only denying the structural problem, I hear a general problem in your answer, but not concrete measures to tackle the problem on the ground. We must not underestimate that problem. As in the Mediterranean, there are different routes to the United Kingdom and these routes can also change. I can only advise you to have regular contact with this particular problem, not only with the governor, but certainly also with the Chief Constable of the West Coast and spokesperson for the local police, Mr Paelinck, whom you undoubtedly know well, and with the local mayors of the Flemish coast. Last year I spoke with Chief Constable Paelinck and Mayor Vanden Bussche in response to one of our actions against the asylum centres. It is effective mopping with the tap open. I'll come to my decision. A strong measure must be taken to reduce illegality, but also crime on our coasts: preventive with strict border controls, active detection of illegal immigrants and permanent surveillance of the Flemish coast, but also curative with a tough approach to smugglers and a firm return policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u68	Madam Minister, on 20 April 2021 the Belgian ban on non-essential travel abroad was lifted. Travelling is still strongly not recommended. The lifting of the ban was a matter for the European Union or the Schengen area, but it has been reported that several citizens believe that non-essential travel outside Europe is possible again. The channels of communication of the government do not clearly refute that. For example, on the website www.diplomatie.belgium.be it is indicated that non-essential travel from Belgium abroad is not recommended, but it is not reported that non-essential travel outside Europe is prohibited. The same applies to specific travel advice by country. It is not recommended to travel, but information is given,if it is available, about the conditions for entry into a particular country. That's what confuses people. For example, it also indicates when a country does not allow Belgians, but there is no explicit travel ban. Nor does the website www.infocoronavirus.be mention a travel ban on non-essential travel. The website will specify the procedure to be followed when returning to Belgium from abroad. This can also be about a country outside the European Union or the Schengen area. I come to my questions. Does Belgium still maintain a ban on non-essential travel outside Europe? If so, why is there no clear communication for the citizen? To what extent does Belgium follow the advice given by the European Union on the gradual abolition of travel restrictions at the external borders for residents of certain third countries? We are talking specifically about Australia, Israel, New Zealand, Rwanda, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand and China. In the meantime, are there any negotiations at European level with third non-European countries on the mutual recognition of corona certificates and, therefore, the mutual consent to enter the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u69	Indeed, Belgium continues to maintain the prohibition of non-essential travel from third countries to the EU, which is coordinated at European level through Council Recommendation 2020/912 of 30 June 2020. That Recommendation does not apply to travel from the EU to third countries. For this reason, travel from Belgium to third countries is currently only strongly advised. Non-essential travel from third countries to Belgium shall be prohibited for persons who do not have the nationality of a country of the European Union or of the Schengen area and who have their main residence in a third country not listed in Annex 1 to the Recommendation of 30 June. We are therefore applying that list of third countries, except for China, for which explicit reciprocity requirements were decided at the EU level, which are not fulfilled. Moreover, it has been prohibited since 28 April of this year for persons who have not been resident in the territory of Brazil, South Africa or India at any time in the last 14 days to move directly or indirectly to the Belgian territory, in so far as they do not have the Belgian nationality or their main place of residence in Belgium, with the exception of the essential authorised journeys, as defined in Article 21 (2) of the MB. That information, which I must contradict, is indeed correctly and clearly communicated on the website of info-coronavirus.be. Following adoption, the Regulation on EU digital co-vid certificates will form the legal basis for the mutual recognition of third-country vaccination certificates by means of an implementing act of the European Commission. The agreements are still being made. The details for Belgium are currently being discussed and will need to be transposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u70	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I understand from your answer that there is therefore no real ban on non-essential travel outside the EU. You say that the information is displayed correctly. I can only say that there is confusion among many citizens. The way in which people deal with it in the Netherlands seems much more efficient and clearer to me. They have a map of the world on which they have given a colour to all the countries of the world. With green one can travel. In yellow, there are risks. In orange it is recommended to travel to that country only if it is really necessary. It clarifies that holidays are not necessary. We must not travel to red countries. It is then about general safety risks. This seems to me to be a much clearer system, which is clear to the citizens. After all, there is a great deal of confusion now. For example, there may be discussions between the tour operator and the traveller if you book a holiday outside Europe. I would therefore recommend that this be clarified more quickly than is the case today. Finally, you also discussed the ongoing negotiations at European level to conclude agreements with third non-European countries. I hope that will be clear soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u71	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vandenput (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Vandenput on his excellent report. 55018337C by Mrs Bury was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u72	Mr. President, Madam Minister, on May 21, 2021, we learned that the Child Focus Foundation had put in place a training in prevention "First Aid in the Event of Disappearance" (PSCD) in collaboration with the Missing Persons Unit of the Federal Police. The Foundation's communiqué points out that, during this training, information on "how the police, justice and child focus react in case of disappearance, on the basis of a collaboration protocol unique to the world, developed following the Dutroux case" will be made available. Minister, can we get more information about the cooperation between the police and organizations working in the field of missing persons and, in particular, between the Missing Persons Unit of the Federal Police and Child Focus? Child Focus's annual report highlights a decrease in child runaways, abductions and disappearances between 2019 and 2020. Can we hear your views on these figures, given those observed by the Missing Persons cell? Did this trend continue in the first five months of 2021? Can we also be informed about the composition of the Missing Persons cell and the procedures to which its members are attached? Finally, can we be informed of the procedures for cooperation with the services of our neighbours in the matter of disappearance?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u73	Mr President, Mr Senesael, the collaboration between Child Focus and the judicial and police authorities is explained in a cooperation protocol, annexed to the Minister of Justice's directive of February 2002 on the search for missing persons. The role and missions of each are detailed. Child Focus's purpose is to support families, provide a free 24-hour telephone number, and a platform for the dissemination of search notices for all disappearances of minors and adults under 24 years of age, when they are worrying. The Missing Persons Unit is responsible for supporting, coordinating and offering expertise in the area of disturbing disappearance and identification of corpses and amnesia. Its figures confirm a downward trend, but no conclusion can be drawn from it, given the travel restrictions imposed in the context of the covid-19 crisis in 2020. We do not yet have consolidated figures for the first five months of this year. The Missing Persons Unit is competent only for cases of disturbing disappearances and will therefore have no figures for parental runaways and abductions when the minor is not in danger. The Missing Persons Cell of the Federal Police is composed of 18 persons, including 2 officers, 14 investigators and 2 administrative staff. Its area of competence as a specialized support service is divided between the elucidation of disturbing disappearances on the one hand and the identification of corpses on the other. All procedures to be implemented are contained in the Ministerial Directive on the Search for Missing Persons. The procedures for cooperation between the Missing Persons Unit and the police services of neighbouring countries do not differ from other judicial phenomena, especially since there is so far no similar police service with which the unit could establish a more structured partnership. In the event of the disappearance of a Belgian national abroad, a file will always be opened in the Missing Persons Unit of the Belgian Federal Police. Collaboration with our foreign colleagues will take place on a case-by-case basis, depending on the country and the circumstances of the disappearance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u74	Thank you, minister, for the completeness of your answers. You recall the collaboration protocol, with each person's roles and missions. Thank you also for the information on the composition of this Missing Persons cell, with these 18 people working to clarify these disappearances and identify the corpses. We can be satisfied with the good trends in cooperation procedures with neighbouring countries. Like you, we will be careful not to rejoice too quickly, because this confirmation of downward trend must be correlated with the crisis of the covid-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u75	For these questions, Mr Senesael is the only one present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u76	Mr President, quality is still present until the end of the work! Madam Minister, on Sunday, May 23, almost yesterday, an inspector of the 37-year-old Central Judicial Brigade ended his life with his weapon of service in his workplace. It would turn out that the reason for this act would be - I would stress here the use of the conditional - on the one hand, moral harassment in the workplace and, on the other hand, problems of a private nature. This death follows the suicide of another inspector in August 2020, one of whose causes could be harassment from his hierarchy. The spokesman for the Federal Police recently revealed an increase in the number of suicides in the Belgian police services: 5 in 2020 against 4 in 2019 for the federal police and, above all, 12 in 2020 against 5 in 2019 for the local police. Minister, can we have your feedback on the points raised, and in particular on the problems that may arise from the relationship between the members of the services and their hierarchy? Since the beginning of the covid-19 crisis, police have been under increased pressure and the psychosocial situation in our police services appears to be deteriorating. Modestly, as president of the police zone of the Val de l'Escaut, I can confirm this state of deterioration. It has happened to us that the Stress team of the police is particularly solicited at this time, which can have an impact on both the quantity and the quality of their services. Do we have a more detailed assessment of the psychosocial situation in the Belgian police? Can we get more information on the ability of the Stress Teams to respond appropriately to their requests? Can initiatives be considered to improve the psychosocial situation of the police? If so, can we learn more about this? In advance, Madam Minister, thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u77	Mr Senesael, psychosocial risks at work are defined as the likelihood that one or more employees will suffer physical or psychological harm, which may also be accompanied by physical harm, as a result of exposure to one or more components of the work and on which the employer has an impact and which objectively involves a hazard. These components include work organisation, working conditions, working conditions, work content and interpersonal relationships at work. All these components are interrelated and influence each other. Within the police, each staff member has the opportunity to contact the Psychosocial Prevention Advisor or the Stress Team. Global risk analyses, as well as analyses of specific work situations, are carried out continuously, not only to be able to map psychosocial risks, but also to take individual and collective measures to anticipate these risks at best. At the federal police, prevention cards are drawn up as a result of accidents or incidents that call upon them to try to learn from them and to avoid, to the extent possible, the recurrence of such events. Mr.Senesael, the Federal Police Stress Team noted an increase in psychosocial interventions during 2020, compared to 2019. Indeed, the number of interviews carried out increased from 3,917 in 2019 to 4,598 in 2020 (an increase of 17%). It is not possible to determine precisely the causes of this upsurge, but as with the general population, the police do not escape the phenomenon. As already mentioned, the Federal Police Stress Team consists of 11 psychologists and 8 social assistants trained in reception, accompaniment and psychotherapy for psychosocial phenomena. They are supported by two administrative assistants. I would add that this framework is systematically filled to be complete. In addition, there are Stress Teams in some police areas, provincial services, as well as outside prevention and protection services that also contribute to the support of staff with psychosocial problems. As a result of the psychosocial risk analysis conducted at the end of 2018, information sessions were held for line members in all federal police services. Workshops have been planned to improve psychosocial load in all units. But because of the pandemic in progress, they had to be postponed. Finally, I would like to add that, through the various annual action plans, different directorates of the Federal Police pay particular attention to the psychosocial burden of their staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u78	I thank the Minister for the quality of her responses. They will be a good reference for the police areas of our country. The figures cited speak for themselves and justify the primacy of the quality of the follow-up of psychosocial situations to be implemented. This requires a particular interest, as you said.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u79	On May 18, 2021, the Child Focus Foundation released its 2020 annual report. This shows that the crisis related to covid-19 was accompanied by a significant increase in the number of reports of sexual exploitation of minors online between 2019 and 2020, from 1,501 to 2,205 – an increase of almost 47%. The report also reveals that reported facts in the "online security" category – highlighting facts of problematic sexting, sextorsion, grooming, sexual intimidation, malicious messages and challenges, privacy violations and cyberharassment – increase by 54% between 2019 and 2020. In 2020, 411 alerts were recorded, compared to 267 in 2019. Can we have your feedback on the figures mentioned, especially with regard to those recorded by our police services? Can we be informed about cooperation in the management of sexual exploitation and online security of minors between our police services and foundations and organisations active in this field? The report points out that "identification of victims and perpetrators remains one of the greatest challenges, as recruitment and the approach of potential victims take place largely online and because in practice victims rarely file complaints because they do not consider themselves victims. This is reflected in the figures: the majority of reports are made by the emergency services (38%), the parents (22%) and the police (20%)". This refers to a problem already discussed with you: the fact that victims of harassment, abuse and, in this case, sexual exploitation do not systematically file complaints. What is your view on this? Can initiatives be considered and how? Does the Internet Investigation Section of the Central Directorate for Combating Serious and Organised Crime follow this type of phenomenon? If so, can we be informed of its activity in the fight against sexual exploitation and the violation of the online security of minors? Finally, can you inform us of contacts with our police services and those of our neighbours?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u80	Mr Senesael, the Child Abuse section of the Central Directorate General DGSOC of the Federal Police took over the Child Focus hotline during the first three months of containment in 2020 and found that an increase in this order of magnitude was possible. The frequent use of the computer by children during this period may have played a role. However, before I draw any definitive conclusions, I will wait until we can compare the figures for 2019 and 2020. This matter is governed by a memorandum of understanding signed by the Minister of Justice, the College of Attorneys General, Child Focus and the federal and local police. It defines the responsibilities and powers of all parties concerned. In addition, DGSOC has concluded a cooperation agreement with ECPAT. The section also cooperates with the Stop it now project and its recently founded Walloon counterpart. These projects are active in preventive work for people who feel sexually attracted to minors. Victim identification is one of the main tasks of the Child Abuse section of the OCSD. In this regard, there is very close cooperation with police forces around the world. The main communication channel is the Interpol-managed ICSE database, to which the section has direct access. In addition, in collaboration with the DGSOC's Internet Investigation section, Child abuse makes optimal use of the opportunities offered by social media. Any investigation begins with the objective of identifying the victim as quickly as possible and saving her from the abusive situation. This identification leads in most cases to that of the author. With regard to urgent reporting, the Internet Investigation or IRU section may be contacted outside of office hours by foreign services or by platforms. The section then identifies the victim(s) and advises the territorially competent services to ensure verification and take any action. Child abuse follows up and makes the necessary contacts with partner services. When the IRU section, during an internet patrol, discovers a child sexual exploitation content, it immediately communicates the content to the Child Abuse section. For specific issues, there is very close operational cooperation with our neighbouring countries. The central point of international structural cooperation, however, is the European Impact project. In this area, Belgium cooperates with the Member States of the European Union, the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Norway and Iceland. International organisations such as Europol, Interpol, Cepol, Eurojust, the European Commission and the Council of Europe also participate in the project. On the basis of strategic objectives defined by Europe, the project members shall draw up an annual operational action plan. Partnerships also exist with the South-East Asian region, Latin American countries and the Balkan countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u81	Mr President, I would very much like to thank the Minister, who has answered all my questions in a comprehensive way, and to take advantage of the moment given to me, and also to thank her colleagues, who are providing her with valuable assistance in the many elements that are being sought from her person.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic500x.u82	Debates of the European Parliament 55018465C by Mrs Matz was postponed.
