ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u1	This item on the agenda was not completed last week. I also said at the time that additional questions could of course be asked. Madam Minister, I was not present at the time, but, if I understand correctly, a number of questions were asked on 26 January which have not yet been answered. (See Integrated Report CRIV 55 COM 346, p. 31-42) They are listed by the secretariat. How are we gonna do that? Are you going to give a global answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u2	Mr President, new questions have been added on the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u3	Then it's best if we deal with that together? Members with new questions will still have the opportunity to ask their questions. This is the thirteenth item on the agenda (Question No. Question No 55013454 (C) to the seventeenth point 55013533C). Mr Verduyckt, I can see that you are fresh and cheerful. You'll have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u4	Mr President, fresh and quiet, yes, and still in quarantine. So it's gonna be a while before we meet again in the flesh. I had indeed tabled a question on the CRM. Meanwhile, that question is completely dated, but fortunately the theme is not. After all, the study is now complete. The year 2021 will probably be the year of the CRM, if Europe does not pour soot into its food. That will prove to be the case in the coming months. Our party is and remains a cool lover of the CRM principle. It's an expensive principle. We believe that something else would have been possible and desirable if other investments had been chosen earlier. The haulogy study, which is now ready, speaks of an amount of 238 to 253 million euros per year. That could be called a fluke. Indeed, in previous studies, much higher amounts were paid. I remember the CREG study, which involved 600 to 900 million. I assume that the CREG will also have to look at this study, but it is a windfall, although we will still have to invest more than 3 billion in order to get energy security in order. That's a lot of money. So I hope at least that a production market will be built around renewable energy, and that at the same time we will be able to tackle the concentration of power that characterises our Belgian production market at the end of the journey. The result must be a successful production market. By this I mean firstly that the new production units must be adaptable and rebuilt to innovative techniques so that we can reduce CO2 emissions. I hope the consultant comes next week. The study is based on a result with little difference between the lower and upper limit: 238 to 253 million. When I look at all the factors that will be involved in the auction later, I think that the amount mentioned seems a little too punctual and precise. My first question to the Minister is why, especially if we keep in mind the other numbers that once circulated? Maybe the Minister can answer that. Otherwise, I'll ask the question at least next week. Secondly, we have always been told that the CRM will have an effect on the invoice. The CRM ensures energy security; energy security in turn, in principle, provides greater supply and lower prices for consumers. Has that effect been considered in this study, too? Is the effect calculable? After all, it is an interesting fact, about which we would like to know more. The logical last question is: what are the next steps? What can we expect from the CRM in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u5	Madam Minister, on Friday 29 January you announced the results of the haulogy calculations. This would amount to a lower cost of the CRM mechanism, yet lower than previously calculated. There would be an important difference in the lower estimated need for new capacity. That is somewhat different from the capacity already indicated by Elijah. What figures will you then proceed with? Do you continue with the estimated volume figures of Elia, of 3.9 gigawatt new capacity? Or will you use those new numbers? A choice will have to be made. If the study is the best possible estimate of the costs, it seems appropriate that the starting points of that study may also become the starting points of the auction. In the other case, it is a scenario that is calculated to indicate a cost that no longer corresponds to what you would actually do or to the auction parameters. The CRM Act addresses Elia and the CREG with specific tasks in this area, of course your consultant is not involved. To what extent does the calculation done now affect the whole process and interpretation of the data provided by Elia and the CREG? For example, the study considers that Elia proposes to raise the intermediate price limit to 28 euros. Will you use haulogy's capacity assessment to organise the capacity auction, or is it not? On what other points does the calculation of haulogy differ from that of Elia? If I have been able to read the study thoroughly, questions will come up. This is a first attempt to get a closer look at it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u6	Madam Minister, much has already been said by colleagues. I was surprised, however, by the confirmation of your cabinet, Friday in the eve, from EUR 238 million to EUR 253 million per year. The resolution included the amount of EUR 345 million per year for PwC. In the memo assessing the impact of the introduction of a CRM on final consumers by the CREG of May 2020, the CREG used figures based on two models, with a cost reduction mechanism and no cost reduction mechanism. The cost without cost reduction mechanism was estimated at 614 million euros to 940 million euros, and with a cost reduction mechanism, e.g. with a VoLL of 5,300 euros per megawatt hour, 107 million euros. So there are a lot of different amounts circulating. Madam Secretary, can you, in prelude to next week, lift a tip of the veil in connection with the study of haulogy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u7	Minister, I wanted to put my question in the same vein as before. Like everyone else, I read Belga news reports announcing a study by Mr Vercruyssen, a member of the company or think tank haulogy. It should be noted that, while working at PwC, Mr. Vercruyssen had already produced a CRM study. At first, I was surprised to see that the same person had completely changed his conclusions in a few months. My curiosity was therefore sharpened. For this reason, I would have wanted to know the reason for this shift. From what parameters and at whose request did Mr. Vercruyssen work? The substance of the case is that the government must inquire and ask experts for this purpose, particularly in matters that concern you. As a result, most of the time, it orders studies by public procurement that help it forge an accurate, new and progressive idea of a complex situation such as that presented by CRM. Minister, my questions are very simple. First of all, I would have liked you to be able to communicate the study to Parliament, so that we can read it and deepen all aspects of it – beyond the answers you will give today. Then, who ordered this study? Is it you or the government, and on what basis? If you didn't order it, did it come to you? Do you not see this as a major problem of credibility a priori? Indeed, the same author leads to diametrically opposed results from one legislature to another and from one employer to another. Therefore, do you not think that the author's hearings should be organised, so that Parliament can compare the two studies and assess the reasons for this sudden change? In due course, when the CREG has given its opinion on this study, it should also be heard about its report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u8	Madam Minister, in relation to the cost of CRM, last week you said that it was in the final stage. That was effective, because we read in the press that it was roughly halved, with amounts, according to press articles, between EUR 238 and 253 million per year. In 15 years, that would be EUR 3.6 to 3.8 billion. I find it very striking that the range of results is very limited and that the ceilings are very close together. This would indicate that the cost of the capacity remuneration mechanism can be estimated fairly well. I have the following questions. How come that range is so limited? How sure are you that the effective cost will be between EUR 238 and 253 million per year? What are the uncertainties in the study of haulogy? What are the basic principles that remain unclear? I am thinking, for example, of the volume of auction. When can we expect the comments of the CREG on the new study? Finally, I understand that this has already been promised, but I had also asked whether the CREG study and comments could be made public and whether we could have access to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u9	The latter will be taken care of.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u10	Mr President, since I had to start right away, I skipped my original question. I would like the Minister to answer that question as well. Madam Minister, what is your response to the writing of sector federations, which are very concerned about the cost of CRM? More specifically, it concerned the Essenscia letter, which was addressed to the various members of the government. Have you responded to that? If so, how?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u11	Can you get out of it, Madam Secretary? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u12	It is true, Mr President, that I can answer the last questions that have been asked, but I will answer them first for the dynamics of the debate. Don't worry, I have answers to all the questions, including those that were asked last week. So I will start with questions about the study of haulogy, which deal with three aspects. First of all, how did the study come about? How is it communicated? Who did that? How was she ordered? Secondly, a number of substantive questions were asked. Thirdly, there were questions about how we proceed. As I said at the beginning of the sitting, we sent the study to Parliament last Friday. We will do this more carefully next time and we will always send the documents to the committee secretariat. This is of course a study which was commissioned on the basis of the resolution which was voted on here in Parliament. In response to Mrs Marghem's very specific question, I can say that a public procurement was launched under the previous government in mid-September by the administration – at the time, it was not my administration – in response to the request for the resolution to update the CRM cost estimates. This procurement was published online. I don't think it was published in the Belgian Monitor. It was online, a public service contract. The deadline for receipt of tenders was 20 October 2020. Two offers were submitted. haulogy won the market following a careful evaluation of its service offer. If you wish, you can still consult this on the internet. The criteria are not only the price, but also the experience of the tenderer with such a contract. As I said, the haulogy consultant will be invited to participate in the February 9, 2021 hearing on the follow-up to the development of CRM in the presence of the CRM Follow-up Committee. Parliamentarians will therefore have every opportunity to listen to a presentation of the study but also to ask the questions they consider useful. It is therefore an independent task carried out by the consultant. I will answer your questions in a moment, but next week there will be an exchange of views with the consultant where you can ask very specific questions. We also wrote in the resolution that the CREG would deliver its comments on the study to Parliament. At the request of the CREG, the CREG was also involved and the route was routed. While the consultant was working, an exchange with the consultant took place in the Follow-up Committee. This does not prevent the CREG from commenting. It was the CREG's question to be able to cooperate constructively, but this does not, of course, prejudice the comments the CREG will make on the study. I hope they will be able to make their comments in the general debate next week. There were also questions from Mr Warmoes and Mr Verduyckt about the range. When the first cost assessment of the CRM was made in 2018, there was actually very little known. The first cost assessment has also been made, Mrs Marghem will remember this well, based on a design that was not yet known. So there was still a lot open at that time. Afterwards, the design was worked out. The resolution adopted here also made a number of choices, for example with regard to pay-as-bid and pay-as-cleared. Also in the 2018 study, carried out by PwC, the cost estimate was only one of the aspects. Here it is dedicated about the cost estimate based on much more known information. It's with that information that the consultant worked. Of course, not all information is known yet. I will come back to that later when it comes to the volume. There the consultant also took a number of assumptions, of course on behalf of the consultant himself. That explains the assessment currently being made, an assessment based on the information available today. The consultant has taken all the information that is known at the moment. You will recall that this was previously an enormous frustration. We then had to work with cost estimates dating back to 2018. It was an explicit question from this Parliament to get an update on it. How the consultant has continued to work with assumptions made about volume and other matters is of course the consultant's own responsibility. This can be the subject of an exchange of views with the consultant. Mr Wollants, as far as volume is concerned, one has nothing to do with the other. The consultant's assessment of the volume shall be borne by the consultant. This has nothing to do with the decision to be taken in March or April. The consultant's calculation does not affect the volume work. It is a cost estimate, a scale of the costs of the CRM, carried out by an independent party that has of course based itself on the ongoing process and the data available today. That means he can't rely on an independent volume calculation, but he derived that from Elijah's report. This includes the calculations which the CREG must then allow to draw up the demand curve, which in turn leads to advice from Elia and from my administration and to determination of the volume. It is important that the cost estimate does not make any preliminaries on the proposal of demand curve by the CREG, on the opinions to be issued, or on the decision on the volume. The cost estimate is a cost estimate, not a new step in the calculation of the demand curve or the assessment of the volume. For the purpose of determining the volume, I will only base myself on the documents provided for in the law that we will discuss here in Parliament after the recess. The study is also accompanied by a comprehensive methodological note containing all sources and a comprehensive description of the methodology and hypothesis used. The cost calculation shall cover the entire duration of the CRM. So this is not quite the same as the calculations that Elijah made for the first auction. Two different studies with two different methodologies, but haulogy has based itself to the maximum on Elia's report to ensure coherence. I come to Mr Ravyts' questions. An important factor explaining the difference in the cost estimate is the pay-as-bid methodology, as mentioned earlier, instead of the pay-as-cleared methodology, which was still used in the 2018 PwC study. Furthermore, the volume is also lower than was assumed in 2018, as mentioned by colleague Wollants. I repeat that haulogy assessed this on the basis of Elia's report of November 2020, with the latest data available. Also important: the price limits laid down in the resolution were applied. This limits in certain cases the compensation that will be granted. I come to Mrs Marghem's questions. I have already answered all his questions except the fourth. In drafting this new study, the expert informed himself of the latest developments in design and developed a precise methodology allowing him to estimate the cost by respecting the demands of the resolution as best as possible. Moreover, as I have already said, it is pay-as-bid, pay-as-cleared, and also with regard to volume. I would add that the consultant is invited to Parliament next week. Now I come to Mr Warmoes' questions. Without repeating myself, I would like to say that the effective cost will only be known at the time of the auction itself. We cannot make a preliminaries for that. Sensitivity has been taken into account as much as possible, but it remains an assessment over several years, including assumptions. There's no other way. On the volume, I repeat that the consultant has also worked on the basis of general economic models, assumptions regarding the energy mix and generic business cases, and thus not on individual or specific business cases that the market participants will use within the framework of the capacity compensation mechanism. The cost assessment is without prejudice to or without prejudice to the parties' effective bidding behaviour, which is moreover regulated by design elements such as the intermediate and the global price limit. Mr Warmoes, you also mentioned the comments made by the CREG. We have also delivered everything in parallel to the CREG. The CREG already had the study before because it had also participated in the start-up process. However, as I said, one does not prejudice the other. Mr Verduyckt, indeed, the parliamentary resolution, as you rightly said, was not only about the cost calculation but also about its impact on the invoice. It's still a huge amount of money. It is an investment in our security of supply, but the size of that amount should make us think about how we pay it. Another important aspect of the resolution is that the CRM effectively fulfils what we all hope, namely that we will enter a more competitive market, where different market players will carry out different projects. The questions raised by the sector federations arise not only from large companies, but also from the sector federations of other entrepreneurs, such as SMEs, and also from citizens, since one in five cannot pay its bill today. The answer to these concerns is also central to the government agreement, namely to reduce the federal share of electricity bills and to introduce an energy standard for businesses and also for families. At the end of the previous committee meeting, I told Mr Wollants that I was the first partner to submit proposals to the Chamber, not by the end of the legislative term, but as soon as possible. I will also try to give sufficient insight into that timing, so that it is clear to everyone when we will come up with it. I would like to add the following to this today. This week we will begin discussions with the various stakeholders. Mr Verduyckt, very specifically in response to your questions, we will of course listen to everyone. That's very important. After all, the federal share is paid by everyone and it is not a homogeneous group. Citizens are not a homogeneous group and businesses are not. We have already been in contact with various organisations in the field of energy poverty and we will continue to do so. Very specific in this respect, we will also consult with Test Purchase, the Family Association, the trade unions and the King Baudouin Foundation. In particular, this week we have also looked internally at the possibility of involving the CREG Advisory Council. I will make a proposal on this. Indeed, the Advisory Council includes all relevant stakeholders. This will allow the various relevant stakeholders to reflect together on a fair and equitable sharing of costs. I will come back to the questions that were asked last week. I am not sure if I answered the questions about the European Commission last week. That does not appear to be the case. As regards the in-depth investigation, the European Commission's ongoing state aid investigation, you know that we formulated our first replies on 22 October, that a sector inquiry was subsequently conducted by the European Commission and that the Belgian State responded by the end of 2020. The public investigation of interested parties took place from 16 October to 17 November. The European Commission is now putting all the elements together and regular consultations are taking place between the Belgian State and the European Commission. The results of an in-depth investigation are well known: positive decision, negative decision or conditional decision. We are still working as constructively as possible with the authorities concerned to reach a favourable outcome as soon as possible. Last week there was a question about the participation in the CRM of a nuclear power plant, the Borssele nuclear power plant. The Electricity Regulation requires foreign capacities to be able to participate. The concrete rules that ACER had to lay down, in order to make this possible, have only been available since 22 December 2020, more than a month ago. The law provides that agreements between Elia and transmission system operators in the countries concerned must be taken into account. Now that ACER rules are known, they still need to be translated into practical and bilateral agreements between network operators. This is also provided for in the preliminary draft Royal Decree, which is available online. Of course, Elia's calculations and proposals take into account the contribution that foreign capacities can make. To date, however, they cannot participate in the Belgian mechanism. That will be the case at the latest from the first T-1 auction for the delivery year, i.e. 2024. With regard to the possible participation of the Borssele nuclear power plant in the Netherlands, I can confirm that, although it is of course known information, the mechanism must be technologically neutral. This follows from the European State aid rules. No technology types can therefore be excluded a priori. Of course, any capacity participating in the CRM must comply with the availability obligations under the CRM. It is therefore up to each of them to decide whether or not they want and can provide the service and whether or not they can do so under competitive conditions. In doing so, operators must, of course, take into account a specific situation, such as safety requirements or fuel cycles. It is therefore not for me to comment on specific projects in this area. To date, however, this participation is not possible. However, now that the rules are known, they are being continued. I replied to the question about in-depth investigation. Ms. Marghem asked about the type of power plants under CRM. The bill sets out the restrictions already contained in section 22 of the Electricity Regulations, thus limiting CO2 emissions. These limits will apply to the whole of the European Union. In addition, the existing technical and environmental standards of course remain applicable. Since CRM must be technologically neutral and in order to maximize competition in auctions – and thus minimize the cost of CRM – other restrictions on technical sustainability are not foreseen today. By offering opportunities to reduce storage demand and other innovative technologies and by providing sufficient flexible capacity, CRM fully supports the energy transition. The regulatory framework for the development of a hydrogen backbone is under review. It should take into account the presence of private hydrogen networks that supply a large part of existing customers, as well as the possibility of reusing parts of the Fluxys gas network and new infrastructure. In the further development of hydrogen infrastructure, the demand for hydrogen at a given location will obviously play an important role. Both Elia and Fluxys take into account the expected demand in developments and informal consultations between these two entities are already taking place on a voluntary basis to assess the importance of these developments. With regard to Mr Wollants's question on the Volll, I would like to refer in general to Article 2 of the Electricity Regulation, where in point 9 the Volll is defined as follows: "The value of the unsupplyed energy is an estimate in euro per megawatt hour of the maximum electricity price that customers are willing to pay to avoid unavailability." Unavailability of electricity can take different durations and forms, ranging from a full blackout to an announced partial interruption. According to the electricity regulation, the reliability standard, i.e. the LOLE, will be calculated using at least the value of the lost tax, i.e. the VOLL, and the cost of new access, CONE. The preliminary draft law, which was submitted to the Council of State at the end of December 2020 for the purpose of amending the Law of 22 April 2019, provides that my administration is to be designated as a competent authority to determine the VOLL in cooperation with the Federal Planning Bureau and the CREG. All interested parties are aware of this. Work has started with the three bodies. In the short term, we expect to be able to table the draft law in question in Parliament. With regard to timing, next Friday the overall draft will again pass through the Council of Ministers. I would also like to propose the timing that we will apply to the work on the federal share relating to the invoice and the energy standard. That is not strictly included in the law, but is connected with it. In this way we can continue to deal with both aspects together, i.e. the CRM and what to do with the cost of the CRM, how and by whom it is settled. We shall then submit it to Parliament. We then have the session with the Follow-up Committee and the consultants. That is the ideal run-up to the draft law, which will then be debated in Parliament afterwards. As part of the parliamentary work on the draft law, we will be able to discuss further the specific aspect of the VOLL. The following question relates to the conditions imposed by the Regions for the installation on their territory of gas-fired power plants. Contacts have taken place with my regional counterparts regarding CRM in particular. There was also an inter-federal IKW and a Consultation Committee on Friday. The question of the positive impact of competition with a multitude of projects was discussed. Then I come to Mr Warmoes' questions last week, first of all with regard to the derating factors. It is true that some derating factors relate to technologies that are no longer present in Belgium in the first year of life, but are still present abroad. For the sake of completeness, they were therefore included. First of all, I would like to point out that the derating factors are a result of the simulations that Elijah did with his model. I have faith in that model, and I assume that Elia did the simulations correctly. I can add that the derating factors for both nuclear and gas power stations are based on historical forced-outage rates, i.e. unexpected standstills. Therefore, the derating factor does not take into account any other standstills that are not considered strictly unexpected, such as work on the 10-year inspections, new safety standards or tests carried out. Thus, a rating factor of 96 % for nuclear power stations does not mean that these power stations are available 96 % of the year. Specifically for the derating factors for technologies with limited energy, Elia explained at a specific task force meeting: "These derating factors depend on the share of these technologies in the system, and this is relatively high in Belgium. The higher the share, the lower the derating factor. This can be explained by the fact that with a large share of these technologies in the energy mix, they can be expected to produce not only at times of scarcity but also at other times. Consequently, these technologies are not at 100 % of their capacity at a time of scarcity, which is taken into account in calculating their derating factor. Part of the energy contained in the battery is already used; the maximum hours of demand response activation are almost reached; the water level in the basins is not at the maximum..." The full explanation can be found on the website of Elia. With regard to the proposed derating factors, I note that the regulator will give its opinion and these factors will have to be identified. The derating factors are some of the elements in the overall design. You certainly have a point when you ask a question about that. After all, it is one of the still outstanding points in the design, which is still being worked on. That point will certainly be dealt with next week, as well as later on in the design and, if necessary, later on. Next, I will deal with the price limit and the cost of the CRM. In my letter to Elijah I indicated that I take into account several pertinent comments made by different market players. Compared to the other European countries where a similar CRM has already been introduced, which has already been assessed by the European Commission, the CREG proposal was very low. The x-factor has to cope with the uncertainty about the Net CONE, and I believe that a factor 1.1 offers too little margin for this. In addition to the process under way in accordance with the design of KB to arrive at a maximum price, our CRM resolution included that the price limit for multi-annual contracts may not exceed EUR 75 per kilowatt, unless it is demonstrated after consultation of the Chamber that a higher price limit is unavoidable in the context of security of supply. This security of supply is expressed in abundance in terms of the reliability standard, the LOLE, currently three hours, in line with other European countries. That provision will be followed and, if necessary, there will be a debate on the maximum price. My statement is therefore not a preliminaries to whether or not such a debate is necessary, as I cannot anticipate what will happen. In any case, I intend to control the costs of the CRM as much as possible, both through the limitations contained in the resolution and through the further development of the design. The costs of the CRM should ensure supply to citizens and businesses, which is essential. I have said several times, both in plenary and here, that this is also a political responsibility. It is therefore absolutely my intention to discuss this with Parliament. As regards the CNE parameter, the mechanism chosen is market-wide, which means that the volume necessary for security of supply, subject to adjustments, is contracted. It is a misconception that it is only about the difference between what is expected in the market and the necessary volume. Furthermore, CRM should be technology neutral and the intermediate price limit applies to all capacity holders eligible for a standard one-year contract, regardless of their technology. If we were to determine the IPC on the basis of the lowest missing money, all the capacities covered by the IPC with a higher missing money would not be able to make up for the missing money via the CRM. This would therefore mean that they would not be able to participate in practice and that we would have to contract additional capacity under the global price cap. The aim of the CRM must also be borne in mind, namely to find sufficient capacity for the volume needed to ensure our supply at the lowest possible cost. The auction mechanism then ensures that the lowest bids are selected, undoubtedly a mix of technologies. Elia has made a number of calculations, in accordance with the preliminary draft of KB, and has also proposed two possibilities for the IPC. I am now awaiting the opinion of the CREG on this matter. The CREG makes a proposal of demand curve and at the same time an opinion on auction parameters. I will not comment today on the final value. I will certainly consult Parliament, in accordance with the resolution, if I would opt for a value above the threshold of EUR 20 per kilowatt. I come to your question about the climate study, Mr Warmoes, and a grouped answer to a number of questions. First of all, I would like to point out that ACER's new methodology on adequacy studies, the ERAAs of European Resource Adequacy Assessments and subsequent NRAAs or the National Resource Adequacy Assessments, their national variant, was only adopted in October 2020. This methodology shows how the ERAAs, the European variant, will happen in the future. For a number of elements, this methodology does not provide for a single, unambiguous way, but different options. Further alignment and choices based on this methodology are therefore still needed. So that methodology is not a recipe with which one simply follows the steps and arrives at a dish. There are options and options. ENTSO-E, the European Network Managers' Association, submitted an implementation plan of that methodology to ACER. This shows that in the latest European adequacy study, the MAF, the Mid-term Adequacy Forecast, of November 2020, ENTSO-E made only limited changes compared to the 2019 MAF. The bulk of the new methodology will therefore only be implemented by ENTSO-E by the next study of November 2021, and some cases later, in 2023. In the existing adequacy studies, both ENTSO-E and Elia have always based themselves on a series of historical climate years. This is done on the basis of the European climate database, the Pan-European Climate Database. It is not true that climate change is not included at all, because of course all recent years are included. It is true that today's climate database does not contain an assessment for the future. For the next adequacy study, Adequacy and flexibility, which will be published in June 2021 in Belgium, Elia opted for option 1 of 3 from the European methodology in collaboration with the Federal Planning Bureau and the FPS Economy's Energy DG in the area of climate. This means that "future states will be created to take into account the impact of climate change on the adequacy of the electricity system." This is literally in the methodology. A public consultation was organised for the entire proposed methodology and the data to be used for this study. The results will be published by the end of February, followed by a debate in a task force with market participants for this study. This methodology for the climate years is based on the work of the French TSO RTE, in collaboration with the Météo-France Institute, and meets the requirements of the ERA methodology. This initiative demonstrates the intention of the TNB and the authorities to integrate proactively and as far as possible into the ERA methodology. For the first volume determination, the central scenario from the last MAF of 2019 was taken into account as it is most supportive of the central reference scenario from the future ERA. This scenario was updated on the basis of the most recent relevant information from the study of the Pentalateral Energy Forum of May 2020. A sensitivity to lower demand was introduced as a result of the COOVID-19 crisis. The sensitivity was decided by our colleague, Mrs Marghem. In accordance with the relevant draft KB, this process will be carried out every year. Each year, the central reference scenario will be selected from the most recent ERA, which will be updated on the basis of the most recent relevant information on which sensitivities can be applied. Different steps are needed prior to the effective auction. The reference scenario was chosen in the summer of 2020 with the sensitivities, lower demand and availability or unavailability of 1.7 gigawatts of the French nuclear park. The intermediate values were then selected. The reference scenario is therefore the responsibility of Mrs Marghem and the intermediate values under my responsibility. In November 2020, Elia produced a calibration report with calculations that will now allow the regulator to develop a proposal of demand curve and propose other parameters. The calibration report was also delivered to Parliament on the basis of the resolution. That's what I said last week. By 1 February, therefore, yesterday, the regulator will draw up a proposal of demand curve and then an opinion on Elijah's proposals for the other auction parameters will follow. Then, by 1 March, an opinion will be delivered by Elia and the AD Energy, after which the decision on the concrete auction parameters will have to be taken, so that market participants can start preparing for the auction. The route to be followed before the market players can start their preparations will therefore take at least six months. Therefore, these concrete steps could not wait until the new methodology was available, let alone implemented. Nor can we start the process from scratch, after the new study Adequacy and flexibility will become available, as we will not be able to complete the auction in time in October 2021 and therefore would not be able to guarantee security of supply by the winter of 2025. The Belgian government subscribes as much as possible to the application of the European methodologies and Elia is working hard to apply the European methodology in this respect by the next 2021 study. However, given the time frame and the necessary preparation of the auction, it is not possible to base the 2021 auction on this. As regards the iterative addition of 100 megawatt discs, this is necessary for the calculation of the parameters, but is not equal to the auctioned volume in the CRM. After all, the mechanism chosen is market-wide. This means that, subject to adjustments, the volume necessary for security of supply is contracted, not only the difference between what is expected in the market and this necessary volume. This would constitute discrimination between new, refurbished and existing capacities. The methodology for determining the demand curve is described in the KB establishing the calculation method of the necessary capacity volume and the parameters necessary for the organisation of the auctions under the capacity fee mechanism. The KB was published on the website of the FPS Economy and is also part of the notification file with the European Commission and therefore publicly available. I do not wish to comment on the final volume and the final demand curve, as I said earlier. I have to respect the process as it is. I will therefore base myself on the proposal of the CREG and the opinions of the administration and of Elijah. The way in which points A, B and C are to be calculated is described in the preliminary draft budget already mentioned. As regards point A, it is indeed provided that if the bids submitted are particularly expensive, a small derogation may be accepted to the LOLE criterion in order to reduce cost. The deviation is determined by the correction factor x which allows the maximum price to be determined and the maximum volume to be calculated at the maximum price. The next T-1 auction will then be able to absorb this and no such deviation from the criterion will be allowed in order to ensure compliance with the reliability standard in fine. The CREG proposal will of course be shared with you, if you will allow me to take note of it first, as it is addressed to me as well. At the same time, I can answer questions about it. There are still some sessions taking place and we may get into an acceleration, which will speed up the follow-up. I have already answered the last question in reply to the previous question. I have already dealt with the last questions that have been asked today at the beginning of my reply. I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u13	If you allow me, with regard to the recasting of the CRM project, you have redrafted the text and presented it to the Council of Ministers for the first time. I would have liked to know with which law firm and on the basis of which public procurement you had worked in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u14	Can I arrange the replicas? Some colleagues feel that not all of their questions have been answered. Unless you make a mistake, Madam Minister, is that the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u15	Mr President, I think I have forgotten two aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u16	The minister says she's forgotten a number of aspects. It was, of course, a very extensive round of questions. I suggest she complete this first. Those who wish to do so can then be given the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u17	Could you just point out to me the exact questions that were involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u18	Mr President, the questions were about Elijah's capacity contract and the rules of operation of the CRM.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u19	Mr President, please give me the number of the questions, because I do not find the answers directly here. The question you are referring to is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u20	Madam Minister, you said last week that you would only answer questions about the resolution-related aspects of the CRM. My question was not bound by the resolution. It concerned operating rules, contracts and the public investigations of the competent authorities. Maybe you didn't bring that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u21	They're looking for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u22	Madam Minister, you replied on the competence to establish the sole estimate of the VOLL, but unless I missed it, you did not indicate whether you would be transferring the CREG study work. That was one of three questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u23	I answered what I said, namely that the three entities are working together. That is the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u24	That's how I heard it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u25	So the answer is no?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u26	I don't want to avoid the question. I understand from the CRM team in my administration and in my cabinet as well as from the CREG that they are putting their input together to work together on a proposal. In that sense, it's not feel free next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u27	For the record, the replies should not be mixed with an aspect of the question that has been forgotten by a defect or administrative carelessness. First of all, I would like to conclude with the state of affairs. Have you given all the answers you wanted to give in this globalized debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u28	Mr President, I think Mr Ravyts is right, but that question was no longer on the agenda, which means that it is forgotten. I do have the answer, so I can either read it or hand it over in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u29	Madam Secretary, in order to facilitate the work, I agree that you hand it over in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u30	That is possible, because the answer is prepared.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u31	That does make it a little more transparent. Mr Ravyts will receive a written reply, which will be included. Can we move on to the lines?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u32	Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for the great transparency that you offer in the dossier. You also argue very clearly why certain choices are made. So we will certainly not be able to say that we did not know, perhaps we did not understand. However, that is not a disgrace in the file. I would certainly like to thank you for that. You have given us a great deal of information today which will enable us to continue work, including on the study of haulogy which we will be discussing in greater detail next week. So I will not dwell too much on the procedural aspect. For me, the results are very important, which we have also included in the resolution. It is, on the one hand, about the functioning of the market, where I hear clearly that you share my concern. It's about cost, on the other hand. What is clearly visible in the study is that the fact that we included the price caps in the resolution has an impact on the cost of CRM, which in itself is a very good thing. Secondly, I am naturally satisfied with your answer on the impact of the cost on the energy bill. It is the right of the sector federations to worry about the electricity bill. That is their absolute right, but certainly not their exclusive right. Let's make that very clear. We all have to be worried about it. We must be concerned about the high electricity bill, because we will have to make the switch and because it has an impact on our economy, but above all because there are many people in this country who have energy poverty and have a very difficult time paying their energy bill. Madam Minister, it is therefore very good that you indicate that you will also be working on Test Purchase, with the trade unions and with the King Baudouin Foundation. These are indeed the organisations that can give a voice to those who are not organised. These are often the people who need a low energy bill even more than some others. Above all, I do not want them to pay for the high cost of the CRM. That certainly can't be the intention. So it is very good that you are working on this. We will, of course, follow this important dossier very closely and certainly next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u33	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the various answers, although some aspects remain to be addressed. Firstly, on the work of the CREG on the single estimate of the VOLL. Of course, you can understand why we ask that we get the study work directly. Now it's in the big pot. What comes out of that is what we are seeing, but that is not at all the study that you have shut down. Secondly, regarding Borssele's possible participation, you say that it is not excluded, which is correct. There is indeed a possible participation, with a number of comments. However, I have to say that people tell me at least that the study of haulogy takes considerable account of the full maximization of the cross-border participation, which makes the Borssele power station possible. You are right when you say that they must be able to meet the conditions of, inter alia, security of supply. However, this is equally true for our existing domestic gas plants, some of which, in my opinion, have stopped unexpectedly at least four or five times in 2021. Of course that also plays in the whole story. Thirdly, as regards the study that has been produced, it was said that there is no link to the process, but it is an assessment based on what we have today. To the extent that this cost could be a true estimate, the principles are important. I have already talked about the lower volume and about maximizing cross-border participation, but what about, for example, the idea that there will only be auctioning for 10 years and not for 15 years? That's also an element. What about the fact that the price limits in the CRM resolution were indeed used there? Depending on what happens, you might come to Parliament to increase it or do something else with it. What about the assessments that are being made today? They do not always seem logical to me when it comes to the distribution of new capacity across the different technologies. We won't go into it now. There is little point in that. I think that next week we should deal with this as a matter of principle when we have read the study. The question will remain as to how things relate. Now the newspapers are always talking about EUR 238 million, but we know that in the first 10 years it will always exceed EUR 300 million. There are a number of things to be said about this. I think that the President may be able to order sandwiches, so that there is room for a good discussion. That's in everyone's best interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your transparency. Except in mid-October, when you gave a powerpoint presentation, this committee has not heard the follow-up committee since the beginning of June. We have had the work on the resolution, but after July everything has stopped as far as Parliament is concerned. Hence the battery that Mr Warmoes launched at you and which had to do with the discussions that took place up to Elijah's calibration report in mid-November. I cannot speak for my colleagues, but I hope that next week we will not discuss the numerous discussions between Elijah and the CREG which were held in silence last summer. That doesn't make much sense. You have already effectively put a number of points on the i today. I thought the investigation had taken account of the resolution. Anyway, I had you say it. I have just referred to the CREG because, of course, it has come to the people, namely the cost of EUR 600 to 900 million. It is now up to you to correct that completely and, among other things, for price limits, to put the plumes on the proverbial hat. However, we still have to wait a little bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u35	I thank the minister for her detailed answers on certain points and for taking back the history of everything that is happening in this matter and that was launched under the previous legislature not only by the previous government, but also at the level of Parliament in agreement and in collaboration with the outgoing government. Today, we are in a very tight timing but we were already, so it continues. I see things are moving very well. I hope, in any case, that the negotiations with the committee will be positive because that remains a matter of concern. I have, moreover, remained hungry for your answers to the question that I was asking last week and that I resumed it quickly enough today, to remind you of the status of the bill. I have said – and you have heard it – that the bill has been reviewed, I believe, by you, which is normal. In French, there is an expression that says "change of pasture delights calves". It is natural that we want to review a text and adapt it to its way of thinking, especially when, like me, we have been practicing law for a number of years. But, unless I am mistaken, I have not had an answer to my specific question as to with which law firm you had established this recast of the draft bill, which was presented – and if I make a mistake, I must be corrected – for the first time in the Council of Ministers and which should not go back to it with the supplementary amendments because it is a procedure called NMBS. How will the Commission react to this? Initially, she was studying a file on the basis of other draft royal decrees. There, she sees a folder that is evolving and completely configured in a different way. Will the Commission again require questions and answers and, if so, will the timing for the CRM be maintained or delayed? These are the two questions about the journey: with which law firm and which public procurement? And does the European Commission have to look at this again, knowing that the government, unless I am mistaken, must not do so? The second question relating to the Regions has remained unanswered, while I am pleased that the new study by haulogy will be able to examine next week all the very important details of this project, which I have supported and which I will continue to support. You say you are in consultation with the Regions, which is common for many subjects, including energy. Do you already have any idea how the cost will affect the consumer's bill between the Regions and the federal government? It is of crucial importance and it must be agreed so that the powers do not encroach on each other. In other words, if an effort is made by the federal government to limit the cost of the MRC, and new regional projects are likely to have an impact on the consumer's bill, the federal effort should not be lost by the increased consumer bill by the Regions. I would like answers on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u36	Madam Minister, I believe that I have received a fairly complete answer to my questions, and I appreciate that; I do not want to go crazy about that. I must, of course, allow your answers to be settled and analysed. I'd like to replicate the following. With regard to the estimation of the cost of CRM, I have noted that it is based on the latest study, on a number of assumptions and assumptions, although better than those of 2018, but that there is no certainty. It's about 3.6 to 3.8 billion, which remains a huge amount. We are still not convinced of its need. I also asked you a question about the reference scenario and the volume determination. That was mainly a question of understanding, and I thank you for the information. With regard to the derating factor, I am somewhat surprised by your answer, because that is really counter-intuitive. So I'm not reassured. You're smart enough, so I hope you don't put blind faith in what Elijah puts into that model. I am, of course, waiting impatiently for the opinion or advice of the CREG. Although it is only a proposal, it does not reassure me. The explanation you gave about the nuclear factor, I find a little odd in relation to the real situation. With regard to the correction factor and the CNE parameter, it remains odd that the CREG proposals are not followed. However, I have noted that you wish to control the costs as much as possible and also that you will come to Parliament if, for example, the intermediate price limit of EUR 20 per kilowatt per year is exceeded. I find it strange, since the CREG has made a cost-benefit analysis. Everyone is always talking about costs and benefits, and the Liberals are also a specialist in this. When it comes to taxpayers' money to the multinationals, I find it strange that these principles should be pushed aside. Controlling the price as much as possible is certainly good, but it will still cost the consumer. I still have questions about how to adapt the methodology. I appreciate your honesty, but I'm still disappointed that you're putting climate history next to you before the 2021 auction. You say the methodology of ERA leaves several options open. That's right, but they all have in common that they want to charge for climate change. I read: "The expected frequency and magnitude of future climate conditions shall be taken into account." You argue that, unfortunately, you should base yourself on an updated MAF19, because it was too late. In fact, climate change is not taken into account and yet the CREG has clearly demonstrated that it is a decisive and sensitive factor. I am really sorry that another green minister says he can't do otherwise, because we would be late, when perhaps in June a few months after the auction, a study will come out with other consequences as a result. I will leave it at that today, but I understand that the debate will continue next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u37	The debate will indeed continue next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u38	May I point out to the committee members the following: Even though I am not sitting here with an hourglass or with a clock such as in plenary, questions and answers are linked to a certain time frame. Now all kinds of questions have come together and I have taken over what I found from last week. I will not say here after a few minutes that the discussion is closed; we should not work like this in committee. On the other hand, we must also be able to make progress in committee. It is almost 11.30 a.m. and we are still dealing with what we had last sitting, while there are still a lot of questions on the agenda. Questions are open, but I will also see to it that, in terms of answers and replies, we respect more or less the time frame laid down in our Rules of Procedure. I didn't preach the revolution here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u39	I would be pleased to hear that. Anyway...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u40	You don't know what revolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u41	A liberal, isn't it? This is a total of 19 questions, not more. I made eight of them myself. I know that there is no other way and that you cannot give me two minutes' speaking time. In that case, you should be able to depart from the Rules of Procedure at a certain time. Maybe you should tell us how much time someone gets.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u42	Mr Warmoes, you apply the Rules of Procedure in your committee as you wish...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u43	Mr President, we sometimes have topical debates with 130 questions in our committee. I'm gonna have to adjust a sleeve to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u44	I didn't always think that was the best way to work. I believe that a committee should be able to do a number of things within a reasonable period of time. Let us be reasonable, knowing that next week we will have to have the debate again in committee, and having noted that the Minister is showing transparency. In der Beschränkung zeigt sich der Meister .
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u45	How many files are now blocked by air constraints, and what is the cumulative power of these blocked folders? Is there an impact of these air constraints on offshore wind development? In what timing can we hope to have feedback on the tests of the "Wind Farm" filters? On the basis of international experience, do you envisage a collaboration with the Minister of Mobility and the Minister of the Environment, but also with the federated entities, in the framework of the "roadmap monitoring" so that the latter also takes into account the climate and energy emergencies of our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u46	Mr President, Madam Minister, today Belgium is the world's fourth largest producer of offshore wind power and is in the top 3 in Europe for offshore wind power generation. However, if the first eight wind farms in the Belgian North Sea are now operational, we should not see new wind turbines running at sea for several years. Minister, do you confirm that the government has scheduled a new call for tenders for offshore wind energy for 2023? Elia, the system manager, must strengthen the system in order to absorb electricity from the sea. However, the completion of this work is not expected until 2028. To this end, could you give us the status of the files Loop du Hainaut and the connection to Zeebruges where the electricity of the wind turbines arrives? Finally, these land links often involve recourse to the Council of State against town planning permits. Are you considering taking an initiative, together with your government colleagues, to amend the Law on Recourse to the Council of State and, in particular, with regard to the imposition of strict deadlines for these projects that are in the public interest?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u47	Mr President, Madam Minister, over the past ten years, offshore wind turbines have developed considerably in the North Sea, reaching a production capacity of 2,200 MW on January 1, 2021. Given the full operationality of the eight wind farms in the Belgian North Sea announced on 4 January by the Belgian Offshore Platform, we will thus increase from 6.7 TWh of electricity produced in 2020 to 8 TWh in 2021, equivalent to the electricity consumption of 2.2 million households or 10% of the total consumption in Belgium. Three other production areas have already been defined in our territorial waters, starting with the Princess Elisabeth area, where it is planned to double the wind production capacity to reach 4.5 GW. The problem is that, according to the Belgian Offshore Platform, "construction works should remain at a standstill for a few years". I have read that we should not see new wind turbines running at sea for about ten years, which, as the press reports, represents a major shutdown after the installation of 81 wind turbines for an additional installed capacity of 706 MW in 2020. Minister, have you, within the government, any data on the impact of the offshore wind blow on local economic activity? What is your analysis of Belgium's ability to increase its renewable energy capacity at the very moment when the government is doing its utmost to meet our supply capacity to get out of nuclear power in 2025? Why is it not possible to schedule a call for tenders for offshore wind turbines before 2023 in order to start as soon as possible the work necessary for the operationalisation of a second offshore wind energy production area? What is further apparent from your exchanges with Elia regarding its ability to transport electricity produced in these new offshore areas? In particular, I read that Elia was to strengthen its transport capacity and that the necessary work in this framework would not be completed until 2028. I would therefore also like more information on this matter. Finally, with regard to this work, which Elia says is necessary, will you at the same time take into account opinions from the local authorities in particular - I am thinking, for example, of La Boucle du Hainaut? I do not need to draw you a drawing, it is a source of much controversy in the regions concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u48	Madam Minister, on December 8, I was already questioning you on the file of the Loop du Hainaut. As you know, I am particularly attentive to this issue, being a resident of Soignies, a city that is for the moment particularly affected by this project of a very high voltage line. Having a great deal of friends and contacts in all the neighbouring communes which are also heavily affected by this electric highway, I am constantly informed, whether at the municipal, regional or federal level, by my colleagues or by the federal authorities, about this matter which I am very concerned about. It is also concerned about tens of thousands of citizens. Rarely, a dossier has also been rotten, and has aroused such a wave of emotion among the population in our region, and especially in Hainaut. I'm not going to insult you to remind you in broad terms of the project, this realization of 380 kV electric overhead line. Nothing higher is done in Belgium by alternating current, for a transport capacity of 6 GW between the posts of Avelgem and Courcelles. When I questioned you on 8 December, you answered me very factually, referring very often to the responsibility of regional minister Willy Borsus. Yet in mid-January we learned from the press that a letter from you had been sent to Willy Borsus on 17 November, so before my question. You may contradict me in your answer, but it was still felt that the tone was very different from the very detached answer that you were able to give me on December 8. I explain to myself: in this letter, you strongly supported the need for the project, recalling its public utility. Mr Bombled also said so in his question. This is my first problem: for the moment, except through studies carried out by Elia, no one has yet proved to me the public utility of this specific project, of this electric highway mastodon, for the Belgian supply. On the other hand, one thing is certain, it is that I know that the Loop of Hainaut will serve as a transit, since Elia pays for the transport of the flows. It is well known that this will be used to transport electricity from France to Germany via Belgium. We will fulfill our tolling role and Elia will be able to cash what he has to cash in terms of transportation. We feel like we're getting out of a public utility file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u49	Mr Prévot, could you take into account your speaking time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u50	Mr. President, I promise you I'm going to abbreviate. In short, the project must go through two major administrative steps: an application for a revision of the sector plans and an application for a town planning permit to determine precisely where the infrastructure will have to be built. On 4 January, Elia sent the Walloon government the basic file, accompanied by letters from the residents and opinions of the municipal authorities concerned by the Hainaut Loop. Madam Minister, on what studies – and other than those carried out by Elia, whose naivety I think you are not the spokesperson – have you based yourself to support the Walloon government? What opinion did Elia give you? Have any changes to the basic draft been made by Elia, as a result of the many concerns expressed by the citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u51	Madam Secretary of State, the PTB is, of course, also very attentive to the file of the Loop du Hainaut. He is particularly interested in the Walloon Parliament, since it is essentially a regional competence. We are, therefore, closely monitoring the Walloon government in this regard. Nevertheless, I wanted to ask you a question about the file. In November 2020 the Wind Europe organisation published a report entitled Making the most of Europe: Grid Optimization Technologies to build a greener Europe. In this report, Wind Europe shows how and why mature and available technologies would make it possible to optimise existing networks, increase the share of wind energy and photovoltaics, reduce the bridging of renewable production and reduce investment costs – optimisation being, of course, less expensive than new infrastructure. During last month's debate on the Hainaut Loop, you reiterated that you would remain vigilant about this issue. Madam Secretary of State, have the Belgian authorities analysed the possibilities of optimising the existing electricity grid? Would you place this optimization as a priority before building new infrastructure? Are you going to do everything you can to find out if it would do without the Hainaut Loop? There, Mr. President, I spoke for a minute and 28 seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u52	Wonderful! When it's okay, I say it too!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u53	Colleagues, with regard to Mr Cogolati's questions at the federal level, there are currently no cases blocked by air constraints for wind power generation projects. Onshore production facilities must have regional authorizations. If you would like more information on the impact of air constraints on these onshore facilities, I recommend that you contact colleagues in the regional entities. The plan for the development of marine areas refers to the areas for renewable energy for the Belgian part of the North Sea. As part of the process of drawing up this plan, various consultations were held. The competent bodies for air mobility have been involved, in particular with regard to defence mobility. At present, there is no impact of air constraints on offshore wind development. As far as wind farm filters are concerned, this is a competence of the Minister of Mobility. In its 2019 Sustainable Development Report, skeyes announced the development of a comprehensive approach to work with the Minister of Defence to work with new monitoring systems, which are less impacted by wind turbines. In the long run, this will free up more space for the construction of wind turbines. If necessary, I will actively participate in any initiative that skeyes will put in place in this context. With regard to Mr. Ben Achour, my colleague Minister Van Quickenborne, has already responded on 19 January. I would add that the development of the offshore wind industry in Belgium for the construction, operation and maintenance of the parks and the resulting export activity has already generated about 14,000 jobs. Due to additional developments in Belgium and abroad, we expect this number to rise to 24,000 by 2030. These jobs are, on the one hand, distributed among the jobs created by deployments in Belgium and, on the other hand, by Belgian farms for deployment in Europe and the rest of the world. Job creation is generated by high value-added technical services such as engineering with almost 40% of jobs created and also construction, transport and financial services, each creating between 10% and 15% of jobs. The offshore wind industry makes a huge contribution to our economy. This is one of the reasons why this choice was explicitly included in the Government's Recovery and Redeployment Plan. I take this opportunity, Mr President, because I fear that I will not be able to answer the important questions that have been introduced. In this plan, offshore infrastructure was included because we were pioneers in this sector and it brought us a lot. This sector is dear to us. We want to support it in order to continue to benefit from its added values. Mr Bombled, I confirm that the launch of a competition procedure for the award of State concessions for the development of wind farms in the Princess Elisabeth area is scheduled for 2023. As you already know, an increase in offshore wind production capacity is planned to reach a capacity of about 4GW in the Belgian part of the North Sea. Before proceeding with this competition, a number of steps still need to be taken, including the development of the regulatory framework and the completion of various pre-environmental and technical studies, which I share with Mr. Van Quickenborne. We have shared the skills in this area and come together. As for the need to strengthen the network, the current electricity transmission network in Hainaut is a 150 kV and 70 kV network, which reaches saturation by 2030. A stable and strong electricity grid, with sufficient connecting capacity, is an essential criterion in the economic development of a Region: Wallonia, and especially Hainaut. The basin is in strong competition with its close neighbours. A project of the Hainaut loop type can come to relieve the existing network and recreate capacity in it. Moreover, in view of the price of electricity that must remain affordable and the climatic ambitions of our country and our regions, the contribution of a Hainaut loop is a central element. It will also bring green electricity to Wallonia and Hainaut, which is also a guarantee of sustainable activity, particularly in areas of economic activity where the current low power supply, or the projected shortfall, are indeed handicaps to date. Furthermore, referring to the ambitions of the Green Deal regarding the need to develop offshore wind turbines in order to achieve carbon neutrality in Europe in 2050, the federal government will identify additional opportunities for the integration of offshore energy into the Belgian energy mix. The development of a robust and gridded electricity transmission system is an essential condition for this ambition. For the sake of transparency, I would add that these are three paragraphs which I also included in my letter to my colleague Mr Borsus, to which our colleague, Mr Prévot, referred. I would like to point out that this authorisation process, both for Ventilus and for the Hainaut loop, is a regional competence. The implementation of these projects involves two major administrative steps: an application for a revision of the sector plans to include a main energy transport infrastructure and an application for a town planning permit, which will determine with detail where the infrastructure will be built. The two dossiers – Ventilus and the Hainaut loop – are currently in the hands of regional governments. Concertation meetings shall be organised with the federal entities concerned within the framework of the Coordination and Facilitation Committee for the granting of authorisations as regards the authorisation procedures for these network enhancements in order to ensure that the deadlines for the implementation of these important projects are met. In conclusion, an amendment to the Law on Recourse to the Council of State, in particular with regard to the imposition of the time limit for such public interest projects, is not envisaged. In response to questions from Messrs. Prevot and Warmoes, I will add a few more elements. In the previous legislature, my predecessor validated the federal development plan covering the period 2020-2030. The plan is drawn up after a procedure including the opinion of the CREG and the opinion of the regional governments. The procedure also provides for a two-month national public consultation and an environmental impact assessment. By validating the development plan, it has therefore validated the investments that the network manager must make in order to meet the expected needs covering, in particular, the renewal and extension of the network. In this list of needs is the project of the Ligue du Hainaut. This project is proposed after various studies, including a cost-benefit analysis, a welfare analysis, a technical analysis, market and network studies, using analyses of future scenarios to identify, among other things, the requirements of the system. The federal development plan also includes projects to optimize and renovate existing infrastructure. Optimisation of the latter and the creation of new infrastructures are complementary and therefore cannot be separated. All these elements are necessary to ensure a stable and reliable electricity grid. As far as the Hainaut Loop is concerned, the procedure for the revision of the sector plan has been initiated and is under way at the level of the Region, as I have already said. I would like to point out that this authorisation process is a regional competence. In doing so, the Walloon government is fully competent to answer specific questions about the project. Moreover, it is for the Walloon government to analyse all the reactions of the public and the municipal authorities in depth and to take them into account when drawing up the procedure for revising the sector plan. My reply of December 8th is therefore in relation to the letter I sent to Mr Borsus in response to a letter he had sent to me himself. The procedure laid down in regional legislation provides for public participation. In my letter to Minister Borsus, I describe in detail the need for strengthening the network and stress the importance of the participation process.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u54	That was also a very detailed answer. I will not point the finger at anyone, but if we respect the procedure of the questions, we can deal with the questions within a reasonable time. You have to leave at noon. The next round of questions will be on 23 February. We're on February 2nd today. At some point a question loses its relevance. I repeat that the quantity of questions can also lead to other forms of irrelevantness. That's my personal opinion. I won't change my mind about that at my age. This afternoon, we will have to set another date or reach consensus on the remaining issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u55	Mr President, I thank the Minister for her answer. I also propose that we move forward on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u56	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, Belgium is a champion of offshore wind energy, but only 9.9% of its energies came from renewable energy in 2019 at the level of offshore wind energy. But our country is progressing and that is a positive point, as is the fact that offshore wind is important to our economy and clearly to the economy of the north of the country. However, we lack space and sometimes face Nimby effects. As a local agent, I can imagine the fears that this kind of project can sometimes generate for the citizen. But I take note of your position not to reform legislation on the imposition of strict time limits following certain recourses to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u57	Madam Minister, thank you and I will refer to the record to properly incorporate your many and sometimes complex responses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answers. Be careful, don't take everything Elia tells you for cash! I no longer have any confidence in Elia for this project, especially in view of the completely opaque procedure that has been carried out for several months. Don't hesitate to inquire and be curious, even though I understand that you are returning fully to the responsibility of the Region, because there are alternatives that are unfortunately not mentioned!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u59	Minister, I have not had an answer to the question of the optimisation of existing networks and its possible impact on the Hainaut loop. That's a little too bad. For the rest, I have taken note of the fact that the Walloon government is fully responsible – but I already knew it – as well as the fact that the Hainaut loop is part of a plan that was drawn up during the previous federal and Walloon legislatures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u60	Madam Minister, the Brexit may have some impact on the use of the connectors and the way in which the electricity market of the CWE zone will be or will remain linked to that of the United Kingdom. At the same time, there are also reports that the rules may not be fully in place until 2022. This means that we now have some sort of vacuum for certain rules in the energy market. In fact, some countries and the United Kingdom themselves have already warned that this situation could make things less efficient than if the normal rules of the market were to apply. This usually also has an effect on the price and that price has to be paid somewhere. Undoubtedly, there are also some concerns for our own companies operating on the market. Hence some questions. What impact does this have on our electricity market in the short and medium term? Is that also quantifiable, well aware that at best these are estimates? What steps are being taken to minimise the disadvantages and what role will you take to defend the interests of energy users and producers? Is it true that only final agreements will enter into force in the course of 2022, or is it not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u61	Mr Wollants, on the future trading regime for electricity interconnections between the United Kingdom and the continent of Europe, a multi-region loose volume coupling is being put forward. This is, of course, a step backwards compared to the implicit allocation that has been applied so far, but that follows from the fact that the United Kingdom has left the internal market. However, it is a step forward against the explicit allocation, which would have been the case in the absence of a deal. In recent months, the system operators, administrations and regulators have made the necessary preparations to correctly implement the ad-interim solution, with a great deal of attention being paid to informing traders about the changes and the additional actions they need to take. The transition has certainly gone well. The preparation of the multi-region loose coupling will take time, including for technical discussions, implementation and regulatory approval of technical procedures, and will be finalised in 2022. My administration is planning consultations with the relevant network operators and the European Commission in order to obtain further clarification on the envisaged regime and the implementation calendar. As far as your question on the economic impact is concerned, there are currently no figures. A cost-benefit analysis of the new regime should be carried out. The results of that evaluation will be studied closely by my administration. If appropriate, additional actions will be taken to maximise the benefits for consumers and the economy in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u62	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. We look forward to seeing what the effects will be. Let me return to the previous debate. We are already seeing a number of effects of this in the field of cross-border participation. We must also pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u63	"Madam Minister, after seven years of discussions, the European Union and China reached a political agreement in principle at the end of December 2020 on the "China-EU Comprehensive Agreement on Investment" (CAI), which is intended to facilitate European companies' investment in China.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u64	Could you clarify your position? What are Belgium's objections to energy?"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u65	Mr Cogolati, this is followed in the first place by the trade sector, for which Ministers Dermagne and Wilmès are responsible on behalf of the Federal Government, together with the Regions. The Prime Minister is, for his part, at a higher level. Due to China's large concessions, the European Commission, through its Director-General, transmitted to the Member States on 15 December a proposal for a package to enter into the final phase of the negotiations and conclude them. This package contains proposals for a European commitment, limited to the energy sector – particularly solar and wind energy. This proposal for a package was also presented orally and in detail by the Commission on 16 December in the form of a video conference at which Member States had the opportunity to ask all their questions. Subsequently, all the information was transmitted in writing to the competent Belgian administrations. A first coordination meeting of the CEO was held on the morning of 17 December to prepare our position. With the help of the expertise of the administrations concerned and the coordination of the DGE, Belgium, on the other hand, had a vote in the final phase of the negotiations, which culminated in a political agreement on 30 December. The issue of energy arose with a view to concluding negotiations between China and the European Union at the end of December, as talks between the two partners suddenly accelerated following unexpected political change at the highest level in China. Indeed, China, until now, seemed to refuse to commit itself to certain fundamental demands of the European Union. With regard to the Commission's proposal on energy concessions, Belgium proposed a review reservation during the Trade Policy Committee (Full Members) on 17 December. At the Committee of Permanent Representatives (Coreper) on 8 January, our country reiterated – in the European Union's Energy Working Group – its request for a more in-depth discussion of the offer of access to the Belgian market for renewable energy The concrete reservations and points of attention of Belgium, as discussed, include questions on the timing and method followed, concerns about the geostrategic consequences and the absence of a component on investment protection, a lack of guarantee for the sustainable development component, the need for time to study the agreement, the flexibility of access to the EU electricity market for solar and wind energy. One of the concerns is the 5% investment that will be possible for all Chinese investments in this energy sector. There are practical problems. There is the third energy package that has been negotiated for more than ten years. It provides for a dissociation (unbundling) between production and transport undertakings. How can we ensure that this is the case for Chinese companies? Finally, the political agreement was concluded on 30 December 2020 during the video conference between the leaders of the European Union and China. During the formal technical consultation on market access scheduled for the month of January, I will ensure that Belgium's concerns on the energy side continue to be defended. For example, Belgium also requested, at Coreper on 8 January 2021, that this could be discussed in more detail in the relevant Council Energy Working Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic357x.u66	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I can hear your reservation and I can only agree with you. Indeed, we already knew that this treaty, this draft investment agreement, was dangerous for respect for human rights and, in particular, for the rights of minorities, such as the Uighur Muslim community in Xinjiang province, since this treaty does not formally prohibit forced labour. In addition, we now know that it is potentially dangerous for our renewable energy production market. Once again, I believe that this treaty is anachronistic and that it should not be ratified, in any case, as it stands.
