ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u1	Madam President, I have two questions in this actua debate. Because there is only sporadic opportunity to ask questions to Minister Dermagne in this committee, there were two weeks between the dates of the submission of those questions. In the meantime, 99 questions are already on the agenda today, that says enough. I make a summary of my questions, since they deal with the same subject, namely temporary unemployment. The companies have used the system massively in these corona times. That is perfectly understandable, by the way. In April last year it was a peak of 1.2 million employees. Over the whole of 2020, this meant a cost of EUR 4.3 billion. Of course, that's not from the cat. That arrangement has now been extended, and we have understood that in the meantime. Minister, what are your further plans for the temporary unemployment scheme because of corona? The RVA expects a number of temporary unemployed to eventually lose their jobs and end up in regular unemployment. How do you see that in the future and what measures will you take? My second question concerns the simplified system of temporary unemployment, which has now been extended. Workers who become temporarily unemployed due to force majeure should, in normal circumstances, be available for the labour market within three months and register, for example with the VDAB for Flanders. The simplified system makes an exception to this, so that the temporary unemployed do not have to register. At the same time, the Flemish Government has sent out a clear signal that it is not happy with the extension of that simplified system, particularly with the suspension of the obligation to register with the regional employment intermediary. Will you respond to the appeal of the Flemish Government, and in particular of Minister Crevits, who has given her opinion on this in no uncertain terms? If so, how will you do that? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u2	Colleagues, I would like to point out that the minister comes every fortnight. It is true that he came in the morning and we found that it left us too little time. Now it comes in the afternoon, but it leaves the other week for the other ministers whom we must also question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u3	My question dates from before it was clear that the temporary unemployment scheme was extended until 30 June 2021. I would nevertheless like to ask a number of specific questions concerning this extension. The questionnaire now published by the RVA dates from 5 February 2021. I think it hasn't been fully adapted yet. What conditions must be met in order to benefit from the temporary unemployment scheme which has been extended? Are they the same as before? If not, which ones are or are not renewed? I also have a question about a specific sector which is severely affected, particularly the cultural sector. What about the flexible system of temporary unemployment for those who had a daily contract in the cultural sector? Many cultural houses are starting to prepare for a reopening from 1 May, under conditions, with much less audience, and often outside, because that is what they are offered. It is important for them to be able to lay down day-to-day contracts. But if it still fails and cannot be reopened, do the workers whose daily contract is cancelled have the right to temporary unemployment? If so, is that day-to-day contract, which does not date from 31 October 2020, as required by the original conditions, proof of the right to temporary unemployment? This is an important demand for the heavily affected cultural sector. For example, cultural houses can prepare themselves well for possible reopening and at the same time offer the necessary social protection to the cultural workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u4	The government recently extended the aid measures for companies and employees until the end of June. That is important, because companies and employees are having a hard time. The simplified system for temporary unemployment is also part of the package of support measures. In normal circumstances, workers who become temporarily unemployed for reasons of force majeure must register with a regional employment service after three months, such as the VDAB, Le Forem, Actiris or ADG. There is no such obligation to register in the simplified scheme for workers temporarily unemployed due to corona-force majeure. These workers therefore do not really need to turn to regional employment services. That's too bad. In Flanders alone, more than 160,000 workers are temporarily unemployed. Flemish Minister for Work Crevits calls for workers who are temporarily unemployed because of corona, a scheme that was extended, to be sent to the VDAB after three months, preferably compulsory. This allows them to take an education or internship, so that they develop skills. Moreover, if necessary, they can temporarily or perhaps even permanently reorientate themselves. This is also seen in many employees in the event sector. In this way, the period of temporary unemployment will not become a waste of time. Mrs Crevits has probably already contacted you and you will be aware of my questions. Do you also consider it important to re-activate the unemployed as soon as possible by orienting them to the employment service, where they can receive training or perform another job, whether temporarily or not? Will you still amend the simplified scheme for temporary unemployment due to corona to that effect? When can we do that? If you don't want to, what are the reasons for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u5	There is a great concern that workers will end up in full unemployment from temporary unemployment. Therefore, one wants to focus on supporting pathways towards activation and professional reorientation. With the VESOC agreement, the Flemish Government has also put a number of specific questions to the Minister. I will not repeat my questions again, because they are in line with the questions put by Mr Anseuw and Mrs Lanjri, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u6	Colleagues have already made a good start on the problem. The Flemish Government is engaged in an activation policy for the temporary unemployed, especially for intensive temporary unemployed. These temporary unemployed people must register with the employment service for reorientation and training, which we are discussing here in our committee. Minister, you have already consulted with the Regions. But what was the result of these discussions? Have you made any arrangements? The measure has now been extended, but what happens afterwards? In September 2020, we decided with the government to maintain the flexible system of temporary unemployment due to corona for specific sectors, which may still be necessary after June. What about the transitional provisions for economic unemployment? The transitional regime included measures such as the payment of a supplement of EUR 5.63 and took into account the need for training and training. Minister, will a transitional system be put in place again in June? Or do the old systems with associated conditions apply? I'm thinking about the return weeks that have been incorporated into the law. What is your position on the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u7	In view of the decision taken at its core on 12 February, this aid measure is to be extended until 30 June 2021, given the economic situation and the health situation today. I have been saying since the beginning of the crisis that we will do what is necessary for as long as it is necessary to support workers and businesses. The same has been decided on measures concerning the organisation of work in sectors such as health care, education and agriculture. The simplified system of temporary unemployment has proved its worth by allowing firms with a minimum of formalities to rely on the principle of temporary unemployment. The procedure for applying for and paying benefits to the unseen high number of temporary unemployed was also kept as simple as possible. This allows for a very short-term payment of the benefit for the vast majority of the unemployed. Since the corona crisis is not yet over, it is appropriate to maintain this system. This is an essential measure to support businesses, maintain workers' purchasing power and domestic consumption. Temporary unemployment coronavirus also helps to avoid a large number of dismissals. Of course, temporary unemployment coronavirus is not intended to last forever. That is why I have asked the social partners to think about accompanying measures. The National Labour Council is actively discussing this. Discussions take place on the integration and consistency of the impact of coronavirus in the law providing for measures to assist companies in the face of Brexit. I hope, of course, that the social partners will be able to make proposals quickly. To answer Mr Bombled's particular question, I have here at the disposal of all parliamentarians the number of unemployed concerning the development of temporary unemployment since the beginning of the crisis broken down by age of the unemployed and by month of the year 2020. As regards the extension of the non-payment of the occupational allowance for companies which reduce the use of temporary unemployment, the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation is not competent to answer this question. This is a matter for the FPS Finances. As regards registration as a job seeker, the temporary unemployed for reasons of force majeure must, in principle, register as a job seeker after three months. However, I would point out that the system of temporary unemployment due to force majeure has created an atypical situation, in which, for example, temporary unemployment for economic reasons is also indicated in the form of force majeure. This means that most of the workers are not permanently temporarily unemployed but only on a limited number of days per month, which is not necessarily pre-determined. Many workers are also temporarily unemployed for reasons relating to the employee himself, for example because they have to go into quarantine themselves or to avail themselves of their right to absence for the care of a child because the school or childcare is closed. Moreover, compulsory registration as a job seeker would result in additional administrative complexity for the still very large number of temporary unemployed because the payout institutions and subsequently the RVA must check this before they can pay out. This would undoubtedly result in delays in payment of benefits for the payout institutions, which are already very difficult to deal with all applications in good time. Moreover, this will lead to the unjustified refusal of benefits to some workers who may have been unaware or not sufficiently informed about the precise scope of this obligation. I would add that the compulsory registration of a large number of temporary unemployed may cause problems for regional employment agencies. That does not at all prevent me from completely biting Minister Crevits that the necessary guidance and training should be provided to the temporary unemployed, for example. I have therefore asked the RVA to work with the regional authorities to find solutions. At present, the regional institutions have been receiving data from the temporary unemployed, including the number of days per month on which they are temporarily unemployed, for a long time from the third week after the end of the month. On this basis, they can contact the workers for whom they consider it appropriate. Recently, agreements were made to allow the exchange of data to be significantly faster, so that the regional institutions are aware of this almost immediately after the end of the month. I am, of course, thinking about the solutions to be found to ensure that the temporary unemployed most at risk of job loss are reoriented as quickly as possible. Of course, my reflection continues with the federated entities, which must be involved in this process. In this way, we will be able to get in touch as soon as possible with these people, who are most exposed to this risk. In short, our work continues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u8	Minister, you have given an appalling answer to my questions. Anyone who follows the corona crisis and the labour market at some point already sees the mood: a lot of the temporary unemployed are at risk. I am not the only one who says that to lose their jobs this year and finally end up in unemployment. It is therefore more important than ever that the regional authorities, such as the VDAB in Flanders, should also be given every opportunity and space to reach just the most vulnerable people, namely those who have been temporarily unemployed for quite a long time. Because you do not want to answer the Flemish government's question, you actually make it impossible for Flanders to do what is necessary to guide as many people as possible from nearby, to offer training or to lead them temporarily to another job. Flanders wants to make every effort to keep as many people at work as possible and to put them back to work after the corona crisis, but you make this impossible from the federal level. However, very clear agreements have been made, including with the social partners. You always take pride in the social dialogue, but you wipe your feet in this dossier. I find that incomprehensible. The social partners are also asking parties for this, at least on the Flemish side. You have also written in the coalition agreement so that you want to pursue an asymmetric labour market policy. On the Walloon side, if one is not so interested in the obligation to register, which is a tool for the regional partners working on employment services to reach people who are difficult to reach, then that is no problem, but at least give Flanders the chance to do what is necessary, what it has agreed with the social partners to keep people at work and to ensure that they have a good job. The only argument you are raising in order not to do so is that it would be even more difficult for the payout institutions that have to pay the temporary unemployment benefits to deal with the continuing problems with them, in the future, questions on the agenda would be made even more difficult to do their work in good time and without errors. This computer-says-no-mentality will cause people to become unemployed. That is really vengeful, especially because the Flemish Government is formally asking for space and freedom to work with people who are temporarily unemployed for a long time and who are therefore really at risk of becoming unemployed. However, you refuse to do so. I would therefore like to thank you for the policy you seem to be in favour of. I find it incomprehensible. It is an incredibly missed opportunity and we will oppose your lethargy in this area with our hands and our own initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u9	Mr Anseeuw, little service communication: the sound is bad enough for the performers, because you don't have a microphone. They don't always know how to interpret everything since without a headset with built-in microphone, there is no more interpretation. As I have already said, it is always a pleasure to do a personal translation exercise during your interventions. But I remind you that interpreters must no longer translate when we don't have a headset with a microphone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u10	Madam President, I apologize. I use the same installation as at the previous meetings and there was no problem at the time. Today seems to be less good, but I have done nothing but the previous times and then it worked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u11	We know it's always a little complicated. I repeat, for interpreters, it's a little complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I agree with you that this flexible temporary unemployment is a real shock absorber and is essential for maintaining employment and purchasing power. As long as this crisis is not over, we need that measure in order to bridge the crisis. Contrary to the previous speaker, I understood that the RVA would contact the regional authorities to see what could be used for the most affected temporary unemployed. I understand, of course, that reality is more complex than what we can sometimes draw from our ivory tower. It is difficult to plan things if people are not temporarily unemployed every day, but do not know in advance when that changes. I would like to return to my essential question, that of the cultural sector. I didn't get an answer to that. This is important for that sector. If the cultural workers had certainty about what could happen to the cancelled assignments and could get temporary unemployment between 1 May and end of June or not, this could be an important motivator to record those assignments and restart them now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u13	Mr Minister, the Corona temporary unemployment mechanism has largely been useful in recent months. It is crucial for the maintenance of employment and its extension is therefore necessary. The flexibility that this regime allows is also necessary as long as the health impact of coronavirus is not under control and, ideally, as long as its economic consequences are felt. Finally, you have stated that you have had the number of people who have been temporarily unemployed since the beginning of the crisis - you are talking about precise figures. Can we have access to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u14	Minister, we are of course pleased that there is an extension of temporary unemployment. However, I would like to ask you once again to assist the payout institutions. The people there work almost seven days on seven and work overtime against the stars in order to make as many payouts as possible. They no longer see the forest through the trees and so they really need help, I think. It is not that they would not be of good will or not work hard; I am sure that they all do. An additional point is that we recently heard from the press that women are at greater risk of losing their jobs as a result of the economic crisis. We would also ask you not to neglect this aspect. If there is one thing that Corona has taught us, it is that we all benefit from a very strong social security system and that we are now spending a lot of money on all these benefits. Indeed, the people must be helped. But that well will have to be filled someday. In this respect, of course, we are taking a decision. You have proposed a reform of social security. I'm sure there will be. But there really must be a fair tax, which also activates the greatest capacity to keep the social security system alive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u15	Minister, you have raised a number of practical concerns. In itself, I can understand practical objections. For example, you say that not everyone is continuously out of work for three months, sometimes for a few days. But it's not about that target group, Minister. Flemish Minister Crevits has made it clear that it concerns intensive temporary unemployed, i.e. at least three months in one piece, and at least ten days each. It's not about the other target groups. You also say that sometimes one has to be quarantined or stay at home for a child who has to be quarantined. We understand that, too. There are exceptions to this. Besides, not only for those who are temporarily unemployed because of force majeure because of corona, but also for others. In those cases, the VDAB or Actiris will obviously not ask those people to come anyway. You are also mistakenly saying that people may not be sufficiently informed and may therefore be wrongly refused. That is not the intention, of course. It is important that we do not waste any time now. These target groups must be well defined, together with the regions. There must also be an indication of who it is and who it is not. In this way, effective opportunities must be given. The only way to really help these people is to lead them to the VDAB, Actiris or Forem and not to keep them in temporary unemployment, especially if they actually result in permanent unemployment and associated poverty. It is therefore necessary to ensure that those who are intensively temporarily unemployed, at least three months and at least ten days a month, are led to registration with the VDAB, Actiris and Forem. It is necessary to ensure that they are able to take an internship or training there. That can be useful for their current job, but if they have to reorientate to another job, it can also be useful there. That is certainly not a lost energy. You say that you want to consult with the RVA and regional mediation services and that you also want to involve the social partners. We are absolutely not opposed to this, but let it go quickly, make sure that no time is wasted and that people are helped in this way. The corona problems won't be over by tomorrow. Some people have been in temporary unemployment for months now because of corona.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u16	Minister, I understand from your reply that there is contact with the RVA to analyse the figures and, on that basis, to consider whether solutions should be offered to re-activate people. I welcome the strong commitment to these contacts, that cooperation with the Länder, to ensure that there is a faster reorientation. However, I would like to stress that we believe that this follow-up is absolutely necessary, especially in the case of people who are expected to find themselves in regular unemployment. It must be very strongly stressed that routes must be started. This can be done by developing a joint strategy to activate that target group as soon as possible. We need to play very briefly on the ball there, so that we do not end up with a lot of regular unemployed people. It is ultimately through reorientation, training and follow-up that we can activate people back.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u17	Minister, with regard to the activation barrier for the intensive unemployed, I fully agree with Mr Lanjri. Furthermore, I think it is important that you also pay attention to what should happen after June. We must go back to a normal situation or to a new normal, but in a number of sectors the impact will remain high. Hopefully we will be able to come to a normal situation again for many sectors. What will that mean, however, for the temporary unemployment system? Will there be a transitional period? I would ask you to keep this on the agenda so that it can be communicated properly. Like the previous round, this will require a lot of consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u18	Mrs Moscufo and Mr Hedebouw are absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u19	Mr Minister, on 25 February, a common union front was present in Etalle, in the south of the province of Luxembourg. He was also present in Bertrix, Marche, Libramont and in other places, as part of the negotiations of the interprofessional agreement. The purpose of this gathering was to recall the FEB's desire to impose a ceiling of 0.4% wage increase for 2021 and 2022, i.e. six euros gross per month for the minimum wage, and a little more for the skilled workers of essentials - workers who gave themselves without counting and still give themselves during this health crisis. The members of the unions recalled their conviction that the workers deserve more, much more, starting with a fair distribution of the wealth they have produced themselves while companies and sectors are doing rather well: +18% net profits for Carrefour; 511 million for Colruyt; 152 million for Brico; 10.38 million for Ferrero Ardennes. Minister, following this demonstration and the demands that have been made, I have several questions to share with you among the demands raised by the union bench that day. How do you intend to provide flexibility for negotiation? Could the standard be indicative and non-imperative, which would ensure freedom of negotiation for trade union organisations? What do you think of the creation of a solidarity fund financed by all employers in order to raise the minimum wage? What measures are in place by the government with regard to career development? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u20	As no one has wanted to add to the debate, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u21	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your various recurring questions on this important subject. I have already had the opportunity to speak on several occasions about these negotiations, which are still under way. I will not remind you of the importance of social dialogue in the history of our country, for the government and within the framework of the government agreement. The negotiations of an interprofessional agreement are obviously an important event in this social dialogue. They are also a delicate and difficult moment. As a reminder, the Interprofessional Agreement (IPA) defines a range of policies and measures such as the maximum margin for the development of the wage cost for the next two years, employment measures, measures to combat the wage gap between men and women, restructuring measures and training objectives, which are known to be important. Those negotiations are always difficult. Finding an agreement is never easy. This year, the corona crisis and the economic situation that varies from sector to sector make the debate even more complicated. The amendments to the 1996 law on the protection of competitiveness in 2017 also made things somewhat more complicated. This is one of the difficult points of the ongoing negotiations. But, as you know, the conclusion of an agreement requires the social partners to find a subtle balance between the demands of workers and employers. In this context, the social partners obviously need time. Overbidding is never a good thing. It does not allow negotiation or discussion to proceed. Together with the Prime Minister, I sent a letter to the social partners on 25 February to clarify the situation and to offer prospects for further negotiations. We have committed ourselves to implementing the agreement of the social partners, in particular by means of letters of conversion. We have also foreseen that measures taken in the context of the Corona crisis, such as vaccination leave or the agreement between the social partners on compulsory telework, will not offset the margin available. We also told the social partners that they were allowed to negotiate cyclical increases (one shot) in companies or even in sectors that would have made profits during the coronavirus crisis. I am in regular contact with workers' and employers' representatives and met them yesterday noon and evening. This morning, I had another contact with the Chairman of the Group of 10. It has been communicated to me that some bodies still have to decide this week on the continuation of the negotiations. You will understand that out of respect for them, I will not decide today what they might have to decide or what positions they would take in the coming hours and days. No partner has yet definitively left the negotiating table, but I must tell you that the points of disagreement are and remain real. It is not for me to interfere in social consultation. At this point, my role is that of a facilitator. I call on everyone to show responsibility. As you know, the law provides for a period of two months after the publication of the report of the Secretariat of the Central Economic Council for the conclusion of an agreement between the social partners. This deadline is still in progress. Social dialogue is fundamental in our country. The discussions and tensions surrounding the interprofessional agreement also have consequences on other issues, such as the distribution of "well-being" envelopes or other issues on the National Labour Council table, including the issue of career ends. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the state of affairs regarding this interprofessional negotiation, with, as mentioned, difficult points and a situation that remains complicated and tense. However, there are a few days left for the social partners to reach an agreement. As Minister of Labour and Social Concertation, I will do everything in my power to facilitate the conclusion of such an agreement in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u22	Minister, since January I have been hearing the same story: respect for the social partners. However, you have raised a number of points on which all partners will certainly not be satisfied. Let us be honest, in our neighbouring countries they have understood very well. That's where there's an opening for payroll. Look at Germany, France and even the Netherlands. They knew the same corona pandemic we did. So if we really want to get out of this crisis, we need a real purchasing power to help people out of the crisis. There are sectors that have had a hard time. I fully agree with that. We shouldn't have blinkers on. But a lot of companies have really made monster profits. Our colleague from the PS has just made a few lists. I can keep doing this for hours. ArcelorMittal gave 300 million euros to the parent company at the end of 2019. We did the math. With an increase of 5%, this would cost EUR 30 million. Then there's enough money to give to the shareholders. That's ten times less. Ikea Belgium achieved a net profit of 49 million euros in the financial year 2020. If we could give 5 percent of the premium, one fifth of the dividend, we would be at 9.5 million euros. There's also Umicore and we can keep going. You're a socialist minister. You could follow our vision but continue to opt for social dialogue. PVDA-PTB is also for social consultation. But a social consultation within the margin of 0.4% is as much as putting the knife to the throat and even implicitly saying that it should not be any more that it should be less..
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u23	Mr Colebunders is right. Countries such as Germany and the Netherlands also have to deal with the corona crisis. The big difference is that the countries he mentions have a much lower labour cost than Belgium. This debate is about the fact that we must do everything we can to ensure that our jobs do not come out of the market, in comparison with the countries mentioned by Mr Colebunders. That is what this debate is about effectively. That is what this wage standard is so important for, and it is now calculated at 0.4%, in accordance with the 1996 law. The fact that Mrs Hanus says that that 0.4% is a question from the VBO is therefore wrong. The wage standard is a logical and inevitable consequence of that law. That law, and all the adjustments made in recent years, is precisely designed to maintain the competitiveness of our companies vis-à-vis our neighbouring countries. So that standard can't be released for N-VA at all. Making a profit is a necessary condition for companies to sustain their lives and to maintain their jobs in our country. Colleagues here complain over and over about the profits that companies make. But if those companies stopped making profits, it would inevitably cost jobs. Will this government honour the 1996 law? I asked that in my written question, but I did not receive an answer. You did mention that there are circular letters in the making. Well, I'd like to know what's going to be included. You also said that you are in regular contact with the representatives of employees and employers. Something in me says that contacts with employees' representatives are a little more frequent. This is also reflected in the attitude they have adopted since the start of the negotiations on the wage agreement. You have said something interesting about this social dialogue, namely that there is still no agreement on a number of points. I would therefore like to know exactly what the points are.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u24	Minister, I have had to reply here a few times. You want to give the social dialogue every opportunity and we still have some time and space. I know how important it is to see all parties and ensure that steps can be taken forward in the coming days. Minister, I believe in the government's good intentions to give social dialogue every opportunity. However, today I heard members of your party in this committee say that the 0.4% is a requirement of the VBO and that there should be indicative wage standards. These are, of course, matters which do not promote social dialogue, and I very much regret that. I hope that you will continue to play the role of facilitator and that you will be able to move things along with the parties in the coming days. We will undoubtedly talk about this again next week or later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u25	Minister, thank you for the answers you have provided and the beginnings of the trail you are proposing. Indeed, we are approaching the two months in which an agreement must be reached. Perhaps you will be led to set the wage standard yourself if of adventure, the negotiation failed. I observe that you are making every effort to make it happen before that. I would like to point out that the most important thing is first and foremost respect for consultation between the social partners and respect for what the government has committed itself to. I understand that we share the analysis of a very contrasting situation between the sectors. And so this wage standard that is linear and valid in all sectors, some question it. In addition, I understand that you are receptive to this questioning and to opening up opportunities for those sectors that would have had better resistance to the crisis and that would have had interesting results to go beyond this 0.4%. It is indeed adjusting the margin according to the sectors. This trail is really interesting. In addition, I invite you to take into account factors other than wages in competitiveness. Wages are not the only factor in the competitiveness of enterprises. If there is training, there is also the energy efficiency of the building, so the consumption of energy, the way people are equipped with digital technology, all of which it is important to integrate into the calculation. With regard to this calculation, there is this historical handicap which, according to some, would have disappeared today. But in any case, the calculation includes questionable elements. Perhaps this is an opportunity, now that we are in a particular momentum, to question this calculation. In particular, you propose to neutralize certain covid measures, so that those taken as positive discrimination against a particular situation experienced by the workers do not have an impact, including in the term of correction in two years' time, if these measures were to be extended in 2021. I am thinking of measures that would be taken to reduce the wage gap. These measures could be removed from the calculation of the wage margin. Finally, the safety margin is also a questional element. In fact, it de facto reduces the possibility of achieving a development comparable to neighbouring countries. In fact, we take the prospect of wage developments in neighbouring countries, we cut off the expected index, we cut the wage handicap, we cut the margin of security. So we come to this 0,4 %, which takes account of this margin of security but which seriously increases the possibility of wage developments. Of course, you have said that, and on that I agree with you: I call on everyone to take responsibility and bring the negotiations to a successful conclusion, including, in particular, on the well-being envelope. We have said this on many occasions: it is important for Ecolo-Green to allocate productivity gains.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u26	Mrs. Cornet, could you conclude?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u27	Madam President, I'm sorry, I don't have the chronometer in front of you. What I wanted to say is that we can pay attention to the distribution of productivity gains, wealth production, in a moment as special as the IPA. That is, in particular, what it serves. Thank you, and I apologize for the length of my speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u28	I was discussing myself here and I didn't look at the chronometer. This creates some case law for the following.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Together with you, I look forward to the outcome of these negotiations by the social partners. As I said in plenary, the time must now be taken to facilitate and support the negotiations. If necessary, we must do so in creative ways. Mr Cornet and yourself have said that some matters relating to co-vid measures should be neutralized, such as supplementary pensions. Normally, they're neutralized in the pay gap. We can think about all these things. The current economy is very far from the average wage standard. Some sectors have been hit very hard, while others are thriving. In the latter case, I would find it unfair if the workers could not take advantage of the cake they cook together there. In the future, the calculation of the wage standard can be considered. The 1996 Law was not fully implemented in relation to the margin of security in the previous period. We can also ask questions. They're not on the agenda right now, but it's something to think about. The same applies to the inclusion of social security contributions in that calculation. We can certainly look into all these questions in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear your position as a minister and your duty of reserve during this negotiating period. Thank you for your clarity on the negotiating process. I will not fail to forward your answers to all the people who asked me about the file. At the end of the negotiations between the employer and the union bench, it is up to me that the government will have to decide on these essential issues. I hope, like you, that an agreement will be reached between the social partners. At that time, we will expect a lot from you and rely on you to make the synthesis in a balanced, strong and socially fair way. Will the standard be considered indicative or mandatory? That will be the question. In the meantime, I would have liked to hear from you on the question of setting up a solidarity fund to raise minimum wages. But if your duty as a reserve does not allow you to respond, I will not hesitate to return to you afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u31	Madam President, I am a little disappointed because the Minister does not want to answer two specific questions which I asked again, while I referred to the question put in writing in my first speech. If I add some water to the wine, it is to create some space, also for the Minister to answer the questions we ask. I would like to urge the Minister once again to clarify the two questions I asked in the only statement I have made here on the points on which the Minister says that there is no agreement yet. This also concerns the letters he is referring to and with which he wants to facilitate negotiations. They are now being presented to the social partners, but what is to be included in these letters? I'd like to know. If you say a, Minister, you must also have the courage to say b. You have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u32	Minister, would you like to react again?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u33	Madam President, I thought I had responded clearly, detailing the letter that the Prime Minister and I sent to the social partners. Moreover, some parliamentarians have bounced back from my answer. Under the government agreement, it is clear that the latter is prepared to make agreements concluded by the social partners enforceable through circulars. I have addressed certain aspects which, through these circulars, should be subtracted from the margin calculation: vaccination leave, telework agreement, etc. In addition, I have indicated that, through this letter, we have allowed the social partners to negotiate cyclical increases one shot in sectors that would have progressed despite or thanks to - because it is also a reality - the crisis. These were the three parts of this letter, co-signed by the Prime Minister and myself, which was then sent to the social partners. On the other hand, that's the same message I sent them yesterday. Let's be clear! I have balanced contacts with both sides, the employers and the workers. It always is. In any case, I look at my function in a balanced way, between the two benches, as I have been doing since the beginning. Each time, I received them fairly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u34	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with a quote from Damian Barr: 'In this corona crisis we are not all in the same boat, but we are all in the same storm. Some are in a yacht. Some get the wind in the sails, but some are really in a canoe and some are drowning. Then please let us remain human, friendly and help where we can." It is terrible not to be allowed to work or to see his company languishing, but also to offer safe work as an entrepreneur, but not always to know whether everything is done properly according to the protocols and regulations. They do their best, but they are often dealt with as criminals in an inspection. The aim of the government is to stimulate homework. What do we do, however, when the entrepreneur and the employees testify that working on the work floor in a firm is extremely safe? They won't be asked to do that. What do we do when it turns out that there was no transfer of the coronavirus in the company? What do we do when it turns out that the impact of homework is stressful for the employees and inefficient for the company with a cascade of side effects resulting? There is, on the one hand, the mental well-being of the employees, but, on the other hand, the late invoicing and payments, which means that there is too little cash flow to be able to pay wages correctly. As you know, the administrative tasks are the most marked. However, the administration in a company must be able to monitor efficiently the flow of the goods and services sold. Too big a discrepancy in time between the two is really nasty. An administration can sometimes do the work from home, but often it can only do it if there is twice as much time. There's no time. Practically and financially, it is often very difficult for companies to set up all the people at home efficiently. The measures are clear. Entrepreneurs have to impose homework, but this often happens against the preference of the staff, who convincingly indicate that they work much better on the company and feel much safer than at home. This sometimes creates an unpleasant relationship between entrepreneur and employee, leading to demotivated staff and even staff resigning, while there is no longer any contact between employer and employee to even feel that. Minister, how will the inspection list be drawn up? Is there a complaint first or is the list drawn up haphazardly? I also have unpleasant stories about inspections without lack of humanity or understanding. Are there any complaints about arbitrariness? Safety inspections may have a different way of working than social inspections, which may have been used now. How can inspection services assess companies' feasibility of homework, depending on the degree of digitalisation of their flow? What objective criteria are used? We cannot imagine what a company needs to do in order to decorate digitally at a rapid rate. Digitisation often takes place over a longer period of time. Where do entrepreneurs find support and tips? Are they sufficiently well known? Is there any need for a campaign to help them? Are the sanctions sufficiently known? What fines or penalties are applied? Is there any arbitrariness there too? When will they receive a warning, when will it become a fine and when will they be brought before the courts? I look forward to your answer because I have been waiting for these questions for over a month.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u35	Minister, teleworking policy remains a difficult issue. In recent weeks, we have had a very clear call from the GEMS, as several indicators indicate that telework is no longer being properly implemented, although there are controls. This is still seen as one of the most powerful instruments for managing the crisis. However, the checks show that the number of infringements is increasing. At the beginning of January, 20 per cent of the checks detected infringements and 30 per cent at the end of January. The flash checks relate to 16 % of infringements. On the other hand, the framework of mental well-being is not insignificant either. This aspect will be dealt with in several other questions in this committee. There is clearly a need for a perspective to get back to work. Last year we agreed at some point that we could go back to work a few days ago. For certain functions there was again more possible. On Friday, the government adopted a clear position within the framework of the Consultative Committee: in the short term, the system will be maintained as it is now. I know that temporary collective agreements have been concluded in the context of teleworking and teleworking can be a continuation of many sectors in different forms. I hope that this will also apply to Parliament, of course, in very specific situations. Minister, how do you proceed with this, knowing what is going on here? What roadmap can we expect in the coming period?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u36	Minister, I have a similar question. The GEMS states that teleworking is one of the most powerful measures to help reduce the corona virus. We note that this measure is not being complied with as it should be, despite the telework obligation. Mrs Muylle has just referred to the figures. It is about 20 % at the beginning of January and 30% at the end of January. Also in February flash checks were used to check telework. What are the results, both of the flash checks and of the other checks? I would also like to draw attention to mental well-being. I saw yesterday in The Journal that people are having a virtual coffee break, in order to hold on to the connection between colleagues. That's important, too. The decision of the Friday Consultation Committee was clear. We must continue to use this telework obligation, because we cannot at the same time relax all the measures and this is just a powerful measure. Will you take any initiatives to further focus on mental well-being? I have also received signals from companies that have had the inspection on the floor. They don't really know what to do anymore or how to adjust to be okay with the rules. That's that side of the story. I was wondering if you were getting similar signals. How is it handled, so that it is clear to companies how they have to comply with this telework obligation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u37	Mr Minister, I have no doubt, as Mr Muylle says, that telework is a keeper, but under certain circumstances. Of course, it has its limits. The GEMS may say that teleworking is one of the most powerful measures to reduce the corona pandemic, but of course a price is paid for it. That is also a bit the cry of a number of managers of large companies. They are pulling the alarm bell with regard to that mandatory telework. After all, it is found that the mental well-being of many workers is under pressure. Many say that they miss the connection, the connection with the company and their colleagues, that they feel less committed, that it is harder to get creative, to develop innovation, when everyone is on their physical island, where Zoom and Teams do not offer sufficient solace. It is therefore logical and high time to question a number of things. First of all, was it effectively investigated whether the workplace is causing a great deal of contamination? If so, how great is the danger? What is the scientific evidence for that? Secondly, can you give employers and employees any perspective on the deadline for this compulsory telework? Not only is management under pressure on a number of points, but also, and above all, the mental well-being of very many employees. That price is likely to be very high if we do not act quickly and adjust a number of things. What opportunities do you see in the short term to further support the well-being of employers and employees? In the margins of the debate on teleworking, I have also tabled a second oral question on the mobility budget. I will be very brief about that. The mobility budget is actually being used in an inadequate and rather one-sided way. Is there any possibility of using the mobility budget to compensate employees for their homework? Is that being used yet? Do you see any other possibilities within the mobility budget system as compensation for homework expenses? Mrs De Jonge indicated that the organisation of telework does not always run smoothly. Perhaps the mobility budget can also offer some relief there. More generally, what other possibilities do you see?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u38	Mrs Cornet is asking for an intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u39	Minister, in addition to all these questions that allow us to have a topical debate, I wanted to draw your attention to a report by the National Bank, which points out that women are more teleworking than men. In addition to what teleworking can mean as a gain in quality of life, this could also, according to the National Bank, increase an imbalance when tasks are shared. I am thinking of household chores where in general women are more involved than men, even when they work in a job comparable to that of their partner. Another risk associated with teleworking is the fact that, in companies, women could be perceived as less invested in their work. This is something that I often have on the ground. Women are at risk of being the first on the list of laid-off persons because they have contributed less to networking and have been more on telework. Such a situation has implications for their career, salary and career path. On the occasion of the release of this report on equal pay for men and women, which identifies not only an hourly wage difference - but also an average difference linked rather to trajectories and types of employment - which exceeds 20% in Belgium, I find it essential to include a gendered reading in health measures, knowing that women have been more affected by the risks of poverty but also by telework. It is therefore important to include a gender reading in the analysis of telework.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your various questions on this important issue of telework. As regards the questions on the number of checks, the social inspection services carried out their own checks, common controls and flash checks on compliance with the corona prevention measures in February 2021. During the individual checks, they checked a total of 6,901 employers, 35,508 employees and 120 self-employed persons. In this context, 1.937 warnings were given, 72 employers were given a time limit for regularisation, 18 companies were closed down and 66 projusti's were issued. As part of the joint checks, 1,043 employers, 776 self-employed and 4,766 employees were checked. 825 warnings were issued and 50 projustitia were issued for non-compliance with the coronaprevention measures. 602 checks were carried out on employers as part of the national flash checks on telework. 148 employers were found to be in breach of compulsory telework. 132 warnings were given and 7 pro-justitia were drawn up. With regard to questions about future telework controls, the flash checks have now stopped, but control efforts are continuing. The social inspectors have the task of systematically verifying compliance with the obligation to telework at each inspection. The checks will therefore be continued as far as possible. Very much has already been checked. Since 17 December, separate figures have been kept on telework controls. A total of 12.192 employers were checked at individual and common controls. Of these, 2.344 employers are in violation. The figure is 19.2 %. From now on, the social inspection services will immediately carry out individual and common checks on compliance with the prevention measures, including the obligation to telework. The social inspectors shall check whether a company has obtained advice on telework at the workplace prevention and protection services, whether the social dialogue has taken place and whether the content of the advice and social consultation is being respected. Since its introduction, on 2 November 2020, only one complaint has been lodged regarding the action of the inspection. The complaint was examined and found to be unfounded. Someone asked about the criteria used for checking telework. Organising telework wherever possible is a legal obligation, even if the work is organised in such a way as to comply with other measures, social discrimination etc. It's not a free choice. The telework obligation is an integral part of the whole of prevention measures. It prevails over all other measures because it eliminates any risk of infection at work. Infringements of compliance with the corona measures shall be sanctioned by a level 2 sanction. This corresponds to a criminal fine of 50 to 400 euros, to be increased with the opdecimals. This amounts to a multiplication by a factor 8. Where the employment officer decides not to bring criminal proceedings, an administrative fine may be imposed. The fine varies between 25 and 250 euros. On the questions relating to the easing of telework, I can tell you that this is not the case today. There are no exact figures on the number of infections at work, but the work is, after the home environment, in second place as a location where people think they have been infected. This is demonstrated both by the data from the contact search and by the results of research carried out by universities. Moreover, workers often come into contact not only with others at work, but also during commuting, for example, and especially when they are using public transport. The decision to relax the measures of prevention corona is taken by the Consultation Committee, in particular on the basis of the opinions of the experts. This also applies to mandatory telework. As some of you mentioned, GEMS reiterated in its February 2 opinion that telework was one of the most powerful measures to control the pandemic. In the present circumstances, it is therefore appropriate to maintain this obligation. However, like you, I am neither blind nor deaf, and I can only see that more and more workers complain, after long periods of telework, that some have been working at home for a year now. Some employers' federations, including the Voka, also want to put an end to mandatory telework. Moreover, every morning, by listening to traffic information, it can be said that compulsory telework is no longer strictly respected. That is why I am considering proposing the following balance to the government. Telework controls will be maintained and strengthened by even more inspectors. Controls will be facilitated in the field through the implementation of a new application developed with the ONSS through which each employer will have to communicate to the ONSS the maximum number of workers present on the site. The aim will be to give the number of workers who do not perform a function that is suitable for telework. In order to take account of the ill-being of certain workers who have been on telework for too long, the employer will be able to communicate, via the same application, the number of workers who perform teleworkable functions but who come to their place of work. I believe that, in addition to tighter controls and a reminder of the obligation, a number of people must also be allowed to come to the office one day a week, in any case in the short term. Many of you have pointed out that this is true of their mental and even physical health, as well as the relationship with the company, the employer and colleagues. This application should allow the inspection to see directly whether or not offences are committed. Inspectors will be aware of the number of workers admitted to the workplace each day and will therefore be able, upon entering the undertaking, to ascertain immediately whether this maximum number is respected or not. This brings me to the answers to the important questions of worker welfare and business support. I fully share your concerns about mental well-being in telework. Research shows that problems of well-being at work can increase if telework is performed more than two or three days a week. These include psychosocial risks, musculoskeletal disorders and the removal of the boundaries between work and privacy. The benefits of teleworking are particularly important if workers can combine telework and face-to-face. In order to answer Mrs Cornet's question, I think it will also be necessary to consider the evaluation of teleworking arrangements with regard to equality between men and women. In terms of information, awareness and inspiration for companies and workers, various actors have already made a series of important efforts. For example, the CPS has provided advice and recommendations and has developed tools to help businesses organize telework. In March, the SPF organized two free webinars, which attracted a lot of interest. It discussed the legislative framework and good practices for improving the working conditions of teleworkers. Social inspection services have also made great efforts to guide and support employers. External prevention services, for their part, offer a wide range of tools to prevent and address risks to the well-being of telework. The social partners have also recently concluded a collective labour agreement, the CLC 149, on recommended or compulsory telework in relation to the coronavirus crisis in addition to the CLC 85 on regular telework. In addition, the generic guide produced in collaboration with the social partners contains a number of recommendations related to telework. Finally, the Welfare Act provides for the use of trusted counsellors and/or prevention counsellors to support teleworkers. Mr Anseuw, as far as your question on the mobility budget is concerned, teleworking is not in itself qualified as a sustainable means of transport or equivalent. Consequently, teleworking costs cannot be included in the mobility budget. The purchase of equipment is therefore not eligible either. Electricity, gas and water costs cannot be included in the mobility budget either. Where the place of residence of an employee is within a 5 km radius of the normal place of employment, he or she may charge for certain housing costs in the case of telework for his or her mobility budget. In assessing the normal place of employment, account must of course be taken of the worker's telework. If the place of telework or satellite work can be regarded as the normal place of employment, the employee may charge rents and interest on a mortgage loan on his mobility budget. That scheme can also be applied for structural or temporary homework after the pandemic. Consideration could be given to link teleworking with sustainable transport. It could also be considered whether it would be possible to extend the scheme on accommodation costs and to align it with the scheme on sustainable means of transport. This suggestion can be taken into account by the social partners in an overall assessment of telework regulation. I urge them to carry out the overall evaluation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u41	Unfortunately, Minister, I did not hear how the financial picture could be resolved. How can the administrative work, which is best suited to homework tasks, be linked to the operational flow of the company? It is also impossible to recruit workers to work at home, as it is difficult to employ additional staff suddenly on billing and wage calculation. One cannot recruit remotely to then train someone to work at home. There is still a big gap in that respect. Nor do I understand why the inspection cannot simply ask the workers whether they feel safe on the company and whether they can carry out the work at home as efficiently and safely as possible. The inspection now finds that the workers are present at the company and that they can also do the work they do at home. Whether this can be done efficiently or not, it obviously does not matter for the inspection, nor whether it is safe or unsafe. The workers have to go home. Moreover, entrepreneurs often do not dare to complain against the inspection. You say there's only one complaint, but it's unfounded. I think many entrepreneurs are saving themselves the trouble. In my view, the inspection can only be checked after a complaint from a staff member or if safety is compromised. I agree that the cowboys have to get out, but I am convinced that professional companies are really doing everything they can to make their employees work safely so that their functioning and efficiency are not undermined. Be sure of that. I hope my spirit helps.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your answer with the figures requested. Interestingly, you want to allow employers to have some of the workers who have to work telework return safely to the company, provided that that number is reported to the inspection services. This means that health measures can be maintained for a longer period of time and yet provide an answer to the problem of mental well-being. When would this arrangement enter into force? You talked about using an app or a login application. I hope that all this can be done administratively. If possible, I would like to have some more explanation about a time frame and about the administrative process.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The figures are almost always the same. There are not many changes to this. In any case, your proposal to improve compliance with telework obligations and to meet the challenge of safeguarding the employee's mental well-being and limiting the impact of telework on employees is interesting. When would you introduce your measure? Will you use an existing app for this? Or does it still need to be developed? Well, in that case, maybe he'll be late. It's definitely an interesting thought trail. No one, not even the GEMS, denies that teleworking is a powerful tool for dimming the virus, not even in scientific research. If we relax, we must do so gradually and not let go of everything at the same time. Your proposal may perhaps reconcile both requirements, namely, on the one hand, to use forceful measures, but, on the other hand, to take into account mental well-being. As far as the evaluation of telework is concerned, of course, the gender dimension is important. However, telework must also be assessed under the welfare law, which also applies to it. Too often I hear that workers in their kitchen work teleworking on taboos with tablets and not in the most optimal conditions. If telework is to be maintained, regardless of whether it is temporary telework or compulsory telework, we must pay particular attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u44	Minister, I will begin with the good news. I am particularly pleased that you take to heart my suggestions that the mobility budget should be more creative and that it should be possible to adapt that budget to what will be partly the new normal with telework and homework. The conditions in which teleworking is taking place today are not always the most ideal. In many cases, this is probably still understated. So I am very pleased that you take my suggestions to heart and get to work on them as quickly as possible. On the short-term perspective of teleworking, I have to admit that I am somewhat disappointed. I understand from your reply that the mandatory telework must be preserved at all costs. The cost is increasing, however, whatever employees indicate. You rightly indicate, on the basis of traffic information, that the mandatory telework is less and less respected. Then the conclusion should not be that we need to organise control better. In my view, the only logical conclusion is that it has become extremely difficult for a lot of workers and even impossible for a number of people to maintain that obligation strictly throughout the week, week after week, month after month. Telework weighs tremendously heavily on those workers. If, therefore, more workers actually do their job in the normal workplace, they do not do so because they want to wipe their feet off that obligation. On the contrary, it is precisely those workers who have made tremendous efforts over the last few months to comply with all the restrictions. However, it is now starting to weigh too heavily, to the extent that it exceeds their capacity. They then seek a solution and the most logical thing is that they get back to work at the normal workplace at least in part because of social contact and the maintenance of the connection with the company and the colleagues. After all, the work is an important part of their life story. We really shouldn't deal with that lightly. The one-sided approach to the corona crisis in recent months, which is to do everything possible to reduce the pandemic, demands an ever higher price in many areas of life. I also find this one-sidedness in an important part of your answer. You say that you are not deaf and blind to this problem, but you cannot offer a short-term perspective. The only perspective is better, more efficient control of a measure that many workers want to comply with, while they are no longer able to do so. My appeal is not to remain blind and deaf to it, to show humanity. After all, it is not a question of workers who are no longer interested in it, it is a question of workers who no longer find longer teleworking feasible. I therefore call for a less one-sided Corona approach, especially as regards the organisation of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u45	Minister, I thank you for your answers, although they lead me to express two great regrets about two major aspects of this problem, in any case the issue of telework. Firstly, with regard to clusters, you tell us that we do not have figures to determine the number of contaminations at the workplace. However, Sciensano had produced a report to say that 40% of the contamination would take place at the workplace, while knowing that travel to the workplace was a question and a time of risk. It is well known that mandatory teleworking is a key measure to break transmission chains, but for it to be respected, it must be truly and urgently based on clear and encrypted data. If we really want telework to be respected, we must also give ourselves the means to be able to properly justify this measure rather than to declare, on the assumption, that the risks of transmission will be reduced by seeing less often his colleagues and his employer. No! At some point, we need to have clear and encrypted data. On the other hand, I am happy to hear that the controls have increased, but the many figures you have cited do not allow us to obtain a breakdown by sector. However, it seems to me that such a breakdown will be interesting to take preventive, aid or sanction measures that would be truly tailored and well targeted to each of these sectors, since the reality of one sector is not that of another. If I say that, it is because, among the companies that do not respect telework, there are those that do not want but there are those that do not have the material or financial capacity. It is essential to be able to help them at their best. You also mentioned a new application that I think is interesting in principle and by which the employer will be able to communicate to the ONSS the number of employees who remain on the site or the number of employees who go there despite everything, even if they can telework, so as not to suffer the perverse effects of telework, including isolation. My colleague, Mrs Cornet, referred to the problem of women who have to combine telework and household chores at home. This application is certainly a good initiative, but if I understand correctly, it will depend on the goodwill of the employer. I therefore believe that this raises questions as to the practicality and effectiveness of this application. That's my last question. I referred to the text of my question earlier. Can you just tell us when this application would be available?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u46	Thank you, Minister. I mean, you're going to integrate the gender perspective into the evaluation of telework devices. It's a great thing. I also invite you to give impetus everywhere and whenever possible, so as to take into account, before the evaluation, the specific situations of each person, particularly those who have less technical possibilities at home to telework, but also the specific situation of women about whom I spoke earlier. As a result, it may be very interesting to collect generation data, notably through the application of the ONSS which allows the employer to report when a worker is in the workplace for reasons other than the need for work. Be careful, it must be integrated, whether it is the choice of the worker. It is a good opportunity to collect gender-disaggregated data, which is a good start to evaluate. I can of course only invite you to contact your colleague Sarah Schlitz for all these assessments and all these specific aspects. I thank you, in any case, for your attention to this kind of dimension.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u47	I would like to add a few elements to the application, Madam President. At the last consultation committee on Friday, the question of teleworking was raised, in relation to the need to extend the teleworking obligation on the basis, in particular, of the experts' opinion. But we also referred to the difficulties faced by workers who have long been in telework, and the involvement they may have in the life and functioning of our businesses, or in our public services. For this reason, I have been instructed by the Consultation Committee to work on this issue. I came a few days later with this proposal, together with the ONSS services, for the implementation of this application, which will allow companies to declare workers present at the workplace as well as to simplify and speed up the control possibilities for inspection services. It is a balance between the well-being of workers, the continuity of the operation of public enterprises or services, and the possibility of controlling a device that remains central in the fight against coronavirus. As far as statistics are concerned, I have mentioned some figures. Sciensano published some more this morning. To obtain a precise and recent figure, namely today's figure, according to the reports of the infected and contacted persons, 23% of the contamination occurred in the family environment and 8% in the workplace. This remains an important element. The workplace is the second place of potential contamination; hence the importance of maintaining this telework arrangement, but with the consideration of the well-being of workers, but also of the continuity of work in our businesses or in our public services. I think there is a real need to try to strike a balance between the two, to allow workers who are in need or envy to return to the workplace, and also to be able to guarantee faster, and perhaps more objective, controls, since they will be based on a declaration by employers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u48	Minister, the app may be a good tool, but I know companies where there is an Excel document on the Personnel Service, indicating which staff are present each month. This crisis has already created enough additional administrative burdens and has already required a great deal of work. I think that Excel document is doing a perfect job and it's clear to everyone. I really hope this isn't an app that every staff member has to re-enter every day. It would be a disaster for large companies if they needed someone for half a day to fill that out. I am very pleased with Mrs Rohonyi's approach. I am from West Flanders and know that many people there go to work by car and that there are not often traffic jams there. However, I am aware of very few companies where infections have increased in the workplace. That may have been the case in the first wave, when Corona was not yet known, but in the second wave I hear from all business owners that the infections have occurred in family circles. The employees come to the company and report it and are sent home again. After all, an entrepreneur does not want to make his staff sick. He'll do anything for that. I can imagine that people were infected during the journey to work, for example by bus or by train. We've all seen the footage of full buses with school children. At work people are much safer than shopping in the supermarket. I would like to call on you to weaken the Gestapaniers and keep it positive. Let us stay human and help where we can.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u49	Mr Minister, when I asked you what the obvious evidence is that the workplace is causing a great deal of contamination, you replied that there are no precise figures for this. You now give the figure of 8 % that Sciensano announced this morning. That is the only so-called objective argument to maintain an obligation that more and more people are less and less able to comply with. It's not like you don't want to, but you can't. I'd like to plead once again for more humanity. After all, life is much more than just not dying. Life is much more. I therefore believe that we really need to pay attention to this in the Corona approach. The corona pandemic broke out a year ago and it took long enough, far too long in my opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u50	Minister, the unique protection system of our port workers, the Major Act, has a long history, including a history of opponents. Those opponents, both in our country and in Europe, regularly write a new chapter in their fight against this law. On 11 February there was a new chapter containing the ruling of the European Court of Justice of Luxembourg in response to questions referred for a preliminary ruling. On that day, 11 February, I asked you a number of questions in plenary. Back then, the answer was still easy. The government had yet to examine the judgment in detail and discuss it with the social partners. It takes a long time for oral questions to be put in committee. My question is today a month old. There has therefore been more time to investigate a number of issues further. Are the elements which are contrary to the European directives relating to the recruitment procedure? It was said that they may be in breach of the European directive on the free movement of workers and the right of establishment. This ruling may affect the way in which port workers are recruited and it may further open the door to social dumping. What steps will be taken to deal with the consequences of this ruling? How can we safeguard the unique protection system of the Major Act in the future of further erosion? What additional measures can we take to combat social dumping in our ports?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u51	Madam President, Minister, the Court of Justice ruled on 11 February 2021 on the Major Act, as mentioned earlier. As expected, the Court had no difficulty with the conditions of security and training to pursue the occupation of port worker. Such rules on training and knowledge of safety rules can also be found in various other professions or tasks. However, the Court had fundamental objections to the finding that a joint committee would be the only party to rule on what port work is and, above all, on who may or may not carry out that work. These rules restrict the free movement of services but also of workers. My questions in this connection are as follows. Firstly, are you prepared to amend the Major Act on the basis of the ruling of the Court of Justice? Secondly, if so, by when will you do so? In what way do you intend to do that? Will you draw up your own proposal and test it before the European Commission? Thirdly, will you seek inspiration from countries that do operate in accordance with EU rules in terms of the organisation of port work and at the same time provide good safety figures? Fourthly, if you do not intend to do so, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u52	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the previous speakers have outlined the issue well. Mr Minister, during the previous debate in committee, which took place very recently, on 11 February 2021, you indicated that there was time to look into this. We have all seen the ruling of the European Court of Justice. How do you proceed with that? What is the impact on the law and on the agreement that your predecessor, Kris Peeters, negotiated with the various parties? What should be corrected in this respect? Do you intend to do so, or will you wait and see what you say about it? There are two further questions before the Council of State and the Constitutional Court. Are you waiting for these appointments to be made further in the procedure or will you take proactive steps in this respect? I suspect that you are also organising social consultations on this subject, knowing that the agreement was then made in 2016 after a very intense and long period between the social partners. Can you give us an update?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you all for the attention you have given to this dossier. The port workers and their employers lead huge flows of goods in good jobs and are very important for our economy. The safety of workers is paramount. That is also recognised by the Court of Justice. I already had the opportunity to speak briefly on this dossier in plenary. The first finding immediately after the judgment was that the Major Act remained in force. The Court does, however, have a number of questions concerning the practical arrangements for the recognition of port workers. This isn't about the law, it's about the royal decree. As I said earlier, this is not a conviction, but a procedure following questions for a preliminary ruling. Following the judgment of the Court, national courts shall act. The Constitutional Court and the Council of State will make the final, concrete assessment. This also means that the dock workers who have been recognised today can continue to work. Of course, we are preparing. It is important that we proactively analyse the impact of the judgment on the organisation of port labour. We need to assess how the national courts will assess the situation in order to anticipate this. At the same time, the Belgian State will continue to prepare its defence of the file before the national courts. In the meantime, we are holding consultations with the social partners. A first consultation has already taken place. The joint analysis of the judgment will continue in the coming weeks. I will not make any major statements about this in order to give the consultation every opportunity. It is important to ensure that we do not lose sight of the benefits of flexible and well-trained workers, as do the associated social protection and security for those workers. This ensures that Belgian port labour is one of the most productive known. Moreover, social peace is maintained here more than in other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u54	Thank you for your reply, Minister. Our dock workers work not only safely but also efficiently. That's very important. I realise that it is now up to the Constitutional Court and the Council of State to decide on this. I look forward to the in-depth analysis you are undertaking together with the social partners of this judgment. When do we get to look at this? That deadline would please us. I quote you when I say that over the past 50 years, the Major Act has provided safe and effective ports. I hope that we can continue to work in the same way over the next 50 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u55	Minister, it is simply too absurd to hear how the decision was made. The judges have been judged on the basis of liberal advice, of liberal lawyers, in accordance with liberal rules. It can't be any worse, because they haven't even bothered to hear the dock workers and the unions about this. The Belgian law on port work, better known as the Major Act, is not contrary to European law, at least as long as it aims to ensure safety in port areas and prevent accidents at work. One cannot simply get the status of a port worker, one has to meet all the requirements. For the European Court, the recognition procedure is contrary to European law with regard to the free movement of establishment and the free movement of services. Let it be clear that this is not a reason for us to calm down now. The venom just caught him in the tail. The status of the port worker does not go on the shovel, but they want to make it an empty box, the empty box Major. Recognition is in danger of becoming a hollowed-out story. If I hear correctly, we are moving towards a Rotterdam model of fragmentation in which social protection is undermined through quotaing and the polish system. The interim agencies are already in pole position ready to take over. That's really not where we want to go.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. No one will contradict the fact that we have very effective and very safe ports. It must be the intention to keep it that way. The use of flexible and skilled work is extremely important. Belgium has not been convicted. This is an answer to a question for a preliminary ruling, but you have said that Belgium is preparing its distribution. When Belgium has to do so before the national court, I would be interested to know what attitude you will adopt in your defence. That is the crux of the matter. If you would like to give me another hint of the veil, I would appreciate it very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u57	Nice try from colleague Anseuw. Of course, I am also curious about the tip of the veil, but I understand that you will await the proceedings before the national court. That makes sense, too. When preparing the application within a judicial procedure, it is not appropriate to disclose the position to be taken within that defence. We are curious as to which direction you are going to take, but I feel that you will not tell us today, no matter how noble the attempts of Members of this House may be. I'm sure we'll come back to it here. I would just like to ask whether a timing can be given and when you expect the procedure to be over and when a ruling can be expected. In this way we can proceed with this dossier, not only within the government but also in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u58	Minister, I understand that you wish to await the proceedings before the national court. You say the Major Act stands. That's right, and thank God. However, I believe that there are a number of safeguards in the recognition procedure that is being called into question at European level. Not least in the field of training, which just ensures that port workers can work in safe conditions and are also productive. Together with you, I look forward to the analysis of the social partners and the direction they will take. We therefore share the same wish, as with the social partners, that we should not leave our port workers to social dumping and that we should be able to maintain their social protection and safe working conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. It is indeed a good thing that an analysis has been carried out and that consultations have been held with the social partners. There really needs to be a solution to bring the Major Act into line with the findings of the European Court of Justice. It is a good thing that steps have been taken. Like Mrs Muylle, I also wonder if there can be any timing on it, so that we quickly know where we stand with this law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u60	Minister, I believe you have been asked a question about timing. Would you like to react or can I close the debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u61	Madam President, I can confirm that discussions with the social partners will continue. As for the question of the agenda of the Constitutional Court or the Council of State, it goes beyond my meagre powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u62	I very much appreciate Mrs Muylle's praise for my efforts to ask an additional question. I think that her attempt to dismiss the Minister from his moral obligation to try to answer that is at least equally commendable, but one has to make the distinction, Mrs Muylle, Minister, you have conveniently failed to answer my supplementary question between how to defend the defence and what will be defended. I do not need to know how you are going to defend yourself today, because moving the band head-on into the forest is rarely a productive way of working, but one can already tell the world what will be defended, which is of course a different story, and that is the question I have asked. So, Minister, I am not trying to tempt you to tell the world how you will defend yourself even before you have started, but I would like to know what will be defended.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u63	Minister, there are two aspects on the pay gap which I would like to put to the House. A first aspect is the acceleration that the European Commission announced last week. She says that the pay gap is still too large in too many countries. Belgium is one of the better students in the classroom, but there is also a problem here. The reason the European Commission cites is a lack of wage transparency. The European Commission wants to do something about this. The European Commission says that workers are entitled to information and that they should be able to compare their wages with the average wage in the company, also broken down by gender, by groups. One should be able to request this. This can be done through social dialogue, for example, through the trade unions. Anyone who applies must also be given information about the wage margin. This would be about large companies, starting with 250 employees. These data must be published every year and when the pay gap is greater than 5%, they must also do something about it effectively. These are the plans of the European Commission. Now I want to know what you're up against. What does this mean for Belgium? What does this mean for Belgian legislation, even though we in the European Union are among the better students of the class? A second aspect is the Belgian figures. I always find it incredibly difficult in this debate when I see other figures on the social media. One speaks of 9.2 %, the other speaks of 6 %. Then another 20 % is quoted. All this has to do with other target groups, which have different figures. Statbel only works for a full-time adjusted wage gap in companies with more than ten employees. I believe that the Institute for Equality between Women and Men gives a more accurate picture, 9.2 %. There we look at all sectors, also corrected. As our colleague has rightly pointed out, Belgium's 2021 figures show a striking precarity for women working for low wages today, often in part-time jobs. For the lowest wages there is a corrected wage gap of 20.3%, and even of more than 40% if the part-time statutes are included. This is about wages of 15,000 euros gross per year. It is said that the situation is even more acute. The report for 2021 shall be made on the basis of the figures for 2018. This means that the figures are three to four years behind each other. We feel it, and the report says so too, that the gap in that category has become even greater. I would now like to know what this means in concrete terms for your policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u64	Minister, apparently I am the only man here asking a question about the pay gap. I'm sure this is a man's business, too. The gender pay gap in Belgium is still large. The Institute for Equality between Women and Men indicates that the wage gap is currently 9.2%. There are, of course, differences between functions and by sector. My colleagues have already outlined this situation sufficiently. I shall now turn to my questions, Minister. What conclusions do you draw from the figures on the pay gap? What measures do you intend to take to address the pay gap? What efforts are employers already making today to meet this? In which functions and sectors, both private and public, is the pay gap greatest?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u65	Madam President, the day after 8 March, International Women's Rights Day, it is essential to be able to return to a week full of news regarding the fight against the wage gap. On 4 March, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men published its report on the wage gap. As you know, this report is being prepared jointly with the Federal Public Service Employment. This edition of 2021 contains an expanded report covering all indicators of the wage gap, such as occupation, employment sector, type of contract, working hours, Region of employment, level of education, seniority, age, marital status, household composition and nationality. On the same day, the European Commission published its proposal for a directive to strengthen equal pay for women and men. The proposal sets out measures on the transparency of remuneration, such as information on remuneration for job seekers, the right to know the level of remuneration of workers performing the same work and the obligations for large companies to provide information on the wage gap. The proposal also strengthens the tools for workers to assert their rights and facilitates access to justice. I am pleased that the European Commission has finally presented a proposal for a text emphasising the transparency of salaries. I immediately asked my services to carry out an extensive impact analysis. European legislative work has only just begun, but this instrument makes it possible to identify certain broad lines of action on the pay gap. After all, the coalition agreement aims at an active policy on equality between men and women. The government wants to proactively tackle structural and historical imbalances. Monitoring will be strengthened. In concrete terms, in parallel with the European process, we wish, together with my colleague Sarah Schlitz, to improve the 2012 law on the wage gap. This will be a joint effort with the social partners, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and the SPF Employment. The wage gap is more than 20%. I would like to point out that according to the Institute's latest report, the wage gap adjusted for working hours is 9.2%. The wage gap not adjusted for average working hours is 23.1%. This second figure takes more account of the effect of women's part-time work. For international comparisons, the wage structure survey is used as a source as it is carried out in all Member States and the results are harmonised by Eurostat. On the basis of these figures, Belgium has a wage gap of 6%, which is well below the European average of 14.8%. Only three other countries have a lower pay gap than Belgium. The report on the wage gap in Belgium also highlights a certain precarisation of jobs at the bottom of the labour market. Within this group, women who combine part-time and low pay are even more vulnerable than others. For example, the wage gap between men and women employed in the private sector is 20.3 per cent when corrected by working hours and 43 per cent if not corrected. My figures are the same as those set out earlier by Mrs Muylle. It is important to note that the report just published focuses on 2018 figures and therefore does not reflect the impact of the crisis on these remunerations and on this gap. Even in the absence of major wage developments, sudden changes in employment will certainly have an impact on the wage gap figure. Mr Anseuw, with regard to sectoral differences, the largest wage gap is found in the air transport sector, in particular almost 31%. It follows the production and distribution of gas and electricity, the manufacture of computers, electronic and optical products, the clothing industry and travel agencies. For these sectors, wage differentials ranged between 27 % and 20 % in 2018. It should also be noted that the report provides a general picture of compensation and also targets public service workers. The wage gap in Belgium is 9.2% across all sectors. In the private sector, it is 12.7%, while in the public sector it is 5.2%. Without correction for working hours, the wage gap in our country is 23.1 per cent - 27.9 per cent in the private sector and 16.3 per cent in the public sector. Finally, the report also highlights the issue of additional benefits such as company cars or mobile phones. In principle, they are part of the salary, but they have not been included in the structure and pay distribution survey and are generally not included in the ONSS data either. Some studies show that some benefits are granted more often to men than to women. On the basis of tax data, some gender differences can be highlighted. These include reimbursement of journeys from home to work, contributions for supplementary pensions and share options that employees have indicated in their tax returns. As reflected in the government agreement, one of our objectives is to continue the fight against the wage gap, in particular by improving the effectiveness of the legislation in force. Several work has already been undertaken, notably as a result of various parliamentary initiatives. Thus, on 18 February 2020, the National Labour Council issued Opinion 2156 in which it undertook to continue work in the fight against the wage gap, ensuring consistency with European initiatives. The new proposal for a directive thus suggests several tools to improve the transparency of wages. In this regard, Belgium can already welcome the fairly widespread use of detailed functional classifications. One part of the 2012 Act was intended to address the wage gap by controlling these classifications with a view to making them sexually neutral. In addition, the Employment FPS was commissioned to comb them fine. Since the introduction of these measures, we have found that most Joint Committees with a gender-neutral classification of functions have submitted a new one in the meantime. It can therefore be said that Belgium already has good rules on the transparency of the minimum wage set. However, there is a lack of transparency as to the actual wages paid. As the Commission points out in its proposal for a directive, a certain degree of transparency is needed in order to combat the pay gap. The text provides for a right to information for workers so that they can assert their right to equal pay. The other part of the 2012 law, which concerns the analysis report on the structure of workers' remuneration, can be cited here as a good practice in Belgian law. Nevertheless, this tool, which has the merit of existence, has some weaknesses highlighted by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men as well as by the National Labour Council. Mrs Willaert, of course we will take these different opinions into account when I take action together with the Secretary of State for Gender Equality. On the other hand, one cannot speak of the wage gap without addressing the reconciliation between family and working life. We mentioned this a few moments ago in the telework debate. Indeed, the figures show how much part-time work affects women's careers. According to the Institute, the combination of work and private life is the main reason for part-time work for 45% of women working part-time, compared with only 28% for men. As you know, the government has set itself the goal of reforming parental leave to allow for a more balanced distribution of care and childcare between men and women. That is why, upon taking up my duties, I ensured that the birth leave gradually increased from 10 to 20 days, so that fathers and co-parents could get involved with the mother as soon as their child arrived in the family. Improvements in family leave are also being made in the context of the transposition of the Work-Life Balance Directive. As you know, this directive aims to achieve greater equality between women and men in the labour market by enabling workers with family responsibilities to reconcile work and private life more easily. In order to achieve this objective, the Directive sets European minimums for birth leave, parental leave, caregiver's leave and leave for compelling reasons. It also recognizes the right of workers to request flexible work arrangements. Finally, the Directive provides for a legal framework to guarantee the exercise of these rights by the worker. My administration is currently working on the transposition of this directive. Again, this subject closely related to gender equality, the work is done in perfect cooperation with my colleague, Secretary of State Sarah Schlitz.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u66	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. You have repeated and clarified a lot of things. It is important to put very concrete proposals on the table now. This is a very complex discussion. That has a lot of things to do with it. For example, you have referred to sectors. Aviation is particularly present in the figures because pilots weigh very heavily in the pay mass of the sector, and today this is mainly a male profession compared to the other professions in the sector. So those figures need to be a little nuanced. I am pleased to hear you say that the European Commission's proposal on wage transparency in the context of wages actually paid will certainly mean something. Other countries have a much more open culture on this, but in Belgium it remains not done to say how much money is made. I've met some people who said that when women change companies they negotiate very badly about wages. This may be less important, but one has no idea what the wages of colleagues are and how much one can ask, how far one can go. It's a good thing we're getting an adjustment there. However, I remain concerned about the category of women with low wages and part-time contracts, especially because I believe that they are often not included in the figures in the context of the corona crisis because they are often about larger companies with ten or more employees. The pay gap is very large there today and it should be a priority for this government to do something about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u67	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. The remuneration gap law of 2012 consists of two parts. One part has to do with greater transparency, the other with what we do when we find that there are differences. In my view, these are two yards where there is still work to be done to make this law more effective, both in terms of transparency, where we are doing fairly well, but where we still have to take steps, and in terms of transparency. There must also be effective action in this regard. Publishing is, of course, not enough; it is important that steps are taken, that the social partners can monitor this and that it can be mediated. I'll also take what you say about the extra-legal benefits. If we still take into account the difference in this respect, we have a worse story. That is also an important shipyard. The same applies to their exposure. There must be sufficient data on these extra-legal benefits. We must also look at how we can deal with this. Finally, I would also like to reiterate Mr Muylle's plea in relation to the precarious groups. The report by the National Bank, which shows that corona ensures the pre-carisation of women in the labour market, was already discussed this afternoon. My colleague, Mr Cornet, has already referred to it in detail. Minister, I would really like to urge you to monitor closely with us what is happening in the labour market and where we need to intervene. That's very important. That will not only be a story of more equality at home, it also has to do with general precarisation. These are sectors where contracts are more difficult and so on. It's a very complex story. I'd like to press your heart to monitor that closely. We must all keep a close eye on this together. We really need to do what is necessary to achieve greater equality and greater employment opportunities for these women.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u68	Madam President, Minister, it is good that you ensure the necessary transparency in this matter. If the working time is taken into account and a correction is applied to the wage gap, it is 9,2%, without that correction, of 23,1 %. A lot of women work part-time. This is, of course, extremely important for the large difference in the pay gap with and without the adjustment of working hours. If we add to that the fact of family dilution that continues to persevere in our society, this will only increase the number of vulnerable women in our society if the pay gap is not addressed. Since the checkout has to be paid with money and not with percentage, I hope that 9.2 %, the adjusted pay gap, is not an excuse to put the 23.1 % into perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u69	Minister, yesterday was International Women's Day indeed. On March 25th it is Equal Pay Day. At the current rate we still have to take action until 2067 to get the Equal Pay Day on 1 January. I am therefore pleased that the European Commission is making a move and that you are taking it with you at national level. I welcome the fact that the European initiative is being taken into account in the debate between the social partners and that, in terms of pay transparency, wages actually paid are being considered. This is mainly about the additional benefits that are already different. It is very important that we not only strive for transparency in this area, but also look at how we will proceed. I myself have tabled a bill on the pension split on supplementary pensions, which is more remedial than preventive. That is one of the options for achieving greater equality in this area. I would like to mention two other elements. Research by the KUL shows that the proportion of part-time work in Belgium is quite high among women, including highly skilled women. It is important to include this element in the discussion between the social partners. Of course, a reform of leave systems can provide a partial answer to this, but it is also important to consult with the regions on this, because I believe that it is not only because it is more complex than the waiting lists for access to childcare and for a disability institution. Improvements in services in this area can ensure that women can better reconcile their work with their families and not always be forced to work less. I also agree with the question of precarisation. Some people can't get a full-time job. These are often the people who work for the lowest wages. We must also pay particular attention to this, especially to the impact of corona on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u70	Minister, you clearly have good intentions, but what you are proposing is not enough. As I said to you last Thursday in Question Time in plenary, there can be no gender equality as long as there is no socio-economic equality between men and women. This is why women's sectors and professions are urgently needed to upgrade with more full-time jobs, better working conditions, full and secure statutes and, above all, higher wages. We are going for nothing less than a gross minimum wage of 12 euros per hour. Many professions and sectors in which women are over-represented have proved essential in the current crisis. It is therefore time to really value them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u71	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is good that the guidelines are laid down. It is also a good thing that action has already been taken. After all, we must not forget that the pay gap also continues with the pension. The Institute for Equality between Women and Men has given a clear signal, as has just been said. Belgium is certainly not doing so badly compared to the European average, but if the adjustment for working time is not taken into account, then we can see that this is going to be higher. It is clear that there is work to be done in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u72	Minister, thank you for your answers. I draw a lot of figures, a lot of findings, but also a lot less concrete measures, especially with regard to the revalorisation of sectors where women are over-represented. With respect to the 2012 Act, I understand that there is an ongoing evaluation work. That's a very good thing. I imagine it is a long-term job, but I would like to stress the urgency of this work because, as Mrs Schlitz had the opportunity to say yesterday morning, at this rate, the wage gap can only be reduced by 2066. It is true that our country today is well ranked in relation to the European average, but I think that we cannot be satisfied with it, especially when you mention figures of up to 43% for some workers. It's just unbearable! With regard to the proposal for a European directive on the transparency of remuneration, I am really looking forward to seeing what will be the means chosen by your Government to meet the objectives of this directive. In this connection, I would like to suggest that the report to be submitted by a company on its remuneration policy, and hence gender neutrality, should be transmitted automatically to the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. One might imagine that, depending on his assessment, the Institute would issue a label certifying a certain pay equity. This would be based on a certification mechanism set up in Iceland and bearing its fruit. It would be interesting to encourage good behaviour because that would eventually change attitudes. Finally, I would also like to draw your attention to the need to ensure transparency of remuneration, but also of promotions. This is known to be one of the major obstacles to full pay equality between women and men, either because promotions are not given to women or because women do not dare to apply for them. There is really a lot of work that could be done in consultation with the Institute for Gender Equality in order to identify possible solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u73	This concludes our current debate on the wage gap. We now turn to the classic questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u74	The European Commission has provided Belgium with a second tranche of EUR 2 billion to finance temporary unemployment schemes. Belgium could thus borrow a total of EUR 7.8 billion. The appropriations for this are financed through social bonds. Will we borrow the full amount of EUR 7.8 billion with Belgium or can the total amount borrowed still be adjusted according to the level of possible future costs of temporary unemployment? What was the first disc used for and what will the second disk and any subsequent disks be used for? Is the amount intended solely for temporary unemployment benefits themselves or can this amount also be partly used for framework measures? In 2020, the system of temporary unemployment cost the government about EUR 4.3 billion. The amount of EUR 7.8 billion is much higher. On what basis was the estimated amount of EUR 7.8 billion? What period should be covered by that amount? How big is the financial benefit of the loan? In other words, if the loan had not existed as part of a European aid measure and would still be borrowed by the public authorities to cover the costs, what would the additional financial costs have been to derive that amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u75	The European financial instrument SURE is intended to provide temporary support to Member States in the context of the corona crisis to reduce the risks of unemployment. The funds are raised by the European Commission at various stages on the capital markets. Belgium has received a drawing right of up to EUR 7.8 billion from the EU. The Belgian Debt Agency manages that right of coverage for Belgium. In December 2020, the Belgian Debt Agency received the first EUR 2 billion in SURE funds. In February 2021, the European Commission made available the second and third discs. The total amount involved is EUR 2 billion. There is no obligation to fully include the right of draw. The European Commission will subsequently verify that expenditure is in line with needs. Most of the Belgian funds are made available to the RSZ to cover the costs of temporary unemployment and parental leave. The regions and the Communities also received some of the funds. The Belgian Debt Agency can go into this in more detail and the Agency is also competent to answer your second, third and fourth questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u76	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It brings some clarification, but I am still hungry, as I have to knock on some of my questions elsewhere. Even though I thought that my questions on the subject were not really rocket science, it doesn't seem natural to get them answered today. I would like to thank you for the effort you have made to try.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u77	Mr Minister, on previous occasions we have talked about wage subsidies in the context of the corona policy, rather than paying a lot of workers to sit at home on the basis of temporary unemployment, giving them the opportunity to prepare for their work the post-corona era and the future through training, the development of new concepts and so on. This tends more towards the Dutch model, where it is applied successfully, even partly at the expense of a number of sectors in our country. Certainly from Flanders and the Flemish government, the signal has been given several times that the system seems to be something to the Flemish government to fill in the period of temporary unemployment more forward-lookingly. The Flemish Minister for Work, Hilde Crevits, also stated that she would raise the issue at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on 29 January 2021. At the same time, we know that the federal government is also working on a package of relay measures. In the meantime, a number of things have become clear. As regards the division of powers, the Council of State made it clear that wage subsidies are actually a form of aid to companies, which is a competence of the Regions and not of the federal government. Of course, if a particular region wants to use a system of wage subsidies temporarily in the context of preparing the post-corona era, there is a real chance that regulations at federal level will have to be adapted to allow for such a system of wage subsidies at regional level. So my questions are summarised as follows. Firstly, Minister Crevits announced his intention to address the issue at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on 29 January 2021. Can you explain how the discussion has ended and what has been agreed to get to work on the idea? Secondly, are you prepared with the federal government to make matters such as the system of wage subsidies regionally possible, inter alia by adapting the federal regulations where necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u78	Minister, Mr Anseeeuw has outlined the problem very well. So I'll go straight to my question. We had understood in the question of wage subsidies and the preliminary draft law that the Council of State had stated on the federal level that the wage subsidy is a form of economic aid to companies, which is a competence of the Regions. How do we deal with that statement? I understood from the Council of Ministers' report of Friday 5 March 2021 on the website that an amendment would have been tabled or proposed and would also have been submitted to the Council of State, amendment aimed at exempting certain sectors, such as the travel sector, from the employer's contribution for a number of quarters. Mr Minister, is that the solution that you see to respond to the questions from the sectors, which are now becoming very specific again with the Easter holiday ahead, since a number of things cannot go on again and a lot of things had been booked before the Easter holiday? Moreover, you should know that travel vouchers, for which I am also partly responsible, can now be brought in for reimbursement after 12 months. We know the problem. You certainly know them in your capacity as Minister of Economy. Is there any solution in the proposal that you sent to the Council of State on Friday concerning the exemption from the employer's contribution to meet this? Is this going to replace the proposal? Were there any consultations with the Regions on the federal concession that would happen in this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u79	Mr Minister, I will be brief. The disadvantage of being the last to be addressed is that the questions were already asked. How will you deal with the opinion of the Council of State, now that it appears that this is a regional issue as an economic policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u80	Thank you, Mrs De Jonge, Mrs Muylle and Mr Anseuw, for your questions, which allow me to give you the latest state of affairs. The Council of State has indeed delivered a negative opinion on the measure of the wage subsidy for the travel sector. The Council considers that the measure in this form does not fall within the competence of the federal government. The government then decided to support the sector in the form of a reduction in social security contributions. The text was adopted last Friday by the Council of Ministers and delivered to the Council of State for its opinion. The employers concerned may receive a reduction in their social security contributions for the second and fourth quarters of 2020 and the first quarter of 2021. A target group reduction is foreseen for the second quarter of 2021. This measure applies to employers whose principal activity is travel agency or tour operator, which are subject to legal obligations regarding the sale of package travel, linked travel arrangements and travel services, as determined by the Law of 21 November 2017. The employers have kept the workers at work without any income. As in the case of wage subsidies, employers will have to meet certain conditions. It is about maintaining employment and training for workers. In addition, social dialogue should also be planned and dividends should not be paid in 2021. I have not been contacted by my colleagues from the other levels of competence. I have heard that this slope has been on the table, but I note that no such measure has been taken. Your questions about any asymmetric policy are therefore not discussed here. I do not need to remind you of what the coalition agreement says about this. I would like to draw your attention to another measure adopted by the Council of Ministers on Friday. It is an aid measure for the event sector. In order to help employers with the step-by-step reopening, it was decided to provide for a reduction in the target group for five employees for two quarters. This aid is also subject to similar conditions. These may be workers currently in temporary unemployment, but they may as well be workers who are still working but who need to support the employer in carrying labour costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u81	Thank you, Minister, for your very enlightening answer. I was somewhat surprised when you said that Mrs Crevits did not mention this with you. She did, however, express that commitment. I believe what you're saying. I have no element to doubt what you are saying, but I am surprised, because Mrs Crevits' statement and the Flemish Government were clear. That is why we need a little more research. Without wishing to comment on the text adopted by the government last Friday - and I do not, of course, know that text yet - it is a good thing that the federal government is looking for a solution in the short term that will allow a number of sectors to prepare for that post-corona future. In principle, I am therefore satisfied with this. I have a purely hypothetical question, given that the formal question has not yet been put to you from a regional level. Suppose that question is asked, are you effectively open to supporting such regional initiatives when they come to it by making the necessary adjustments to federal regulations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u82	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I think the sectors have been in favour of it for a long time. I even remember discussing this dossier when I handed over the powers to you. After all, the administrative process has been going on for a long time, without any revenue. I also think it is a good thing that you go back to the second and fourth quarters of 2020 and the first quarter of this year, which is positive for this sector, which is having a very difficult time, by the way, as is the event sector. I understand that the text will be discussed in this committee after receiving the advice of the Council of State, so we will be able to discuss it further. Madam President, in order to lighten the agenda, I would like to put my questions to the President-in-Office. 55014056C, 55014058C and 55014124C in written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u83	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think it is very positive that the government has quickly switched to work out alternative support measures. The opinion of the Council of State has yet to come on the reduction of social contributions and the reduction of the target population. This is also being applied to other sectors that are also struggling. I think it is important for everyone that we should be able to keep the workers at work and that we should also be able to combine the maintenance of employment with training. That can alleviate the suffering, which is very positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u84	Mr Minister, this is a very short question. On the agenda of the Council of Ministers on 5 February, I saw that, among other things, the item 'weighing of the functions of administrator-general and deputy administrator-general at the RVA' was mentioned. First of all, what is the reason for this weighting? Secondly, what is the exact nature of this weighting? Thirdly, what are the specific consequences for the leading officials involved and their remuneration?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u85	Mr Anseeeuw, the dossier discussed by the Council of Ministers on 5 February concerns the weighting of the post of future administrator-general and deputy administrator-general at the RVA. These functions will have to be completed after the retirement of Mr Georges Carlens and Ms Claudette De Koninck respectively in October 2021. The weighting is based on the Royal Decree of 30 November 2003 and the Royal Decree of 11 July 2001. The weighing system shall include 13 criteria to assess the functions. These include knowledge and experience, multidisciplinaryness, contextual insight, complexity, innovation, leadership, management of working conditions, planning and coordination, the ability to introduce changes, interaction, management of human resources, autonomy, impact and scope of the territory. The mandate functions shall be linked to one of the seven salary scales based on the number of points assigned in the weighting. The function of Chairman of the Management Committee is always divided into salary scale 7. Salaries are only indexed and no intermediate increases are applied. The weightings shall be fixed for a period of six years. They may evolve on the basis of the nature of the function, but not on the basis of the person holding the function. The function of future administrator-general and deputy administrator-general shall be weighted in the same way as hitherto. There will therefore be no financial impact on the institution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u86	Thank you, Minister, for the very detailed and complete answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u87	Mrs Vanrobaeys, first of all I would like to say that the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service is not an operational inspection service. It is a strategic body that develops a vision for combating social fraud and translates it into concrete strategies. The SIOD therefore does not carry out checks on the ground, the checks are ensured by the individual social inspection services, the supervision of the Social Laws, the National Social Security Office and so on. The RSZ is not aware of the specific investigation of the tax authority to which you refer. The problem of courier companies is well known by the SIOD and the various social inspection services. Often these are obscure subcontractors and situations of false self-employment, undeclared work and social and economic exploitation. Not seldom does the fraud play in favour of the larger players they sometimes organise. Actions are taken on a regular basis. In 2020, SIOD conducted a survey of the various stakeholders, including the social partners, in preparation for the Social Fraud Action Plan. The survey showed that undeclared work remains a problem in the transport of small packages. Economic pressure is often too high to be profitable if all contributions are paid. SIOD is aware that the transport sector is facing this phenomenon and many other forms of fraud. The Annual Action Plan 2021 therefore sets out 900 controls in the transport sector, including courier services. These are SIOD actions, joint controls carried out by the various inspection services within the arrondissements. In order to address the specific problems of the sector, a plan for fair competition in the transport sector was developed in 2016. This plan contains concrete measures to combat social fraud in the sector and to promote fair competition. One of the measures was the conclusion of a partnership agreement with the sector, signed in 2016. Under this Partnership Agreement, SIOD organises regular follow-up meetings with the various stakeholders. The next meeting is scheduled for 11 March. That is where we will, of course, discuss the problem you are raising. Together with my colleagues responsible for SIOD, as chairman of the tripartite consultation between the inspection services, the social partners and policy, I will evaluate the plan and, if necessary, adjust it. Finally, I believe that research data should be exchanged between tax and social administrations. As Vice-President of the College in the fight against tax and social fraud, I have therefore asked for this issue to be taken up within the College.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u88	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It was indeed the tax authority that exposed a carousel to courier companies working for PostNL. The trade union states that PostNL is not the only courier company that works with such shady subcontractors. Indeed, there is the 2016 Partnership Agreement. I'm glad you're having a follow-up meeting next week. With the increase in courier companies and the whole parcel traffic through corona and because we are all at home and the shops were closed for a while, it is important to evaluate and adjust this. If the sector itself is not able to control the excesses, more stringent measures are needed in this respect. I am very pleased that you would like to ask the tax authorities to exchange data. If the tax authorities say that there is a whole carousel of tax fraud, I would not be surprised if the same applies to social security contributions and social fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u89	Mr. Secretary, I would like to take up with you the recommendations No. 2021-R/001 of the Institute for Equality between Women and Men on the Implementation of ILO Convention No. 190 on the elimination of violence and intimidation in the world of work. That treaty is a very important milestone at international level, where trade unions, companies and governments finally came to an agreement to tackle violence and intimidation in the workplace. The Convention also devotes a great deal of attention to gender-based violence and sexual harassment in the workplace. In the meantime, the IGM has analysed what should be changed in Belgian legislation and policy to ratify and ratify the Convention. When exactly we can expect the government to have the Treaty No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Can you indicate which recommendations of the IGM for the implementation of the Convention will or will not follow you and why?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u90	The aim of the International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention No. 190 is to eliminate all forms of harassment at work. This is a fundamental tool that Belgium will endeavour to ratify as soon as possible. Since this is a mixed matter, both federal and federated entities will have to give their consent for ratification of the Convention. Convention No. 190 was presented at the last inter-ministerial conference on women's rights on 25 January. In their opinion delivered on 20 June 2020, the social partners note that national legislation complies with the requirements of the Convention and that a consent procedure can therefore be envisaged quickly. They also point out that improvements are still possible. In this respect, the National Labour Council (NCT) states that such improvements cannot be achieved successfully without the close involvement of the social partners. In addition to the protection of all workers against harassment, Treaty No. The International Labour Organisation (ILO) has a specific gender-related link. Violence and intimidation affect women and girls disproportionately and therefore require an inclusive, integrated and gender-conscious approach. Within this framework, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men has made recommendations to further debate and further improve applicable practices and regulations on gender-based harassment. These recommendations are currently being analysed within my administration. The transposition of this international standard implies, for our internal legal order, both consultation between the various levels of government and consultation with the social partners. Since the gender dimension is at the heart of the Convention, I will also consult with the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Mrs Schlitz.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u91	Minister, thank you for your answer to this question that I have tabled for several weeks. The aim is to recognize the right of everyone to evolve in a world of work that is free from violence and harassment. This is very important because, as you point out, women and girls are more affected than men and boys. This ratification will help to develop relevant policies and a comprehensive strategy that I invite you to follow. You refer to Opinion No 2168 of the CNT which I myself noted and to which reference was made in the previous debate on the conformity of Belgian legislation. That is an additional reason for us to engage in this struggle. In consultation with the social partners, our presence on the international stage in the fight for equality of men and women in the workplace, but not only, is an important symbolic marker. Women need a secure working environment in Belgium or elsewhere. As you point out, consultation with the federated entities and the social partners will be a preliminary step. I encourage you to speed up the process of ratification of Convention 190.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u92	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It's obvious to us. The Treaty No. 190 of the ILO must be transposed into Belgian legislation and policies as soon as possible. It is still unclear to me when we will make progress. That is very urgent, because every incident of gender-based violence and sexual harassment in the workplace is too much. The IGVM has pointed the way in its recommendation, so we are counting on the government to follow that path.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u93	Minister, the so-called unemployment trap has been considerably reduced in recent years, but it is not yet gone. There are still a lot of unemployed people who make an effort to improve their situation, but still see the result of this being largely taxed. I am not saying that, the Central Board for Business writes that in a report. There are several situations where net income increases very little when the beneficiary briefly resumes work. This is due to the high tax burden on the most recent euro earned, the marginal rate. In some bizarre situations, a small extra income is even swallowed up and taxed away. The problem is even greater as the benefit is higher. Another disadvantage is that some people are punished because they are retrained. Recognized training, for example, includes incentives to direct people towards niches where there are too few staff. The Central Council for Business says that in some cases these are considered as compensation for employment benefits. This additional income will not be subject to tax exemption according to the tax authorities which tax the first few hundred euros in full. Mr Minister, despite all good intentions, things are not going as they should. What policy conclusions do you draw from these findings? Do you want to tackle unemployment traps by removing, among other things, the above gaps? What will you do and what will you not do? That last question is at least as important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u94	Mr Anseuw, I have taken note of the report and will study its conclusion in greater detail. The CRB has carried out simulations and concludes that there are no cases where the accumulation of a benefit with an income from employment is less net than when the taxable person receives only a benefit. That is certainly a good thing. In a number of cases, the difference remains limited. As you have pointed out, this is primarily due to the relatively high tax burden on labour, but also because, as the report points out, the minimum wage has not been increased since 2008, regardless of indexation. In terms of relative purchasing power, the interprofessional minimum wage has thus risen less than the average gross wage. Real increases on the basis of successive sectoral agreements have improved the average gross wage. The increase in the minimum wage is primarily the work of the social partners. The coalition agreement states that we want to further reduce the burden on labour. The Minister of Finance is responsible for this. Finally, the FPS Finance could consider the problem of incentives for training and their qualification as labour income with the institutions of the Regions and the Communities organising the training courses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u95	Of course, Minister, your answer is not entirely reassuring. You have suggested a number of possibilities that could be explored. You yourself indicated that you would like to further study the conclusions of the report of the Central Council for Business. If you really want to work on an inclusive labour market policy, I understand that this is one of your ambitions and of a higher employment rate, it is of the utmost importance to eliminate such anomalies in order to encourage people to make that effort, while they are now often confronted with what is actually a disappointment. That can't be the intention at all. This is a difficult way to motivate people. I really hope that you, together with your competent colleagues in the Finance and Social Affairs sector, will work to overcome those gaps which, despite all good intentions, do not destroy the least of the people involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u96	Madam President, Minister, we discussed the issue of unemployment benefits in plenary last month. What is the current state of play, not only in relation to the Auxiliaries, but also in relation to the other paying institutions? As regards the payment of the pending files, have you contacted the RVA to arrange for an advance payment to be made on the benefit? What about the more complex files? You spoke in plenary about granting an additional period of one month for the verification procedure of a dossier so that the experts of the Auxiliaries have more time to deal with these complex dossiers. Do you have an update on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u97	Madam President, Minister, this question now belongs in the list of half-martial questions. She's almost a month old, the corona crisis has been going on for almost a year. Despite the chronology of the past eleven to twelve months, there are apparently poignant practices in the payout institutions. Whether it's the auxiliary cash or the union, it doesn't matter. There are several payout institutions that apparently do not get it done to pay out temporary unemployment benefits in a correct and timely manner. More than that, they do not even manage to speak to benefit recipients about the benefit that should come but not come. In a number of cases, the problems would be mainly due to the digitalisation that had not yet been introduced by the payout institutions, the complexity of the regulation, and so on. One cannot, of course, come up with the same excuses over and over again. Many measures have already been announced that should make a difference. Like my colleague Samyn, I am very curious to see a current state of affairs. There's little point in raving my question, which is a month old, right now. Maybe now we can get a topical answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u98	I did speak with Minister Lalieux. On the one hand, we have agreed to organise a consultation with all insurance institutions in order to make them even more aware of the problem. On the other hand, meetings will be organized between the federations of the OMCWs and the relevant bodies under the coordination of the Programmatory Public Service Social Integration. It was also agreed that the PPS Social Integration will closely monitor the evolution of the number of files at the OCMWs through the monitoring of the impact of the corona crisis. The POD will not hesitate to pull the alarm if necessary. I have a table at your disposal. The table shows that 78.6 % of the temporary unemployed were paid out in 2020 in the first 10 days of the month following the month in which they became temporarily unemployed, and 18.5 % within the next 30 days. The table compares 2020 and previous years. The good global payout periods do not prevent a limited proportion of files from facing specific problems that may impact the payout. That limited proportion represents a few thousand cases, given the huge mass of applications. The delay is explained not only by the exceptionally high workload. The complexity of the files also plays a role, as does the fact that the necessary documents were sent late for payment. Faced with the increase in the number of workers to be paid out and the unemployed, payout institutions have given priority to the speed of payout. In addition, they had to take into account quarantine rules and the protection of workers and clients. A year after the start of the crisis, the workload is still much higher than usual. The problems of late payment are due not so much to the dysfunctional relationship between the RVA and the payout institutions, but rather to the exceptional overload faced by the payout institutions. The crisis period is not expected to last long. Since the beginning of the crisis, several initiatives have been taken at the HVW to reduce the backlog. First of all, it is possible to make remote appointments. Secondly, the e-digital project was set up to collect information from scanned documents via artificial intelligence. Thirdly, there is full contact with the project to collect all documents and information in order to draw up a complete application for unemployment. Fourthly, the organisation of work in the various HVW offices and the training were unified. Fifth, e-learning and weekend work for employees were introduced. Sixthly, we have recruited 50 additional employees and, seventhly, there are various computer automations. Finally, Mr Anseeeuw, the RVA and the payout institutions work closely together, each on the basis of their role. The payout institutions provide the unemployed with advice and information on their rights and obligations and the documents necessary for their claim for benefits. Unemployed people who wish to submit an application will contact a payout institution. The payout institution shall compile a file and submit it to the RVA. The RVA shall verify that all conditions are met and shall issue an authorisation to pay. The payout institution shall communicate the content of that positive decision to the unemployed person. The RVA pays monthly advances to the payout institutions so that they can pay the unemployed and subsequently verify that the payments made by the payout institutions are correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u99	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In any case, this is similar to the procession of Echternach. I really hope that the matter will continue to be followed up closely. You say that 50 additional staff are recruited to relieve the burden on the experts, so that they can focus fully on the difficult dossiers, but apparently that is still not enough. We are now one year after date; the virus has been holding us in a stranglehold for a year now. I believe that every Member of this House receives distressing e-mails every week from citizens who do not make ends meet and are waiting for benefits. They're being sent from the locker to the wall. Even if they go to the Auxiliaries or any other payout institution or are referred to the RVA, at the end of the journey there is no money in their account. I hope you will certainly work towards a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u100	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer. I look forward to the table you'll get us. If it shows that more than one beneficiary has to wait for five more than 10 days while invoices continue to enter, then it is not a few thousand but hundreds of thousands of beneficiaries who have to wait horribly long. Some of them have to wait even longer than a month. You referred to initiatives such as recruitment of additional staff and further automation at the Auxiliaries. However, it is no longer just about the Auxiliaries. In April last year this was the case effectively, but in the meantime we have found that the accessibility of the ABBV in Antwerp, for example, is also problematic by phone or mail. The response time to an e-mail about the much-needed income could be up to five weeks. There will be good reasons why it cannot be answered in time, but of course that is not helpful if the invoices accumulate. The gap in payout is between two and four months for a number of families. That is actually irresponsible, at least a year after date. At the beginning it could still be argued that there was no provision for it, that no one could have expected such a crisis and that it was doing its best to do something about it. However, it is now a year later and we are still facing the same problems. I would be happy to assume that the RVA and the payout institutions work well together, but the perception of a lot of people is different. They have the impression that they are constantly being sent from the cabinet to the wall, which, of course, is detrimental to the credibility of the government. In fact, this is also detrimental to families themselves, where mouths have to be fed every day and not every 40 days or every four months, when it is possible to get a benefit. I really hope that the time for faint excuses is over and that the time has come for the timely payments of much-needed income replacement benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u101	Mr Piedboeuf, thank you for your question. I shall reply to this question quickly and briefly, since we have immediately resolved the problem which you rightly raised with regard to the Belgian frontier workers in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg who are travelling on behalf of their employer. The SPF Economy has developed a pragmatic solution with the Embassy of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in Belgium, according to which the BTA of this group is dealt with directly by the Embassy of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in Belgium. This provided a quick and pragmatic response to the question that you raised in a judicious and relevant way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u102	Mr Minister, I did not expect any less efficiency on your part, and thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u103	Madam President, Mr Van der Donkt, the annual employment conference is taking place this year under the theme of A Harmonic End of Career. The conference will invite the social partners, the regions and various stakeholders to provide their analysis and exchange views on this issue. The aim is to establish concrete action plans for possible reforms or new measures. With regard to the practical arrangements, a note will soon be submitted to the members of the government. I can already tell you that, given the health situation, the conference is likely to be held in June. In relation to your last question, the conference is not part of the ongoing work on pension reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u104	I asked my last question deliberately, Mr Minister, because, of course, pension reform and the increase in the level of employment, i.e. labour market reform, are very coherent. Maybe it wouldn't be bad to organize some interaction. At least I'm looking forward to the conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u105	Madam President, I would be more than happy to answer my question. 55014953C on well-being at work turn into a written question, but it is merged with other questions. If the others are also prepared to receive a written reply, I am prepared to translate the question. Is it an option that we ask everyone whether they agree to the conversion into a written question? At the next meeting there will be just as many questions. We can never finish that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u106	In my opinion, we will do a similar exercise in the afternoon, in fifteen days, as we now do on a regular basis. As far as your question is concerned, I see indeed that there are joint questions from Mrs Muylle, Mrs Vanrobaeys, Mr Anseew, Mr Colebunders and Mrs Moscufo. I therefore propose that you see this together. If you wish to turn these questions into written questions, I suggest that you send an e-mail to the secretariat. Otherwise, they will be treated within 15 days. It's up to you to see how long it takes. I'll let you settle this between you two.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic400x.u107	Madam President, I would like to put my question to the President-in-Office. Transform 55015025C into a written question.
