ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u1	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, first of all I apologize for being late. I came by train, but they still have some work to do. I understand that everything will be resolved as soon as we can all trace for free. I have a whole series of questions about the budget. These are fascinating times. You are about to start the budgetary conclave, and it is therefore interesting to outline some parameters with Parliament in advance: where are we and where are we going? I will start with the fourth question, about the impact of rising energy prices on the index. We note that energy prices continue to rise. This morning, the phenomenal rise in gas prices was in the news. Of course, this goes on because we have a system of automatic indexation, which increases wages and increases a number of benefits. This indexation was predicted by a number of independent organisations but was not yet included in the budget. That will have to be done by means of an adaptation sheet, we have already heard from you. However, it would be a good idea if you could give us an update on the latest state of affairs. This is because the analysis is that the budget will be exceeded again within the year. If I am not mistaken, this would be the case in June 2022. So I would have liked to have seen the latest state of affairs in order to be able to correctly assess the budget. What about the budgetary adjustment now and the increase and possible indexation over a number of months?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u2	The inflation outlook is currently strongly subject to change. The latest inflation outlook of the Federal Planning Office dates from 7 September 2021. The average annual inflation rate is therefore estimated to be 1,90 % for 2021 and 2,10 % for 2022 compared to 0,74 % in 2020 and 1,44 % in 2019. The growth rate of the so-called health index, which is used, inter alia, in the calculation of wage indexation, social benefits and rents, will average 1,60 % in 2021 and an average of 2,10 % in 2022, compared to 0,99 % in 2020 and 1,46 % in 2019. In August 2021, the central index for government betting and social benefits was last reached. This is two months earlier than expected in the previous inflation outlook of July 2021. The next overrun of the spill-over index at present would take place in June 2022. The budgetary impact on primary expenditure of exceeding the central index in August instead of October is estimated at almost €80 million. This amount is higher than the amount of EUR 60 million already included in the Monitoring Committee's memo and was to cover the cost of exceeding the spill-over index in October in 2021. However, on 21 September, the Monitoring Committee will publish an update of its July report for the financial years 2021-2022, which it has done in the meantime. The estimates will be based, inter alia, on macroeconomic parameters from the economic budget of the Federal Planning Office of 9 September. At that time, the impact of the early overrun of the central index will also be known on the expenditure side of social benefits and on the revenue side of social contributions and corporate tax. It is often forgotten that exceeding the central index has an impact not only on the expenditure side but also on the revenue side. In addition, I am not taking into account the derivative effects on consumption, VAT and corporate tax, among other things. I would also like to remind you that the Michel I administration, for example, made an index jump on its arrival and that, on the basis of the estimates made by the then Finance Minister Johan Van Overtveldt, this operation was budget neutral.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u3	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, you confirm that the next overrun of the pivotal index is expected to take place in June 2022. Then we know that this will have to be taken into account in the budgetary discussions in the coming weeks. To be honest, I'm a little surprised at the budgetary impact. After all, we discussed them in budgetary control just before the summer. I think I remember that the Court of Auditors' note states an amount of EUR 267 million. It was then about the impact in several months. I think three months. If you are talking about a budgetary impact of EUR 80 million in excess of the EUR 60 million already estimated, it is EUR 140 million in total and not EUR 260 million in the Court of Auditors. Moreover, the latter amount was only for the months of October, November and December. The amount of EUR 140 million covers at least the month of September in view of the advance overrun. I may be missing some information on this so that I can look at the total additional costs for this year's budget and possibly for the budgets of the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u4	Mr Loones, I have here the details of what would cost an extra month. In the post Staff in primary expenditure, EUR 10 million should be entered, on that of Personnel for the entities EUR 931,000, on the amount of pensions EUR 40 million, on the item Persons with disabilities EUR 6 million, on that of OCMW RMI (Right to Social Integration) EUR 1.3 million, on that of OCMW for the implementation of the law of 1965 EUR 216 000, representing a total of EUR 60 million per month.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u5	So you give the cost per month, while the Court of Auditors spoke in three months. If we multiply 80 million by 3, we actually get 240 million. That'll explain the numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u6	Madam Secretary of State, there is a lot of interest in the budget. We have seen this in the interviews given, among other things, by party chairmen. This morning, some of them will be reviewed. This question was tabled following an interview with Conner Rousseau, President of Vooruit, in the newspaper of West Flanders, in which he said that the budget will be the test for this government. There he balances the parameter on a budget by 2030. Personally, I would like to see more ambition, but I was quite surprised by Conner Rousseau's ambition. I expected it to be lower and to indicate a later date than 2030. Madam Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Has that been spoken through? Is that purely Conner Rousseau's speech, or is a specific date used as a reference within the government, and is it for the government and for you 2030? The interview also referred to Jean-Luc Dehaene and the exercises that then took place to allow Belgium to join the euro area. There was then a provisional special crisis tax, which we are still paying today, 30 years later. I can update this question, because I now read that the Minister of Finance wants to abolish this crisis tax. This is also seen as the counterpart to abolishing the tax on second residences, abolishing the RSZ on footballers and doing something about copyright. The Minister says that if we abolish these tax advantages, we can abolish this crisis tax instead. What about the crisis tax? Will it remain in force? Do you think this makes any sense? Is consideration being given to introducing a similar new load, considering corona? There is also the debate on European budgetary standards, but in view of the speaking time, I will be asking that question later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u7	As Secretary of State for the Budget within this government, I must first ensure that the coalition agreement is properly implemented. The coalition agreement provides for a fixed and variable effort per entity. The fixed effort shall be 0,2 % of gross domestic product cumulatively per year for the period 2021 and 2024. For the variable effort, it was decided to start from 2022 and to make it dependent on the level of GDP and on the recorded growth rates. In the context of the establishment of the 2022 budget, it will be necessary to assess whether the implementation of the fixed effort is on track and to calculate and complete the variable effort on the basis of the parameters of the September economic budget. The horizon for this government is limited to 2024 and the orientations of fiscal policy were laid down in the government agreement, as explained earlier. I understand that you would like to hear a specific year from me, but I will have to disappoint you in that regard. We are still struggling with what, hopefully, are the aftermath of the health crisis that, although less than originally feared, has had an unprecedented impact on our economy. There is still a lot of uncertainty about both the course of the corona crisis and the strength of the recovery. The first objective should be to stop debt growth and to reverse the rise to a decrease. That's a real priority. The government agreement provided for a distribution of the variable effort with a third expenditure, a third revenue and a third miscellaneous. It is certainly premature to deduce from this that consideration is being given to the introduction of a crisis tax, which you spoke of. In the context of the preparation of the 2022 budget, on the basis of the economic budget of 9 September, that government will determine the variable effort to be made and implement it with the necessary measures in accordance with the key agreed in the coalition agreement. There is currently no official position of the European Commission on any adjustment of the budgetary framework or on any other treatment of public investment. The original timing proposed by the Commission at the end of 2020 was postponed under pressure from the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, I will have questions about the European framework and the coalition agreement, because there is also a tension between what is said in the press and what is said in Parliament. I would like to briefly replicate the provisional crisis tax. I note that you said that the discussion on the introduction of a provisional crisis tax on corona is premature. So I did not hear you close the door, but the coalition agreement does state that no new taxes will be introduced. I can hear you saying that as Secretary of State for the Budget, it is not a big deal. So this may still be the outcome of the budgetary negotiations. So that would not be entirely out of the question. We'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u9	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, this question is also an important one. It deals with ministers who like to announce a wide range of things, but the budgets do not always seem to follow. At least something goes wrong in that respect. I would like more transparency on this. In this case, it's about support for people who want to go to the psychologist. That measure has been widely announced by the Minister of Health, Frank Vandenbroucke. This consultation of a psychologist could in future be limited to EUR 11, which means a very large threshold reduction. People, including young people, will be easier to go to the psychologist. Its costs would be reduced. What do we read from the specialists? This would not be the case. Only 30% of psychologists would work at the 11 euro rate. That is because the budget is not sufficient. That's what the Flemish Association for Clinical Psychologists says. It states that Minister Vandenbroucke has earmarked EUR 151 million for this, while the cost would be EUR 1.5 billion. I always have a hard time with that. I have also pointed out in the past that, in my opinion, a government should not create expectations that it cannot meet. This is not only not good for the credibility of politics, but it is also not good for the support of good governance. That is why I have a number of questions. How is that exactly what happened? How come a minister can just communicate that everyone can go to the psychologist for 11 euros, although that's not true? Which file was delivered to you in advance? What were the numbers in that? What analyses have been made? What parameters have been used? What was the budget opinion of the Treasury Inspectorate? Has it not noticed that the EUR 151 million is largely inadequate and is one tenth of the amount that would seem to be needed? It is really special that such a measure should be communicated, in addition to to those who are weaker in society, and that real expectations should be created that apparently cannot be met.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u10	Madam President, Mr Loones, at the end of June 2021 an agreement was signed between the representatives of the sector, the RIZIV and the Public Health Office. The file has not yet been submitted to the government. So I have not yet delivered a budget agreement on this. However, a number of requests have been made for the matter to be referred quickly to the government. So, at present, I can only tell you that within the RIZIV budget an amount of EUR 39 million is entered within the partial budget objective 40 entitled 'Psychological Care' and EUR 200 million within the partial budget objective 45, which is 'Re-evaluation of Mental Health Care'. For all other questions, therefore, I can only refer you to the Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, this has once again proved the ungrateful job you have, but I am pleased that it is apparently EUR 230 million and not EUR 150 million. It is not yet the EUR 1.5 billion that is needed, but it is already a little more. However, you will have to talk a little bit about this within the government. It is a measure which entered into force on 1 September, but you say that it has not yet been discussed at the Council of Ministers and that you have not even received a dossier on it. What kind of work is that? Policy changes are being made, but they are not even discussed in the government, and the Minister for Health does not even think it is worth asking for the advice of the Finance Inspectorate or the advice of the Budget services on this measure. That's just inappropriate governance. Those are words I do not use lightly and I think Minister Vandenbroucke is worth more, because we know him as a good minister. That is what happens on the hood of people who are psychologically weaker. I really... I won't finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u12	The regional outlook has no impact on the budgetary objectives set out in the stability programme established by the European Commission in April. Firstly, the projections of the Federal Planning Office do not take into account all the measures announced, but only those whose modalities are sufficiently defined. Secondly, I assume that the sub-areas, like the federal government, are also making the necessary adjustments to achieve the objectives set. In addition, the gradual slowdown in the growth rates for the regions after the recovery 2021 and 2022 had already been included in the economic outlook of the Federal Planning Office of June for entity 2. These projections were included in the June Monitoring Committee report. These regional prospects will not result in this government abandoning the objective of achieving an 80% target by 2030. On the contrary, the government maintains this objective, which is explicitly included in the coalition agreement. In order to achieve this objective, the focus will be on the rate of inactivity in the category 25-64 years in general and on the level of activity and activity of older workers and vulnerable groups in particular. Concrete initiatives and action plans will be taken to this end in consultation with the social partners and the Länder. The government will consult the Länder in a structural manner in order to arrive at the necessary measures, in a spirit of federal cooperation, to support and support the labour market policies of the Länder. As usual, the government takes the report of the Monitoring Committee as the starting point for the budget conclave. Obviously, the conclave is limited to entity 1. However, the estimates of entity 2 as part of the result for joint government are also taken into account. The Monitoring Committee's report has already taken into account estimated deficits for the Communities and Regions and local authorities by the Planning Bureau. The Monitoring Committee estimated the deficit for the joint government at 5% in 2026 compared with a deficit of 5.6% according to the economic outlook of the Federal Planning Office. The International Monetary Fund estimates the deficit for Belgium for 2026 at 4.9 %. The estimated incremental deficits are, of course, not good for the joint government. However, it should not be forgotten that these projections are estimates under unchanged policies. Each Land can be expected to take the necessary measures and action plans to avoid further derailment of its budgetary situation. However, the federal government cannot impose a binding measure on the Länder in budgetary terms. It can only enter into consultation on the basis, inter alia, of the draft budget plan and the Stability Programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u13	First of all, I hope the numbers are a wake-up call for the government. That's why I asked the question. I think you're pretty easy on that. You comment very moderately, but the report nevertheless concludes that the efficacy rate by 2026 but increases to 71 % or 72 %. You and this government want to achieve 80% by 2030. This means that in four years' time you should reach an additional 8%. Of course, under unchanged policies. That's a red flashing light, isn't it? The problem is that this government sets targets that the next government, or even the government afterwards, will have to achieve. Unless the government falls a few times in the meantime, the next government will normally rule from 2024 to 2029. This target of 80% is only set for 2030. Secondly, I asked you, of course, about the federated entities. We see that in absolute terms the deficit in the Walloon region and in the French Community together will be greater than in Flanders. Yesterday, the Flemish Government issued a number of announcements on how it will tackle the deficit. This will also become clear in the coming period. In your reply, you are also always talking about unchanged policies. But I will ask a number of other questions about that today. What exactly is the purpose of the government? When does it want to meet the 3% deficit cape again? When will the budgetary rules be respected? When will the state debt be phased out again? Those are questions I will certainly ask today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u14	Madam President, I refer to the question tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u15	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no...................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u16	At regular intervals there is consultation between the Budget Ministers of the various governments. This usually happens within the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Finance and Budget. On 26 August, I received a letter from Minister Crücke, responsible for Budget in the Walloon Government, concerning the budgetary impact of the July 2021 floods on the Walloon budget. I cannot immediately conclude from the letter that an adjustment of the European budgetary rules is required. However, it calls for the impact of this natural disaster to be taken into account in budgetary discussions. As far as possible contacts between the Prime Minister and Minister Crucke are concerned, I would like to refer you to those involved. There is currently no decision to release other budgetary resources. A meeting of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Finance and Budget took place on Tuesday 21 September, attended by Mr Crücke. In the various points, the regions were reminded that, as part of the preparatory work for the draft budget plan, they were required to provide their information, including the floods, by 30 September. Each Land may be expected to take the necessary measures and action plans to avoid a derailment of the budgetary situation. The federal government has little power to impose budgetary constraints on the Länder. Within the Belgian institutional context, the Länder are responsible for their budgetary policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Secretary of State, the question has been put for some time now, but in the end it is burningly topical. My question was, after all, what can the federal government do to Wallonia? A number of promises have been made by the Prime Minister to Wallonia. In the meantime, figures have already been mentioned. Wallonia wants a fund of EUR 1.2 billion and requires at least EUR 600 million. I thought it was Secretary of State Dermine who said they needed 600 million euros. In the meantime, his colleague, Mr Crücke, has said that it must be EUR 600 million that comes from the federal level. So it is important to keep an eye on all this. Madam Secretary of State, in the press you sometimes appear as the new Margaret Thatcher in Belgium. Perhaps you should speak with Mr Crücke in the manner that Margaret Thatcher has done. I'm quoting the numbers. This year the Walloon authorities have already made 32 billion euros in debt. By 2024, this will amount to at least EUR 44 billion. The Walloon government was not ready for the corona crisis and had red figures for years. On top of that came the corona invoice and now the flood bill comes on top. So I can only advise you to put Margaret Thatcher on the table in Belgium and in front of your coalition partners. Of course, with the reservation that every region within Belgium decides autonomously what it does with its money. That's the assignment, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u18	Madam Secretary of State, I refer to the written version of my question. This is a proposal from Conner Rousseau.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u19	Mr Vermeersch, as Secretary of State for the Budget, I must first of all ensure that the coalition agreement is properly implemented. The government agreement provided for a fixed and variable fiscal effort for entity I. The fixed budgetary effort shall amount to 0,2% of gross domestic product accumulated per year for the period from 2021 to 2024. The variable fiscal effort, starting from 2022, depends on gross domestic product and recorded growth rates. When drawing up the 2022 budget, it will be necessary to assess whether the implementation of the fixed fiscal effort is on track and to calculate and complete the variable fiscal effort on the basis of the parameters of the September economic budget. The horizon for the government is limited to 2024 and the main lines of fiscal policy were laid down in the government agreement. I understand that you would like to hear from me a specific year, but I will have to disappoint you in this matter. We are still struggling with what, hopefully, are the disadvantages of the health crisis, which, although less feared than before, had an unprecedented impact on the economy. There is still uncertainty about the course of the corona crisis and the strength of recovery. The first objective must be to halt debt growth and to reverse the rise towards a decline. Madam President, I have to answer almost the same question as a previous one. In that case, it would be best if questions were combined.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u20	I must confess that something went wrong with the list. A number of questions were grouped together, but were raised separately.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u21	Madam Secretary of State, you mentioned variable and steady efforts. We have all read the coalition agreement and we have heard that passage several times, so we know what is and what is not the purpose of this government. In your reply, you also referred to the budget format for 2022. I hope you are working on that in the meantime, which is why we are asking these questions. We hope that we can get some answers to that today. If we have to postpone everything until December, it will be very late for us. After all, we hope to be able to start the budgetary negotiations in Parliament with some preparation. The coalition agreement does refer to budget restructuring, but not to a budget in balance. Here too, however, you stick to meaningless intentions. After all, you refuse to formulate concrete and clear targets. Conner Rousseau argued in the newspaper for a budget balance in 2030, including the target date for an activity rate of 80%. So the purple-green parties do not set targets for this government or the next but only for those who come afterwards. For example, it is easy to do politics when the majority sets targets for two governments. Party presidents like Rousseau talk a lot in the press and push out the hot potato for themselves. The bill will then be for the next generations. In that sense, the new sp.a is clearly no different from the old one.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u22	Mr Vermeersch, Belgium has contributed $72,253,000 in total, almost EUR 66 million, under the ANA Trust Fund. The first contribution was made in 2015 in accordance with the BC 2015 notifications, basic allocation 14.53.11.35.40.02. In 2021, it was decided to include the appropriations for the ANA Trust Fund in the interdepartmental commission, i.e. EUR 9 million, and no longer directly in the appropriations for Section 14 Foreign Affairs. However, no transfer of appropriations has taken place within the framework of the various CSFs implemented this year. In other words, no expenditure was made under the ANA Trust Fund in 2021. In the context of budget preparation from 2022 to 2026, an amount of EUR 9 million was entered in the interdepartmental commission in 2022, 2023 and 2024. This amount was entered in the commission during the technical preparation of the budgets from 2022 to 2026, i.e. for the take-over by the Taliban. In summary, the various contributions from 2015 to 2020 are EUR 66.334.493.70. For your second question, please refer to the Minister of Defence. No other amounts were explicitly entered in the budget for Afghanistan. The entire government will have to look at this in the context of the budgetary conclave. No amounts, explicitly for Afghanistan, were entered in the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u23	Through this fund Western politicians, Saint Nicholas politicians, pumped no less than 3.4 billion euros into Afghanistan. Our country has paid more than EUR 66 million into a fund through contributions from the federal budget. Other countries have contributed much less. I just looked it up for comparison. Denmark has only contributed EUR 37 million, half of the Belgian contribution. Denmark is comparable to Belgium as a country. That is proof that Belgian politicians, or your predecessors, like to play sponsor of foreign regimes at the expense of the tax payer, but without any guarantee of success. That must be emphasised when we look at the failure in Afghanistan. The Flemish interest can only hope that this government and you, Madam Secretary of State, will learn from such geopolitical failures and better deal with our tax dollars. Many millions flow from our budget abroad, while the needs in our own country, especially after the corona crisis and the floods, have never been so high. So let us finally use our tax money for our own economy, our own businesses and our own people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u24	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, in fact my question on the central index has just been answered. I would like to refer to my written preparation. If there's anything else you'd like to add, you can. Otherwise, Mr Vermeersch will be able to read the answer in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u25	I would also like to refer to my two written questions concerning the central index.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u26	Since the previous answer did not explicitly cover the social security section, I think it is important to read this answer again. No doubt there'll be some overlap, but that's not so bad. First of all, I would like to stress once again that exceeding the central index has a direct impact not only on government expenditure but also on revenue. For example, the government will face, on the one hand, rising wage costs for its federal officials, with an increase in social benefits such as unemployment allowances, pensions and RIZIV benefits, and with an increase in other social expenditure, such as allowances to OMCWs, allowances to disabled people and the income guarantee for older people. On the other hand, however, as a result of higher wages, the government will also generate additional revenue through social contributions and corporate tax. It should also be borne in mind that exceeding the spill-over index also entails a number of secondary effects on employment, consumption and corporate taxation, among other things. As regards the impact on the primary expenditure of the federal government, including the amount of public pensions, the overrun of the spill-over index in August means an additional cost item in 2021 of almost €80 million instead of October. In its July report, the Monitoring Committee had already taken account of an overrun of the spill-over index in October and already estimated around EUR 61 million. The Monitoring Committee published an update of the financial years 2021 and 2022 on 23 September 2021. This update is based on the macroeconomic parameters of the economic budget of the Federal Planning Office of 9 September. This new assessment therefore also takes into account the impact of an earlier than expected overrun of the spillover index, as well as of course all other macroeconomic developments. It is difficult to separate these effects from indexation in the estimates used. However, it can be assumed that the effects on expenditure are largely offset by higher revenue. The Law of 18 April 2017 on the reform of the financing of social security provides that a balance is to be provided for in the system of both employees and self-employed persons and that it is to be determined in such a way that the two global managements neither show a surplus nor a deficit. As a result, the budgetary impact of rising inflation will be absorbed through the balancing dose, but since, as mentioned above, rising inflation has an impact on revenue and expenditure, it can influence the equilibria dose both upwards and downwards. As far as future developments in inflation are concerned, that is difficult to estimate. Most models seem to assume that this surge is temporary, inter alia due to additional tensions on a number of commodity markets. The Federal Planning Office now assumes that the central index will be exceeded in July 2022, where no overrun was foreseen in the June 2021 economic budget in 2022. This means that, compared with the July estimates, additional indexation should be provided for social benefits and five months for civil servants' wagers. The report of the Monitoring Committee of 23 September estimates the impact of this acceleration in the indexation of benefits and betting at EUR 227.5 million for primary expenditure, including public pensions, EUR 497 million for social benefits in the workers' system and EUR 52 million for social benefits in the self-employed system. In total, this amounts to EUR 776.5 million. The above figures show the impact of speeding up the overrun of the central index on entity 1's expenditure. This figure should not be read as the effect of the increased inflation outlook on the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u27	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the additional information. I've got three short replies after all. Firstly, you are Secretary of State for the Budget and you are therefore answering the question about indexation in a budget manner, which means that you have a rather narrow definition of the debate. You are talking about revenue and expenditure and how they are included in the budget. I would like to open it up a little more widely and also call on you to look at the wide-ranging social debate on this issue. People have no message of a narrow, purely budgetary answer, especially when they see prices rise. A lot of wages are linked to the index, but not all. There are plenty of people working in the private sector who do not see automatic wage indexation. They only see prices rise. Secondly, we are talking about a health index in this country, which means that a lot of price increases are not included in this indexation. Even those who see their wages and benefits rise are faced with a number of price increases. It is understandable that you look at the debate as Secretary of State for the Budget, but when you discuss it with your colleagues, pay attention to the broad debate. These include the impact of the European Central Bank's lax monetary policy, the closure of nuclear power plants, which is likely to create additional pressure on energy prices, and a number of fiscal measures. Secondly, we really need to move away from the system of automatic indexation which can take place at any time. Many countries that work with indexation do so with a system of an annualised indexing, which is then applied at the beginning of the year, for example, allowing them to budget in a much predictable way. That is not even the abolition of automatic indexation. That is simply the more orderly application of it, so that predictability can be introduced into the policy. Perhaps that could be a suggestion for your forthcoming budget talks?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u28	Madam Secretary of State, the index jump was predictable, in the sense that the Court of Auditors had already warned in the spring that the index would be exceeded, but at another time. The Court of Auditors expected that by November-December. It's September-October. In the Court of Auditors' report, I saw figures of around EUR 300 million. You mentioned a number of figures that remain below EUR 100 million. I wonder if that is the effect of that shift from November-December to September-October?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u29	It was a month.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u30	Okay. Then I understand better. Madam Secretary of State, the conclusion you make on the effects on expenditure, and also quoted by the Court of Auditors. Apparently, they amount to about EUR 100 million per month. However, you say that there is also an effect on income. That is clear: social contributions are rising, and so on. But I do not think it is as clear as you are suggesting today. Otherwise, in the spring, the Court of Auditors would have attached a concrete figure to expenditure and also a concrete figure on revenue, saying that it is about budget neutral. The Court of Auditors did not do that for the sake of clarity. So I doubt the conclusion that it coincides nicely one by one. Of course there are delayed effects on income. Social contributions will only rise in the long term. There are also a lot of wages that are not getting more, and so on. So I'm afraid to draw your conclusion. The question I have to ask is whether there will be an adjustment of the budget for 2021 this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u31	As I said at a previous committee meeting, there will indeed be an adjustment sheet for this indexation adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u33	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I am sure you have noticed that we are trying to get an idea of what you and this government want to achieve and what the level of ambition is. I hope that you will not only read out the coalition agreement, but will give a little more clarity. You've given a number of interviews. I'm a fan of your interviews, which are always interesting. In that you say that there should be a budgetary exercise of EUR 3 billion. The country, or at least your government, was turned upside down, whereas you had only read the coalition agreement. You have just literally reached the coalition agreement: steady efforts: 0.2; variable efforts: 0.4. The sum of both is 3 billion euros. You have actually read out what is in the coalition agreement, but that is clearly not to be said. Apparently, that's no pasarán for your government partners. Surely that's special, because what exactly is the matter with the coalition agreement? It contains a whole passage about those fixed and variable efforts. It is clear that when the Belgian economy is sufficiently restored, these variable efforts will be made. Many interviews and analyses show that the economy has recovered sufficiently and that we are once again at the pre-corona level. What's the deal with that? Will the coalition agreement, which is written in black and white, also be implemented? I think that this is above all a liberal point in the coalition agreement. Or will only the left-wing points of the coalition agreement be implemented? After all, we have already seen this in the case of the tax increases in pay-cars, the non-indexation of pensions and so on. If it is rather a left-wing point, it is executed. Will ambition also be achieved in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u34	Madam President, Mr Loones, you have already answered your question in the first part. I would like to read again what you said earlier. The size of the variable efforts to be made will be determined during the current budgetary conclave. As far as I am concerned, the year before the start of the corona crisis, i.e. 2019, must be taken as a reference point. The effort should then be determined on the basis of both the level of gross domestic product in real terms compared to the year 2019 (has GDP thus recovered to the level of 2019?) as the strength of economic growth in the year concerned, i.e. 2022-2023-2024. The variable effort to be made will therefore indeed be derived from the figures in the September economic budget, but these discussions are still ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u35	Madam Secretary of State, I am sorry that you are communicating strongly in the press and conducting the debate, but not here in Parliament. What you say in the papers, you don't say here. I don't think that's nice. I think you'd better act consistently both ways or not at all. If you do so everywhere in the newspapers and in Parliament, then we can debate it as it should be in Parliament. I read here in between the lines that what is written in black and white in the coalition agreement is once again under discussion. That it has not been acquired and is again subject to negotiations. However, you have already negotiated this at the time of the government's establishment and paid a price for it. Now a price will have to be paid again for a budgetary framework that should have already been acquired. In this case, we know the value of the coalition agreement. I'm afraid this is a piece of paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u36	Madam Secretary of State, the questions have been put a while ago, and in the meantime we already know a little bit more about the extension of the corona aid measures. Normally, they would all end at the end of September and the press would discuss what measures would be extended and which would not. You said in the press that no measure would be extended, but on the same day Minister Dermagne said that there was a need to talk about it again. In the meantime, we know what the result is: not all measures are being extended, but some are being extended. It would be good if we could have some transparency about this, and also about how these talks have been conducted. I've been able to figure things out, but apparently it's been a tough conversation in the government. At one point, a French journalist from La Libre said there was an agreement, but five minutes later his tweet was removed. The next day he said once again that there was an agreement and that it would be announced at a press conference, but it did not. One day later, there was no agreement and then again. By the way, all this happened while the Prime Minister was on a plane heading for New York. So it wasn't the best turn, but that's for history. I hope that one day someone will give transparency about the atmosphere in the team, but now I would like to have some transparency for the people about what has been decided. A budget of EUR 90 million is mentioned, but on the basis of the same journalist's figures, the figure is EUR 115 million, i.e. a difference of EUR 25 million. In his tweets he said that he had asked the government about that difference and it shows that that is due to what technicians call the price of love. He said that nobody will be told about this and that he hoped that the government would explain it. So I ask you what is the right thing about the price of love.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u37	Madam Secretary of State, I have just opened Belga: these reports are constantly freaking out about the corona aid measures, revisions of press releases and so on. Mr Loones has described this very well. In the end, five corona aid measures would survive and one important measure would not be the reduction of VAT on the catering industry. The reduction in VAT for the catering industry did not survive. We want to update that question. What measures have been maintained? What is the budgetary cost of all these measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u38	Madam President, Mr Loones, Mr Vermeersch, I would like to apologise for having answered you too early. As you pointed out, the government has decided to extend five corona measures in slightly modified form or not. The total cost is estimated at EUR 114.5 million. The respective administrations estimated the cost of extending the measures until the end of 2021 as follows: The cost of the simplified system of temporary unemployment has been estimated at EUR 25.4 million. The transitional right for self-employed persons, which will focus on the single transitional right for self-employed persons with a turnover loss of 65% at the current stage of the sanitary crisis, is estimated at EUR 35.4 million. Support for rail transport is estimated at €14.35 million. The contribution of EUR 25 for the socially vulnerable in this case is estimated at EUR 39.4 million. It is true, therefore, that the premium for the socially vulnerable has a high cost, which is partly financed within the appropriations provided. A budget of EUR 35 million was entered in the initial budget 2021. It's only been used to a small extent. So that's the price of love you mentioned. Of these, EUR 35 million are used.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u39	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, we now have some clarity on the amounts. I note something remarkable, namely that it was initially communicated everywhere that there was a budget of EUR 90 million, which was linked to the extension of the aid measures. The Minister of Finance also uses this to indicate in his communication that the aid has really been limited. We would only spend EUR 90 million more and not the large sums anymore. However, you say today that the amount is EUR 114.5 million. So there seems to be a difference between the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u40	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, EUR 114 million is ultimately a cost that is manageable. In particular, we are missing a measure which was not included and which had to be included for us, namely the extension of the VAT reduction to 6% for the catering industry. You know that a number of businesses, such as nightclubs, only open from 1 October 2021. Therefore, they have never had the benefit of that VAT reduction. On the other hand, there are a lot of businesses that are in their winter season, for example on the Flemish coast, a very difficult season in which little turnover can be achieved. Since these sectors have not yet fully recovered from their losses, they need this support for a little longer. So that is a measure we are missing, especially since it is manageable costs. This measure is feasible and affordable. So that is a failure in the five measures that are before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u41	I would just like to clarify that the EUR 90 million is actually the EUR 114.5 million of the total cost minus the cost recovered through the existing EUR 34 million credit. It is therefore a total cost of EUR 114.5 million, of which EUR 90 million is the additional cost for the extension. Therefore, EUR 24.5 million is recovered from the outstanding loan of EUR 35 million foreseen for the price of love. So there was 35 million euros planned for the price of love. Of this, EUR 24.5 million is recovered from own funds. The EUR 114.5 million minus EUR 24.5 million taken on own funds gives EUR 90 million. That is why it is said that the cost is EUR 90 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u42	Begging is not technically easy and we are all right to communicate as transparently as possible. As far as I am concerned, EUR 114 million is the total cost of extending the measures. When I hear you, I think it's actually more tidy to tell the people. Afterwards there may be technical discussions about the exact line through which this is financed and what amount was what. Everyone must, however, see the total cost transparently. It is to your credit that you immediately give the total cost in your reply, but we would have liked to have read it in the press. I hope that everyone will follow this fascinating discussion in committee, but it is more likely that they have seen the television news or read the newspapers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u43	Madam Secretary of State, especially in difficult budgetary times, interesting proposals emerge because everyone is creatively thinking about the direction to be followed, additional support and the adjustment of the budget. I am all the more interested when such a proposal comes from a Secretary of State for the Budget. And you, Madam Secretary of State, did indeed launch one in Het Laatste Nieuws last summer following your call to think out of the box. You said at the time an idea of economist Milton Friedman to be particularly affectionate: if the wage is really low, the government can add a part so that work pays more. What exactly do you mean by that, Madam Secretary of State? I can read that statement in different ways. I do not read it as an intention to reduce the tax burden on wages, but as a means of introducing a new wage subsidy. Is that the last one indeed what you meant? Or should I interpret them differently? As Secretary of State for the Budget, I assume that you will also calculate the budgetary impact and the possible return effect in the light of more people working on your proposals. So do you have a budget sheet of your proposal? Ideally, there is also an opinion from the Treasury Inspectorate, but I am already satisfied with a budget sheet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u44	Mr. Loones, you seem to be reading all my interviews. In the interview I did indeed advocate a temporary subsidy of low wages. That idea is not so strange and was also included in the Flemish coalition agreement, which provides for a job bonus. In particular, I would like to point out in the interview that it certainly pays to develop alternative incentives on the labour market to help certain groups get to the labour market, especially in the light of the overall objective of an activity rate of 80%. It was not my intention to present a detailed plan, but to show that I am thinking about it. Of course, I leave it to the trade ministers to get to work on it. I do not yet have a comprehensive budget sheet on this. It is certainly useful to take stock of measures to improve the level of activity, and Friedman's ideas can be useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u45	I always like it when there are new proposals and we can debate them. I was wrong to assume that you, as the Federal Secretary of State for the Budget, made a proposal on federal powers, but it is a proposal that may be accepted by the Länder, because they are competent in this matter and you are not. Unless it was going to be a wage subsidy, because then it'll come back to you. It has been proven once again how complex this country is and that labour market policy would rather be completely defederalised. I would like to repeat the appeal I just made to Minister Vandenbroucke for you. When ministers come up with proposals, and certainly budget ministers, it is always interesting to have a budget attached to them, at least in rough terms. It's just a little too easy to throw something into the frog pool of public debate, when there's no minimum calculation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u46	This question concerns the same interview in Het Laatste Nieuws. That was a good interview, with a nice picture. You say that not only jobs should be looked at, but also reforms and savings. You say: "There is also room for savings in social security. It's become too big a safety net that doesn't encourage enough." Given the structure of the interview, you seem to be insinuating that you are in favour of a number of new reforms, activation and so on. I'm not sure that's the case at all. You are also talking about the key tasks debate. What savings in social security are you proposing exactly? What would that bring in the budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u47	As Secretary of State for the Budget, I will not, of course, make any statements in the run-up to the budget debate which could jeopardise the serene preparation of that budget debate. Proposals for savings will be submitted to the government. The statements you're referring to fit perfectly within the coalition agreement. It is the ambition of this government to achieve 80% in the long term. An employment conference is organised every year for this purpose. No specific project has been launched around the core tasks debate. In a comprehensive and complex system such as our social security system, there must be continuous attention to possible efficiency gains. The critical examination and evaluation of existing regulations and regimes from the budget may encourage and support this process, but an important role remains, of course, for the competent administrations, Cabinets and public institutions of social security and the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u48	In your opinion, this proposal to look for savings in social security fits perfectly within the government agreement. However, Mrs Lalieux has said to you on several occasions 'Arrêter avec l'idéologie du tout à l'austérité et tout à l'économie'. I'm not allowed to link everything that appears to be called austerity. You say that it is the coalition agreement and Mrs Lalieux says that it has nothing to do with the coalition agreement, but that that is austerity and that is said that we will not do so. One of them speaks the truth. Is that the Minister of Pensions or is that you? The people have a right to know exactly what was agreed during the government negotiations last year. Does that coalition agreement apply or does it not? Secondly, I respect the fact that you say: I will not make public statements now, so as not to complicate the budgetary negotiations. After all, we are in the run-up to the budgetary discussions. But I note that on 28 August we were not in the run-up to the budget discussions, because you did make statements at that time. So I would like to know: when is the start of the budget debate? It may be interesting to agree a kind of barrier period, among the ministers of this government, to determine when everyone can promise the world, with trees growing up into the sky. Then we also know that we should not take all this seriously, because it has been said before the deadline for the budget. Then we also know that from the start of the barrier period, serious people are only really talking about taxpayers' money. When is the start of the budget? It would be interesting to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u49	This is an important issue. I think I can see the precise division of tasks among the PS ministers. Secretary of State Dermine must bring the PS line very offensively, Minister Lalieux must in fact sabotage everything that is in the coalition agreement and what the PS does not like. She makes proposals that will not succeed anymore, so that the file is immediately contaminated and no longer discussed, and hopefully Minister Dermagne can then be the reasonable voice, which will ensure that something happens within your government. This is the most tangible proposal from Minister Lalieux. What do we determine? The corona crisis was a very busy period, especially for Health and Home Security Ministers. A number of other ministers had less work to do on corona. You could assume the Minister of Pensions was one of them. We all assumed that she was working hard to work out a very solid pension proposal. It has been announced for months that this debate will take place from autumn onwards. However, what we got from the Minister of Pensions was a piece of paper, unworthy of the debate. The only result is that the debate on pensions has now been pushed away. I also note the same thing about the discussion on the labour market proposals. However, you need to negotiate a budget, and the proposals on pensions and labour market policies have a very direct impact on that budget. The Prime Minister indicated earlier that the three themes should be dealt with together during the budget conclave. After all, it is not just about spending money, but also about reforms that have been implemented. I have to say now that the questions on pensions will not be dealt with in the budget conclave. Last week, Minister Van Quickenborne said in De Zondag that pensions will not be discussed now. What do you really think, as the budgetary authority, of that? I can't imagine you think that makes any sense. I assume that you too believe that reforms, spending money and raising money should be part of one and the same debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u50	As Secretary of State for the Budget, it is not strictly necessary for me to link the pension file to budgetary discussions, in particular to the budget statement 2022. It is much more important that the government takes the time to look at and discuss the proposal for pension reform in depth. For me, it is very important that the proposal also achieves the objective set out in the government agreement, and that in other words we have the certainty that the reform will also enable us to manage the projected additional costs of ageing populations. The reform will also help to achieve the government reformed employment rate of 80%. The financial and social sustainability are paramount to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u51	I am sorry that I did not become a journalist, because then I would get other answers from you. Unfortunately, I'm a Member of Parliament, and then I get the wishy-washy. In the newspapers and the media, you say: all reform dossiers obviously have a budgetary impact and we must be very vigilant about that. Here today you say that the pension dossier should not be linked to the budget negotiations. As Secretary of State for the Budget, you say that you prefer a good agreement rather than a quick agreement, but pension measures have already been taken, which means that ageing costs will last ten years longer. We all know that the budgetary costs will amount to more than EUR 26 billion, in addition to the expenditure we had already foreseen for the budget. This is a file in which you have to put your foot in the mud and give it completely counter-intuitive effect. What your government partners are hearing from you today, from the Secretary of State for the Budget, is that it may take you some time. If the costs increase, who will be awake? Well, that's keeping me awake.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u52	I will let Mr Loones catch his breath and refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u53	I will not refer to an interview or tweet by Madam Secretary of State but to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u54	Mrs Dierick, your question was referred to this committee. The FPS Economy has indicated that it respects the provisions of the Law of 14 August 2021. The creditor and the debtor may no longer determine the date of receipt themselves. The payment period starts on receipt of the invoice. The aim is always to pay 30 days after the date of receipt. The processing period of the invoice shall include the verification of the performance delivered. In addition, the billed services are also aligned with the order form or contract. The reason for any late payment is usually due to problems with the delivery of the performance and/or due to incomplete or incorrect performance. Since 2018, FOD BOSA has implemented e-invoicing with most federal administrations. It will be possible to report in a uniform manner on the payment periods of the different FPS and PPS based on both the invoice date and the scanning date of incoming invoices. This report is intended to be published at regular intervals. It is my ambition to positively influence the payment periods in the following years by further expanding e-invoicing and carrying out continuous monitoring. Public procurement regulations have been adapted for a long time to the European Directive of 16 February 2011 on combating late payment in commercial transactions. Finally, I would like to refer to the answer to the written question No. 122 tabled by Mrs Houtmeyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u55	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. In any case, I am pleased that you want to take over this dossier, take it to heart and follow it systematically. At the beginning of December, my resolution on this subject was voted off in committee. The question arises as to whether the government is aware of the seriousness of this problem. You say that there is an improvement in the payment of invoices. At the FPS Finance there is an improvement of 12 percentage points. However, this means that 14 % will still be paid late. Especially in this corona crisis, it is more important than ever that these invoices are paid on time. What concerns me, however, is that you say that you do not currently have sufficient data to get a complete picture of the payments made by the federal government and that they are also available late. It seems to me necessary that there should be a systematic follow-up and publication. I therefore hope that we will be able to count on it and that you will follow it up further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u56	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I think we all have the same ambition, which is to limit the payment period. There has indeed already been improvement, but as Mrs Houtmeyers says, it is not enough and further efforts are needed. I look forward to the suggestions you will make. You also said that permanent monitoring is important. I hope it will be made public. The government must set an example and can be an incentive for others if they see that there is improvement. I therefore hope that this monitoring can be viewed online. That is not quite clear to me, so perhaps you can clarify how that will actually work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u57	It is not yet fully established exactly how this will be published, but I will certainly come back to that as soon as we have more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u58	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, a new question, a new interview from you. This time not an interview in Het Laatste Nieuws, but in Le Soir of 16 September. In this you will again make a number of interesting proposals to save money, especially on the functioning of the government. You say that savings are possible in the use of public buildings, for example in teleworking. You also refer to the new regime for imports of less expensive products (less than 22 euros). Interesting. Firstly, the Secretary of State will undoubtedly have figures. What do you hope to achieve with the telework? A number of pilot projects are under way. Would you like to roll it out wider? Do you have any estimates of the possible returns? We already have preliminary figures from the Minister of Finance on the revenue from imports of products of less than EUR 22. Perhaps you could supplement it? A more fundamental question is whether you have a benchmark regarding the functioning of the government. What's your point on the horizon? Do you compare with other governments? Which one? What is your objective? How much do you think the operation of a government can cost?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u59	Madam President, the government-decided fixed savings already provide for significant savings for the administration. It rises to 150 million euros in 2021 and to 600 million euros in 2024. That's the 0.2%. As regards teleworking, the results of a pilot project spending review show that, based on a generalisation of two days of teleworking per week and a better application of the occupancy standards of the Buildings Regié, there is a long-term annual saving of around €67 million on rents paid by the Buildings Regié for the buildings of the federal government located in Brussels. In the short term, this is against the 2028 horizon, a saving of EUR 37 million would be possible. However, the working group that conducted the spending review indicates that the realisation of this saving depends on a number of preconditions. Firstly, the need to invest in installation work in the short term, which should enable the final recurrent savings to be made. Secondly, the consistent application of the New Way of Work system and the associated new telework standard of the Buildings Regie. Thirdly, the availability of up-to-date needs programmes from the different departments. Fourthly, the availability of up-to-date and reliable information on buildings. This concerns the overview of the buildings, parkings, rent expenses and the occupation. For questions about the impact of the modified VAT system on online purchases under 22 euros, you have preliminary figures from the Minister of Finance. For more specific figures, I also refer you to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u60	Madam Secretary of State, these are interesting figures on telework. As with everything else, one must first invest in order to see a certain return. Could the spending review that has been done be delivered to Parliament so that we can follow it in more detail in the committee responsible for civil servants' cases? You indicate the figures to work towards a more efficient government: 150 million euros, 600 million euros, in the long term 24 million euros, which is already in the 0.2 % fix. I would like to ask the political question as to who is coordinating this. One must always learn lessons from the past and also be honest about what has happened. Efforts have been made in this area in the previous legislature, but they should have been more ambitious. In my analysis this was not possible because one actually needs someone who is above the trade ministers and forces them to work more efficiently. It is difficult for the Secretary of State for the Budget to impose sufficient pressure on the trade ministers to meet their targets effectively. In the past, that has certainly not been possible. Some of it worked, but it wasn't enough. I sincerely believe that the Prime Minister is best placed to assume his responsibility in such a dossier, but I do not know whether any agreements have been made. If not, that might be a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u61	Mr Loones, I need to see if that can be made public. I do not see why that should not be possible, but we need to check it out. If so, we shall certainly do so. As far as monitoring the efforts made by the various trade ministers is concerned, I do indeed assume that the Prime Minister and myself will monitor them and our colleagues will point out that it is necessary to put the budget in order. That's not a formal agreement, but that's how I feel. I will indeed perhaps discuss this further with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u62	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, this is a dossier which we have discussed several times in Parliament. We knew there would be a pension reform coming. No one got to see them, however. Even before the summer, I asked questions about this subject to the Prime Minister, saying that Mrs Lalieux is announcing something. Madam Secretary of State, in the meantime, I understand from you that you were unable to understand the file. The Minister held her cards to the chest. The Prime Minister didn't get to see anything either. In the meantime, we have read all kinds of things in the press and in the media. In fact, however, I am still not sure whether the process has been formally started within the government. Has the file been formally delivered to the numbers? Has it been calculated in the meantime? We read some amounts in the media here and there. However, are these the correct amounts? What about Mrs Lalieux's pension proposal? How serious should we take this proposal? I have the following question, particularly in relation to the cost of the proposal. It states that its proposal is budget neutral, because there will be an employment rate of 80%. That is five euros in the pocket, which someone can eat for free all week, because he or she constantly feels like he or she has won five euros for free. I have the impression that the 80% employment rate is the current government's pass-partout. Everyone spends that money all over again. Each minister has already spent that amount. Apparently, so does the Minister of Pensions. What's the deal? What about the numbers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u63	Madam President, Mr Loones, I have a very brief answer for you. As you may have read in the press, the debate on pension reform was postponed to the autumn. There is therefore no concrete pension file at government level for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u64	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, that is one of the things about communicating and raising people's expectations, but not being too serious about the job. That's really not very neat. It's not your responsibility. I will also address the Prime Minister on that point. That is now an answer to answer that shows that you cannot do your job and your services cannot do their job, because ministers prefer to communicate with the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u65	Madam Secretary of State, how shall we put the budget in order? In the past, this country has been in need of external pressure. That was the case with the introduction of the euro and the reform programme. Undoubtedly everyone here remembers the question from a socialist point of view of who Ollie Rehn, the European Commissioner who put pressure on the Member States to put their accounts in order, was. Today we find that there is less pressure, especially due to the corona crisis. A number of obligations are indeed suspended. In any case, it is not right to say that we should be more flexible. Too often we forget the condition that Europe imposes and that the sustainability of public finances is not compromised. That message also sounds very loud to Belgium, because we are facing a huge public debt here. The debate on this will certainly be on the agenda in the spring when France becomes President of the European Union, and should also be conducted here, including with the Minister of Finance. Mr Van Peteghem's questions are already on the agenda tomorrow. In any case, I would have liked to have your opinion on the subject. Madam Secretary of State, do you think we need external pressure? Or are you convinced that we will be able to achieve the goal ourselves? Do you think that we should make use of the additional flexibility that Europe may offer? It's not because it's okay that we have to follow that road. We can be a little more strict on ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u66	Mr Loones, first of all, I assume that the policy makers in the country have a sense of responsibility to carry out a proper budgetary policy. In the past, however, external pressure from Europe has proved to be a welcome aid to a Secretary of State or a Minister for the Budget. The government agreement introduces the principle of a variable fiscal effort, which allows for a form of flexibility. This variable fiscal effort depends on gross domestic product in 2019, the reference year, and the size of growth. As part of the preparation of the 2022 budget, the government will have to define the concrete implementation of the variable efforts. The aim is to control the budget in the long term, in order to be able to meet European budgetary standards if they are to be applied again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u67	Madam Secretary of State, I can imagine that you have been following the Flemish budget negotiations. You will have seen that in one night you got out of there and I can imagine that you hope to achieve the same smooth course of your budget discussion. In Flanders, N-VA, CD&V and Open Vld managed to make agreements to improve the budget by around €1 billion. I hope that all responsible ministers realise that a higher order of effort is expected at federal level. I read that some partners are already saying that they also want an exercise of EUR 1 billion at federal level. Flanders already does that on its own and there the house isn't even on fire, it just smells a little bit. However, we are already putting it out there. The federal budget is on fire and there is a tendency to throw only a glass of water over it. The effort will therefore have to be more ambitious than EUR 1 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u68	I refer again to an interview with you, in Le Soir. That's what it's about. There are different scenarios and communications about that. What is the evolution of debt? We have had this debate since the beginning of this legislature. You indicate that normal economic growth will stabilise debt levels. At other times it is said that economic growth will not be enough and that a number of reforms will also have to be implemented. Once these reforms have been implemented, the level of debt will stabilise. The International Monetary Fund states that even if reforms are implemented, debt still does not stabilise. It would be good to speak the same language about it all. At the moment, the federal government is saying something different than the European Commission and something other than the International Monetary Fund. I have a tendency to accept the international analyses on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u69	I have said several times that achieving debt stabilization and reversing debt growth is extremely important. The July Monitoring Committee's note clearly showed that on the basis of the figures available at that time, even taking into account a variable effort, there was no debt stabilisation in the period up to 2026. It goes without saying that the debt ratio and therefore the moment of debt stabilization are strongly influenced by GDP growth and government deficit figures. These figures have been adjusted in a positive way over the last few months. The update of the Monitoring Committee on 23 September 2021 and 2022 shows that the upward adjustment of economic growth and the favourable assessment of the government deficit in this period will not further increase debt compared to 2020. You can see this in the Monitoring Committee's report on pages 63 and 64. There it is said that in 2020 the debt ratio was 114.1%, for 2021 it is 113%. So that's adjusted downwards. Previously, it was assumed to rise to 114.6% in 2021. There is a slight adjustment down there, which is a good thing in itself, but that does not mean that we should not monitor that further. The debt ratio will therefore not increase further compared to 2020. Despite this positive adjustment, I remain convinced, of course, that additional efforts will be needed to achieve debt stabilization in the medium term. Of course, I'd love it if I could turn it around, go downstairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u70	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. I am glad that you are putting some strength into it and that you continue to call for additional efforts. We will undoubtedly resume this discussion when the budgets of this country are to be delivered to the European Commission. It will then make the evaluation again, etcetera, etcetera. Then I hope that the simulations of the Monitoring Committee will be confirmed, because in the past there has been some noise on the line. We'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u71	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Van Hees and Mr Hedebouw have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u72	Madam Secretary of State, in an interview in Le Soir you said that a budgetary effort of EUR 3 billion is needed. You are, of course, talking about the fixed effort of 0.2 percent, of about EUR 1 billion. In addition, €0.4% or €2 billion. Together, this is EUR 3 billion. Minister Van Peteghem spoke last week in the Seventh Day about 2.5 billion euros or the fixed effort of 0.2 % and 0.3 % variable efforts. Minister De Sutter didn't get much further than the 1.2 billion euros or the firm effort in the government agreement on Sunday. It did not express a further opinion on the matter. Madam Secretary of State, you are talking about EUR 3 billion. The key is in the coalition agreement: a third, a third, a third. What specific expenditure are you thinking of for a billion euros? What revenue do you intend to achieve in concrete terms for a billion euros? What other people do you intend to achieve for a billion euros? Together, this amounts to EUR 3 billion. With regard to the reorganisation measures, you mention in the interview the reduction in the operating costs of the public authorities that its open doors are kicking in savings on the use of state buildings by telework or that will generate billions, is only demand and taxation on internet purchases below 22 euros. How much should each of these measures yield in your calculations? I would also like to have a breakdown per measure, expressed in million euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u73	Mr Vermeersch, first of all I would like to make it clear that 0.2 percent of the extra effort is already included in the firm efforts decided by the government. In preparation for the budget conclave, the implementation of the various measures decided upon was evaluated. In the case of 0.2 % of the 0.6% quoted, the measures already decided on are existing measures. The debate on the extent and content of the additional efforts will take place around the government table. Preparing this with concrete proposals and calculations, just before the start of the conclave, will not help the discussion. For the questions on teleworking, I refer to my answers to Mr Loones' questions. Finally, I can say that every bit helps and that we have to look at a lot of different measures to achieve certain efficiency gains.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u74	Madam Secretary of State, this is a very brief answer. I remind you of previous governments when, like you, I was not yet in this House. At that time, the budgetary conclaves were already held in the summer. That's the problem with this government. We, like the people, have a number of questions about this exercise. You leave all kinds of balloons on, but no work has actually been done and the real negotiations have yet to begin. We can already ask you for a number of concrete figures on how much these proposals will bring, and you have already answered one aspect of Mr Loones' question, but I am still hungry. I'd like to see your calculations. What figures do you have for dinner? It is Parliament's right to ask for a number of measures and their calculations. What is ultimately achieved by the negotiations and what is not the subject of this discussion between the government parties, but we must be able to get a look at the preparatory work and get some figures that you already have at your disposal. You are talking about EUR 3 billion, but the figures you are giving are just a blow in the air. There is no concrete calculation behind this, yet no calculation that we can get from you. In the coming days, we will closely monitor the distribution of expenditure, revenue and other items, but perhaps we will have to turn to the press again. We regret that Members cannot obtain information on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u75	Madam Secretary of State, there is still a very important statement in the interview. In particular, you said that the budget deficit should evolve to 3% by 2024. The European Commission has frozen the budgetary rules, but it is expected that this clause will be repealed from 2023. The rules will then, perhaps in a modified form, be applicable again. Madam Secretary of State, according to European budgetary rules, Member States must keep their deficits below 3% of GDP and work towards a structural balance. The latter is particularly important for Belgium. The figures are mentioned, but we miss the important point that a structural balance must also be achieved in this country. How will you prevent Belgium from entering the European criminal court in 2023? Previous governments have managed to avoid that penitentiary a few times, with the heels over the ditch. However, will we be able to continue to do so? Secondly, do you intend to re-use the flexibility clause provided for in the Stability and Growth Pact by 2023? Will you call them again for structural reforms? Thirdly, the European Commission considers the different entities as a whole. However, despite the cooperation agreement with the regions of 2013, there is no budgetary coordination. In particular, significant deficits are expected in Wallonia. How do you assess this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u76	Madam President, Mr Vermeersch, my plea for the end of this legislature to achieve a deficit of 3% was not primarily motivated by compliance with the European budgetary objectives, although that is of course important, but by my concern about the rapid increase in public debt and the need to stabilise it. Taking into account nominal GDP growth of around 3%, it is necessary to reduce the annual deficit to 3% in order to stabilise debt. The government will take decisions on the 2022 budget in the next week. The question of whether or not we will use the flexibility clause has not yet been raised in this context. The application of the cooperation agreement for eight years shows that it is difficult to reach an agreement between the various governments on budgetary policy. As I announced when I took office, I would like to continue my efforts to deepen the dialogue between the various authorities. I am convinced that such an attitude is more likely to succeed than to express myself as Federal Secretary of State on the policy of a particular region.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u77	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, that is certainly much more moderate than Margaret Thatcher would have said. You say that the flexibility clause has not yet been discussed. However, these are all matters that will have to be quietly addressed. We are faced with a deficit that will be well above 3% by 2023-2024. Some of your coalition partners have absolutely no awareness of this, let alone any sense of reality that we need to address. So it's five to twelve. We wonder if you will be the effective hard-core aunt we need for the budget. We also wonder whether you will be able to knock on the table this autumn and bring common sense back to some of your government partners. We are staring at the coming months, because they will be crucial for the budget. You can play a role as Secretary of State. For the record, we support you. The question is how it will evolve further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u78	Thank you, Madam President. We're almost through: there are still four questions left. On the impact of the corona support measures, we had a very interesting exchange of views in committee last week: how do we deal with them in the future, how do we best map them and how can we analyse the figures in depth? I asked at the time whether it was not possible to bring the regional impact of the aid into the figures. In Flanders, more flexible corona measures will apply because vaccination rates are higher. As a result, you can expect that the regional aid measures will also vary from one region to another. I think it is important to have a hearing followed by a formal question to you. Can the results of the extended aid measures be broken down by region in order to assess their exact impact?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u79	As a result of your question, I contacted the relevant ministers, Mr Clarinval and Mr Dermagne, because I do not have that information. My colleagues are therefore aware of this and you can re-apply the question to them. They may be able to provide you with detailed information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u80	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. A proposal to amend the law that I once submitted here in Parliament remains unanswered until now. I suggested that every time the National Bank and the Federal Planning Office came out with figures, they should refine them regionally where possible. This will enable the Länder to budget better. I think this is a good time to bring out that amendment of the law again. Perhaps there is sufficient openness to deal with a proposal from the opposition after all and perhaps even to approve it. In the meantime, I will contact Ministers Dermagne and Clarinval. Hopefully they can work inspiringly for the rest of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u81	Madam President, we have already discussed this briefly. I will keep the question very brief. How stable are the numbers? We see that this is a very special period. Corona's not obvious. The predictions are not obvious either. We see that the recovery is also continuing faster than we initially expected and that there are also fewer bankruptcies at the moment. The question is whether this will continue to be the case in the future. My main question is how stable you estimate the simulations of the Monitoring Committee. After all, there is quite a difference, especially when we look at the figures from three months ago. I assume that you are budgeting with some caution and therefore also looking at the simulations with some caution. The government says, on the one hand, that Corona is not yet over and, on the other hand, that additional support measures are needed to ensure that savings are not yet covered. On the other hand, she explains that we are much better economically than initially thought. There are two storylines that collide.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u82	Madam President, Mr Loones, the slightly more favourable economic parameters estimated by the Planning Bureau at the beginning of September compared to July's estimates have initially led to the estimated balance on Entity I for 2021 being estimated at around EUR 1.8 billion better than this summer's estimates. For 2022, the balance of claims is better estimated at around EUR 1.3 billion. The exposure balance for Entity I is now estimated at a deficit of 26.5 and 16.7 billion euros or a deficit of 5.4 and 3.3% of GDP respectively for both years. Despite these improvements, this remains, of course, significant deficits facing the federal government. They highlight the need for further structural savings. In addition, it appears that the upward revision of nominal GDP together with the projected improvement in the nominal balance at the level of the joint government led to a downward trend in the debt ratio of the Monitoring Committee, which, according to the Monitoring Committee's report in June, continued to rise. The debt ratio will decrease, which I have just read out from the report "From 140.1 percent in 2020 to 113 percent in 2021 and 112.7 in 2022." As far as 2020 is concerned, this is the figure as published by the INR in April. Within a few days, the INR will present a new final figure for 2020. Here too, the government must not be blinded by this improvement. If no further structural measures are taken, the debt ratio is likely to rise again after 2022. That is why I call for caution with these figures. You said it yourself: we live in volatile times and the figures can also quickly go up or down and then have a whole impact on other economic paramatists. Inter-Kabinette working groups are currently combing through the Monitoring Committee's report to assess whether technical corrections should be made or not. As usual, the budget conclave always starts from the Montioring Committee's report and, if necessary, technical corrections are taken into account in the budget notifications and incorporated into the budget. As far as the stability of the figures is concerned, I expect the Monitoring Committee to do its best. It bases its estimates on the September Planning Bureau's economic budget and the information available at that time. Any change to a given parameter will, of course, also have an impact on the estimates. As indicated, the report of the Monitoring Committee forms the basis for the conclave. At the beginning of next year, budgetary control will follow, taking into account, inter alia, changed parameters and new estimates. I have said many times, including in the press, that by completing the variable effort provided for in the government agreement, additional structural efforts are being made to get the budget under control. However, I do not want to anticipate the conclave and hypothesize the conclave with specific demands, but I think my position is clear. During the conclave, the government will have to decide on the size of the variable effort and what measures it will take to this end.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u83	I'd like to be a fly on the wall. I think it is very special that you have repeatedly stressed that you will certainly not be making budget negotiations difficult now. We shall see what that gives in the coming weeks. But seriously now, three brief remarks. First of all, about the degree of debt. You say that there is a good chance, if there are no reforms, that debt levels will rise again. When we discussed Question 18 on the agenda, you referred to pages 63 and 64 of the Monitoring Committee, which referred earlier to stabilisation. I do not want to ask the question again, but I do want to say that it would be good if we were given transparency about conditionality in order to keep the debt under control again. Secondly, you rightly referred to the fact that the Monitoring Committee is acting best. That is what we can expect. Those are people who take their jobs seriously. But I hope that we can also assume that you approach these figures with caution and that you always bear in mind that it can also go backwards again. Especially when we see that vaccination is not yet fully controlled in a number of regions. Thirdly and finally, I believe that you were not content with the report of the Monitoring Committee. If I had been in your place, a place that couldn't be envied, by the way, and got that report, I would have cursed immediately. Because it actually puts less pressure on some parties in your government to reform. If it is said that the figures automatically go in the right direction, why the hell should they reform? That actually makes your work more difficult than that at first glance makes it easier. Anyway, we can talk about that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u84	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, a new day, a new interview, a new free idea. We have many free proposals: free pensions, free unemployment benefits, free solidarity funds to Europe and apparently also free public transport. The free policy is apparently back from never completely gone. In this context, I refer to a recent interview this weekend by the chairman of PS, Mr Paul Magnette, who is proposing to make passenger transport, i.e. the public transport of SNCB, completely free of charge. I have the same question again. I cannot imagine that responsible party chairmen and ministers are launching proposals in the press without at least having discussions with their coalition partners in the government and making sufficient budgetary analyses. However, I would like to take a look. Firstly, Mr Magnette states that it costs EUR 700 million to make passenger transport free. Is that right? Is that right? Secondly, has that been discussed within the government? Are you aware that the PS is coming up with that proposal? Thirdly, isn't that a little too much of a good thing, given that the budget doesn't seem to be looking forward to a bright future? Do you think it is responsible, according to the chairman of the PS, to put another EUR 700 million cost on the table in a weekend interview?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u85	Madam President, Mr Loones, Mr Magnette's proposal is an own initiative. It wasn't discussed within the core or the government. I have not yet received a budgetary statement from the Minister responsible. Budgetary work is accelerating with the publication of the Monitoring Committee's report. In the end, it is not in the press that the budget is being phased out. This is the purpose of the budget conclave. During that conclave, all proposals will be considered politically and budgetaryly, with a view to reaching a balanced agreement. I would like to add that I personally am not such a fan of free business.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u86	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, that is a credit to you. I want to replicate very briefly on the substance. I understand from your reply that you have not yet received a sheet on the proposal from the Minister responsible. Can I understand that you did ask for the chip and that the simulation is at least being run, so that you know exactly the budgetary impact at the start of the night of negotiations? If that has not yet happened, it may be a suggestion to do so. You could assume the sense of responsibility of your colleagues. However, it may not be unwise to double-check on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u87	A new day, a new interview and a new proposal again! There seems to be a theme or a red line between the Vivaldic colleagues. Sometimes I wonder what the hell you have left to discuss in the government, because everything has already been said in the newspapers. Unfortunately, Madam Secretary of State, I must also end with a question from your own political family. That, while so far it has been mainly the left-wing parties who have been coming up with proposals that have not been fully quantified or, I understand from your answers, you have not yet been contacted about. In this case, it concerns your Open Vld colleague Vincent Van Quickenborne, who gave a big interview this weekend in the Sunday. Liberals, you'd expect them to go to less taxes. However, Minister Van Quickenborne said that we should not go to "less" taxes, but to "at least" taxes. So we have to have at least that many taxes, and those taxes may also be a little higher. This is mainly about large companies. We know that these debates are conducted internationally, including in the OECD context, but Minister Van Quickenborne wonders why we should wait for them and says that we can just move faster. He therefore proposes to speed up this process here in Belgium. Hence my question to you, it is always the same: did the Minister speak to you about this before he gave a newspaper interview? Have budgetary simulations been made about this? Do you know what that could mean for the budget, or is it just another word in an interview? Secondly, do you think it is wise for such matters to be communicated, knowing well that the OECD is taking steps forward in this area? Do you think it would be wise for Belgium to play soloslim and carry out such a tax reform on its own, without respecting multilateral consultations on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u88	Mr Loones, as far as planning is concerned, I would advise you to put your question to the Minister responsible, namely the Minister for Finance. Both the coalition agreement and the general budget statement 2021 and the multiannual budget take account of a structural yield of EUR 300 million as from 2023. Indeed, the government advocates that the profits of multinationals in each country should be subject to at least a minimum level of taxation and that certain tax regimes should not be exempted. At the same time, the competitiveness of certain key sectors of our economy will be preserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic578x.u89	Madam Secretary of State, I therefore assume that if the OECD initiative is not operationalised before 2023, the government will do so, because it will put EUR 300 million in the multiannual budget for this purpose. We can also have the same discussion about the digitals, although they are even more unfair, because the proceeds of this tax will be used to finance the European recovery fund. In this case, you can at least keep the impression that the money is coming to the Belgian budget. The government says it wants to make a very strong commitment to a multilateral approach and to negotiate with different countries, so it is best to be consistent. However, I will certainly take up the debate with the Minister of Finance.
