ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u1	Madam President, Minister, my first question concerns the aid that would be provided to Gaza and, in particular, its practical implementation. My second question concerns the Palestinian aid organisations, and I would like to go into that in more detail. An article on Dutch development aid for the Palestinian population was published in the Dutch weekly Elsevier. It states that these means are used to ultimately sponsor militant activities and even terrorism. In particular, there is a whole trade in false writings and invoices serving the People's Front for the Liberation of Palestine. Seven Palestinian aid organisations, including the UAWC, the HWC, Al-Haq and the DCIP, received regular funding from Western Europe, while at least part of them operated as a cover for the activities of the People's Front. Belgian aid is also mentioned in the report and our country is also cited as an example of falsehood in writings. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Have you taken note of the Israeli reports which caused a great deal of swell in the Netherlands and even led to the temporary cessation of funding? With us, those reports were largely under the radar. What's your analysis of the file? Are you going to discuss this with the Netherlands and will you coordinate the dossier with the Netherlands? I would then like to talk about the non-governmental partners in our development cooperation, such as HWC and Defense for the Children Palestine. Our country caused another incident in the Security Council by giving them the right to speak. Can you give me an overview of the links that our country has with the seven organizations mentioned that are suspected in this article? How much money has flowed from our country to this organization to carry out what projects? Can you specify that? Will you carry out a more in-depth investigation into the aid we gave to the Palestinian organisations and the correct use of resources? Or do you maintain your confidence in the proper follow-up of the donations of the services of the organisations themselves? There is also a European investigation in the article. To what extent are you aware of the progress of this research and its results?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u2	Madam President, Minister, on 21 May 2021 you announced that you would release EUR 8 million for humanitarian aid for the people of Gaza. You said that the money would be earmarked for the UN Humanitarian Fund in Palestine. At the same time, you stress the need to continue the search for a lasting solution to the conflict in the Middle East. I think everyone agrees on that. There are considerable differences of opinion as to what interpretation is possible for this purpose. As you said, the cooperation programme developed with the Palestinian partner organisations, with the emphasis on employment and training in the region, should promote this solution. I have a number of questions about that. With regard to the implementation of humanitarian aid, can you give guarantees, or will you pursue the guarantees as far as possible, that the humanitarian resources spent on the UN funds and the Palestinian people will be used effectively to meet the humanitarian needs of the local population? Do you also have control mechanisms in place to monitor the aid in terms of proper use? What if that were to be abused? We must always rely on the worst case scenario when dealing with public funds. Will you be able to cancel and recover this aid immediately? Can you give us the time limits for the emergency operation? We just saw that the EUR 8 million will be included in the development budget. I don't think there's any saving on other domains. That's what we've just been able to see. Can you give me a further answer on that? The question is, in particular, which specific projects will receive EUR 8 million. Is it mainly about food aid, logistical aid, medicines, infrastructure or other aid? Finally, a question that is not insignificant, does it not involve the risk of indirect financial support to extremist Palestinian organisations, such as Hamas, through the UN fund? Hamas is the government of Gaza. What is the cooperation between the UN, the NGOs on the ground and the local Hamas Government? What's the last one's role in the relief operation? Do you consider it problematic or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u3	Madam President, Madam Minister, on Friday 21 May you announced that you would release eight million euros of humanitarian aid to the Gaza Strip. This is a positive news for the Gazans who are emerging from this new cycle of violence, which has claimed 253 victims in Gaza, including 66 children, according to a record that remains difficult to establish. This support will be very useful because, as you said, the damage is enormous. According to an assessment by the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), 6,000 people lost their homes as a result of Israeli bombings and more than 1,000 buildings were damaged. Many infrastructures have also been affected. OCHA warns, for example, of the 800,000 inhabitants, out of a total of 2 million, who today are without sustainable access to drinking water. In addition to meeting with representatives of partner organisations in order to clarify the current needs and to respond to them in the best possible way, you also indicated that these EUR 8 million would be "the starting point for a co-operation programme currently being developed focusing on employment and training in the region". My group and I share your view that you are saying that the young people in Gaza must have new perspectives. It seems to me to be the least of all things. Similarly, I also believe that the amounts thus released should not prevent us and our European partners from taking our fair share in the solution of the root causes of this conflict. Among these, the blockade. Its lifting is more necessary than ever. This was discussed yesterday in the presentation of my text. As you know, I have tabled a motion for a resolution on this. Minister, what will be the practical terms of the payment? Within which time will it be completed? Does this include support to UNRWA? If so, could you detail it? Could you clarify your intentions with regard to the employment/training cooperation plan you wish to put in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u4	Madam President, Madam Minister, after eleven days of bombing and firing missiles, the violence between Israel and Hamas was provisionally stopped on 20 May 2021. The human and material toll is enormous. 243 were killed, including 66 children, in Gaza and 12 dead, including two children, in Israel. Several hospitals have been severely damaged. Houses and apartment buildings are completely destroyed. You have already announced that you will provide humanitarian aid. You will also check the access to Gaza. You have been supported in this by the call of 26 of the 27 EU Member States for humanitarian access to Gaza. Could you give us some more information on humanitarian aid? What concrete measures will our country take? Palestine is a partner country of Belgian Development Cooperation. What measures will our country develop structurally in the longer term?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the most recent escalation between Israel and Hamas took a heavy human toll. In the Gaza Strip, 240 people were killed, including at least 60 children. On the Israeli side, 12 people died. In the Gaza Strip thousands of people became homeless. They are currently in shelters, provided by UNRWA, one of our humanitarian partners on the ground. Access to Gaza remains difficult. During the hostilities, Minister Wilmès in the EU Foreign Affairs Council has called for humanitarian access to be safeguarded, and I will continue to insist on that. Even though the border crossings are officially open, control over what enters the Gaza Strip remains unpredictable. As you know, it is occupied Palestinian territory, a priority area for Belgian humanitarian aid. I have therefore decided to release EUR 8 million in the short term for the populations affected in the occupied Palestinian area. That contribution will be allocated to the OCHA Humanitarian Fund and will be spread over two years, the first of which will be paid out in 2021. The organisations on the ground, including in Gaza, can therefore make immediate use of this, as it concerns flexible financing. On 11 May, we were able to listen to statements by representatives of the International Red Cross and OCHA on the importance of this flexible funding. In crisis situations such as Gaza, it is very important to be able to provide rapid support to help people. By giving EUR 8 million to OCHA, we can reach the people who need this help very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u6	Funding such funds does not yet mean that there is no further follow-up of how the funds are spent. The humanitarian fund in Palestine also has specific use mechanisms and built-in control mechanisms to prevent fraud and abuse. Belgium will closely monitor the use of the funds of that fund and will be informed immediately should there be any doubts as to the use of the funds. The UN Humanitarian Fund is only accessible to recognised humanitarian organisations that meet the humanitarian needs of the local population. These organisations are bound by humanitarian principles and international humanitarian law. The local authorities are not involved in any way in the decision on the allocation of those funds. Of course, the fund does not finance those authorities. There is therefore no risk of indirect financing of Hamas or companies, neither Israeli nor Palestinian. Mr. Ben Achour, with regard to funding for UNRWA, we have recently renewed our contribution to the overall resources of UNRWA. This totals EUR 21 million for the next three years. I am currently looking at what specific support Belgium can offer. We are in contact with UNRWA and other humanitarian partners in Gaza to see how we can further respond to existing needs through humanitarian programmes. The Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF), managed by OCHA, has allocated €4.5 million to support the population in the occupied Palestinian territories. The Fund can intervene anywhere in the world in the event of a humanitarian crisis. Belgium contributed EUR 17 million to CERF in 2021. UNRWA, like all other United Nations organizations, is eligible for funding from the Fund. The contribution to the humanitarian fund as well as to humanitarian projects is part of the general budget for humanitarian aid. This therefore does not entail any savings on other budget lines. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the humanitarian aspect of the Gaza crisis, we must also dare to think about how we can sustainably revive the people and the economy in Gaza. I myself will take responsibility for that. I am working on a new portfolio for future government cooperation with Palestine, which will now include Gaza. Based on the general orientations in the letter of instruction I addressed to them, Enabel is currently developing a strategy for this. My administration is expected to submit the strategy to me for validation before the summer recess. If possible, the portfolio is expected to be validated before the end of the year. The new portfolio will cover the period 2022-2026. An indicative budget of EUR 70 million is proposed. In my letter of instruction to Enabel, I asked that the general objectives of the new portfolio be focused on the opportunities for young people's future in terms of both general training and education and employment, with particular attention to the most vulnerable and a strong gender dimension. In addition, with the new programme, I want to focus on sustainability, environmentally friendly solutions, adaptation to and mitigation of climate change. The objectives are not separated. Palestine needs educated young people. It is important that they realize their potential, but also that they are concerned about sustainability. This sector can also create the necessary jobs for women and the most vulnerable young people. The new joint strategic framework of Belgian NGOs also provides for a specific strategic objective on the right to inclusive education, training and learning opportunities, thus contributing to the fight against the excessively high unemployment rate. If we really want to work on the future prospects of young people in the occupied Palestinian area, we must dare to tackle the root causes of the continuing tensions. There are three aspects to this. First, we need to lift the Israeli blockade around Gaza. Secondly, the illegal settlement policy in the West Bank must also stop. I therefore welcome the initiative launched by fellow Minister Wilmès to examine in the short term how to improve the application of the differentiation policy, so that we can make even better a distinction between Israel, on the one hand, and the settlements in the occupied Palestinian area, on the other. Thirdly, it is also important for Palestinian elections to be organised and for young people to find themselves in them. Belgium is already in consultation with the UNDP to support initiatives that focus on the inclusion of young people and women in the democratic process in the occupied Palestinian area. Finally, as regards the allegations made by some local NGOs, I can confirm that my administration was contacted by the Israeli authorities. I take these allegations very seriously. It goes without saying that under no circumstances can development cooperation funds be used for terrorist purposes or encourage violent behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u7	I have therefore asked my administration to examine with the greatest care the documents provided to us by the Israeli authorities in order to give them an appropriate response. Good coordination with other donors, in particular the EU Member States, is very important. As regards the local organisations with which our country is linked, these are four organisations that are active: Health Work Committees, a partner of the Belgian NGO Viva Salud; Bisan, a partner of the same Belgian NGO; Defense for Children Palestine, a partner of the Belgian NGO Brotherly Delen and finally the UAWC, a partner of Oxfam through humanitarian funding. In total, 6.3 million euros, spread over 5 years, will go to Belgian organisations active in Palestine. That amounts to about EUR 1.2 million on an annual basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u8	Madam Secretary, you confirm that you have been contacted by the Israeli authorities and that you have received the report. We would like to look at that report in the context of public administration. It is very important for Members of Parliament to be able to see this, because it is EUR 6 million. Are there any temporary steps taken on the basis of the report you received? It's about 1.2 million euros. Have you already contacted Brotherly Delen and Oxfam about this? Are the budgets frozen as temporary intervention? You say that you have given orders and will look together with the other European Member States at what action is being taken on them. I would have liked to have heard a term too. By when do you expect to be able to present the analysis of this report to Parliament? By when do you expect to be able to take steps? To what extent will the actors, who work with various organisations mentioned in an international report that makes the eyebrows frown, take action to prevent the transfer of funds from our taxpayers to terrorist organisations? You just talked about more budget to create support. This is, of course, a dossier where that support can be broken down in one go, when it will come to pass, and I am speaking in the conditional wisdom of committing falsehood in order to finance a terrorist organization and our authorities were informed of it by another international authority. Madam Minister, I would very much like to stress the urgency and seriousness of this dossier. You announce that the EUR 8 million that will be given to Gaza by the United Nations Fund does not pose a risk of financing terrorist organisations, but if we look at this dossier, it is very serious, very serious. I'd like you to take it with all due care. We will certainly continue to follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u9	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Humanitarian aid is, of course, necessary in certain circumstances, but I should like to warn against this. I have done so indirectly in the question. The situation that has come to light in the Netherlands means that this warning has not been taken out of the air. You say that control mechanisms were built in. The possibility of withdrawal is built in if concerns are expressed that the funds are not being used appropriately, read: if the means are used to support terrorist organisations. You'll have to forgive me, but your attitude seems a little naive. I'd like to, but who will you rely on? Will you rely on the reports that are delivered to you, with sometimes one-sided information? At present, nothing guarantees that the funds will not be channelled to Hamas or the Palestinian People's Front by fraud. This will have to prove in the foreseeable future, but in the Netherlands we can see that it is happening effectively in practice. I therefore ask you to take this dossier seriously, to look at these risks with the necessary suspicion and also to make sure that you get in touch with your Dutch colleague. If we see what has come up there, the alibi for getting humanitarian aid on the ground could indeed be abused. I would like to warn you absolutely of that. We will continue to follow this up in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u10	Madam President, I welcome the content of the Minister's responses. I agree with the objectives it sets for the population benefiting from this aid. They are obviously positive, but we must not be mistaken and we lose sight of the context in which we intervene. These objectives can only be achieved if they are accompanied by real work on this context and on the causes of the conflict. We will not be able to give opportunities to the civilian population as long as they live under occupation or blockade, and particularly with the ongoing violence in the region. Madam Minister, I encourage you to work hard with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and with the government as a whole to ensure that Belgium also has that voice. On the other hand, we know that many cooperation projects financed by Belgium have been destroyed by the Israeli army in recent years, with formal reactions and without much consequences in general. I also call on you to re-examine this and, if further destruction is to occur, to re-adapt the response that Belgium could bring to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u11	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. For us, it is very important for Belgium to make an effort to help the people in need, even in the longer term from our development cooperation. For our group, it is also important that the cause of the conflict be addressed, in particular the flagrant violation of international law and human rights by Israel, which has been frequently identified by the United Nations. We can help these people, we can build houses, we can build schools, but who will give those people perspective and a future? I think Belgium should also work on this. This can be done with the like-minded states at European level, but if that is not possible, Belgium can only take steps by strengthening its differentiation policy. We look forward to the action the government will take in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u12	I mean to pay attention to projects financed by Belgian cooperation in Gaza, but I believe that is the case all over the world. This is the case in Gaza, where there are terrorist groups, as in the Great Lakes region, where there are also militias that can sometimes, unfortunately, benefit from international assistance. I find this focus on Gaza quite surprising, especially given the situation in this region. I would remind you that this is the most densely populated region of the world, where two million people live and 80 per cent of them, thanks to humanitarian aid. There are two types of humanitarian aid: that of Hamas' Islamist network, financed by foreign powers, which makes it possible to grant goods to people in Gaza. And then there is international aid that can provide support that may be more objectified than Hamas's, which may have a potentially Islamist and political tendency. It is therefore very good news that Belgium can contribute to this aid in a massive way. The humanitarian crisis in Gaza is due to a political crisis. [[The unemployment rate is 40 per cent, and 80 per cent of people live there with global humanitarian aid.]] And we can recall this chilling figure: according to an American NGO, 50 per cent of children have no desire to live in Gaza. There is no fatality in political decisions. The blockade has lasted for more than 15 years in Gaza, which is the cause of this situation. I remember a fact. I had tried to go to Gaza, but I had been confronted with a refusal from the Israeli authorities. At the time, they had explained to me that the delivery of rice was possible, but not that of pasta. In fact, according to them, rice was not dangerous, unlike pasta. That is what this unjust blockade is about. It is therefore time to address the political causes of the blockade, which has catastrophic humanitarian consequences. Before concluding, I would like to thank you, Madam Minister, for having been able to clear a sum for the Gazans who are in dire need of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u13	Madam President, I would like to correct a few things. It is not EUR 6 million, Mrs Depoorter. Non-governmental cooperation as a whole amounts to EUR 6 million. For Viva Salud it amounts to 964.620 euros in five years, for Solsoc it amounts to 1.8 million euros over five years and for Brotherly Parts about 1.3 million euros over five years. I would like to emphasise this. We take this very seriously, by the way. The investigation is now under way. I asked for urgent action to be taken and for results to be obtained as soon as possible. Then we will be able to draw the appropriate conclusions. Working together always involves risks, but we have to protect ourselves from the fact that we don't find everyone suspicious. Our administration has a control mechanism that works well. That is something we are also monitoring. From the moment we have more clarity, we will decide with our partners and with the other EU members what consequences we will have for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u14	For Brotherly Parts, I didn't really understand how much money it was about.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u15	1.3 million euros for the entire 5 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u16	1.3 million euros, and Oxfam 1.3 million euros?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u17	Solsoc is with Brotherly Delen and receives 1.3 million euros. Viva Salud receives 660,000 euros for the entire 5 years and Oxfam does not receive programme funding for operation in Palestine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u18	That's still a lot of money.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u19	Of course. I just wanted to make it right. I don't want to minimize it at all. I think it is extremely important, which is why we will carry out this research, but I think it is important to give the right figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u20	Thank you, too, for rushing it. I would also like to get a feedback back to Parliament, because I think that is special. This has been published in the Dutch media. We have been informed of this, but our citizens have not been informed. Your services know about it and the investigation is ongoing and they are acting on it, but a little transparency in this is also very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u21	Madam Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u22	Madam Secretary, these questions are about the announcements you made regarding the covid pandemic. A first set of questions is about remdesivir. I have read and listened carefully to your announcements and explanations. You're pouring 9,000 doses to India. But that is a medicine that we are barely using here to fight COOVID-19. Moreover, as you yourself pointed out, this medicine has cost a lot of money: it is about EUR 3 million of aid to India. Last week we had a hearing in the Health Committee, where again a representative, this time from Doctors Without Borders, said that remdesivir does not work. It is a product that has come on the market as promising and much was expected of. When Minister Vandenbroucke bought it for more than EUR 4 million, there was no consensus: it was already known that the clinical studies did not match the prediction. But he has followed the advice of the EEA, which I can still understand. But soon, within the week, it turned out that this investment was far too much paid for and that this investment did not actually advance our patients. And now I'm reading that you're announcing those 9,000 doses in the press as a help to India. How did you decide to give the medicine? Did India ask for it? To what extent will you respond to the needs of the Indian patient? Did you ask for any scientific information about that? Who advised you to make that donation after all? It was a noble move, but it was no more than that. The intention is better than the outcome for the patient. I also had a question about the COVAX programme. Can you tell me how much you have entered in the budget in your capacity as Federal Minister for Development Cooperation for the various vaccines we will donate? After all, you have already announced that you will donate 4 million euros in vaccines. At a later date, however, it has also been announced that the AstraZeneca vaccines that are still being delivered will also be donated to the Third World countries. When I look at the total package of vaccines ordered, I notice that between 137 million and 181 million in vaccines will not be necessary for the Belgian population. How much of that will you spend? How much of that will you pay? You know that there is an agreement with the Länder that an 80/20 rule has been drawn up for the purchase and administration of vaccines. Do you expect the Länder to finance 20% of the aforementioned 137 or 181 million in vaccines to carry development cooperation, or will you accept that amount in your capacity as federal minister? As far as the patents are concerned, you have repeatedly stated in the press that you are personally in favour of lifting the patents. If I listen to what is being said at European level, it is clear that the government is working for more cooperation, but not for the waiver of patents. In several of our hearings it became clear that if we lift the patents today, we will have no vaccines tomorrow. Almost all the actors have told us that. The abolition of patents is a good story, but to what extent are you convinced that it will help the people of the Third World? We have not only the raw materials, but also the know-how to make the vaccines. A scaling-up within one's own company has required the approval of the EEA for months and again. Will you step down from that when you lift the patents? To what extent do you still consider a waiver of patents to be realistic? How do you feel about the second-generation vaccines? The vaccines are continuously recalibrated. Every change means a new patent. Do those new patents need to be lifted, too? I also want to look at it from a scientific point of view. We will not use AstraZeneca's vaccine here anymore. Then why is that good enough to be used in developing countries? Will additional information be provided on the risks associated with that vaccine? Can you be sure that AstraZeneca vaccine in developing countries will not be administered to patients under 40 years of age, the age limit around which the scale of risk and benefit to the patient may no longer be positive? If we give the vaccine to Africa, for example, then you should also know that the transmission of COVID-19 there is completely different from that in our country. To what extent do you support the decision to give AstraZeneca vaccines to other countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u23	Madam Minister, I also have a number of questions about the donation of vaccines to developing countries. There's a big problem with availability. We note that 32 doses per 100 people are available in high-income countries and only 0.2 in low-income countries. The EU would have a surplus of 2.7 billion doses in 2021. Our country also has a number of doses, because it ordered 30 million vaccines. France, Sweden, the US, Spain, New Zealand and Portugal also made commitments to share 5% of their vaccine deliveries with developing countries. The European Council also confirmed on 25 May that 100 million vaccine doses should be shared with developing countries by the end of 2021. We ourselves already put a dime in the bag with 150,000 AstraZeneca vaccines. You announced that more donations will follow. In addition to the problems with availability, there are also supply problems for producers. After a consultation with COVAX that I myself had, it turns out that they are the last ones in line because their price is the lowest. Other European countries, Canada and the US pay much more. Producers put them first. So there is a preferential treatment that is still reprehensible. There is also a problem with the Technology Access Pool. Voluntary sharing of technology related to vaccines shall not be followed up. They want to go to compulsory licences to increase production. Madam Minister, what strategy does Belgium have for sharing vaccine surpluses with developing countries? How will the 150,000 promised vaccines be distributed? Will this happen ad hocly or will we also go into the structural sharing of surplus vaccine? Can you also give the producers the signal that not only those who pay the most will be in charge of deliveries, but also to pay attention to what COVAX orders? It was a question of the European Council to encourage the use of voluntary and mandatory licences for patent holders for local production. What concrete steps has the Belgian Government taken in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u24	The questions were a bit similar. So I split them up. There were questions about remdesivir to India. I think everyone has been able to see that India originally had the pandemic well under control and suddenly faced a lot of infections, putting a great deal of pressure on their health system. The situation was suddenly very much to dramatic. The images of India were worse than the images of Italy we had seen at the beginning of the crisis. Belgium has therefore also decided to provide a positive response to India's request for support. Remdesivir has been authorised by the European Medicines Agency (GMA) and is also included in the clinical practical guidelines, on which our Belgian doctors also base themselves. When used during a specific period of time, it may help to relieve the pressure on hospitals. For example, the medicine is also used in Belgium today for COVID-19 patients who need extra oxygen. The aid question submitted by Inda to the EU Civil Protection Mechanism included the explicit demand for the Remdesivir medicine. The request for assistance was analysed by the planning committee and the coordination wheel of the emergency response mechanism B-FAST. As a partner department of B-FAST, the FPS Public Health indicated that it has a strategic stock of this medicine. A large part of this stock could be used to partially meet the Indian aid demand, rebuilt the national Belgian stock in accordance with the advice of the experts on the therapeutic effect and advice of the EEA. The coordination council of B-FAST subsequently decided to offer 9,000 vials of the medicine to India. The Belgian offer of 9,000 vials of Remdesivir thus responds to the Indian aid demand and was therefore quickly accepted by the Indian authorities. With regard to COVAX, Belgian development cooperation has invested EUR 4 million in a COVAX programme. Moreover, like all European countries, in the coming months, we will share the vaccines that we have in the context of international solidarity. In total, Europe intends to share 100 million doses by the end of 2021. A first donation of our country's 150,000 doses of vaccines is scheduled for July. We intend to increase the donation to a total of 4 million doses by the end of this year. These vaccines have already been purchased by the Belgian State under the European Agreement. These numbers were decided through an analysis of the Task Force Vaccination. No new costs are therefore set for the purchase of vaccines to donate. As regards the logistical costs of sharing the vaccines via COVAX, the cost is estimated at 30 cents per dose. The final cost of the donation will depend on the final, total dose volume that Belgium will have effectively shared by the end of this year. As far as the question of production capacity is concerned, I would like to say that we are all safe when everyone is safe. I hope everyone agrees with this. We can only stop the virus and also combat the various mutations if we ensure that everyone is protected. So we have every interest in getting everyone vaccinated. Supply and demand can't follow. I note that currently only 43% of total production capacity worldwide is used to produce vaccines. Similarly, the various export bans do not help to get vaccines to people in developing countries. For example, the Serum Institute of India recently announced that it will not deliver to COVAX in the coming months due to the crisis in India. As a result, the promises given to the 56 countries to obtain vaccines via COVAX will not be met. Our country therefore calls on us to continue investing in building local production capacity for both medical equipment and vaccines in Africa. We already support through active involvement in Team Europe Initiatives, which is in the scaffolding to support that local production in Africa. Then there is the platform C-TAP, which was created to encourage patent holders of vaccines and medicines to voluntarily share their licenses, technology and data for local production. This remains, of course, an important tool to ensure that sufficient vaccines are produced. We celebrated the first birthday of C-TAP last Friday. You know that there are four countries in Europe that have supported this initiative. Belgium has also signed this, and I am glad that there are more countries that want to join it. For example, Spain has recently joined this initiative as a fifth country and I continue to call on other countries to do so. Mrs Depoorter, you are concerned that the factories will produce sufficient quality vaccines. C-TAP is intended to ensure that this is done. The World Health Organisation will be the facilitator for that screening. Today's but unused factories are screened to see if they meet the quality standards, but it is not intended to be shared with anyone. The C-TAP initiative was launched last year, just to ensure that all existing plants can be used to the maximum extent possible to produce as many vaccines as possible to meet the needs. Now I come to the question of covid support abroad. Belgium has already completed four missions in 2021, including through the B-FAST mechanism: to Slovakia a medical team of four for two weeks, to Jordan a delivery of seven generators and 120 oxygen bottles, to Guinea-Conakry a delivery of 760,000 mouth masks and, finally, to India a delivery of 9,000 doses of the Remdesivir medicine. Two missions are currently underway, one for Nepal, with a delivery of 1 million surgical mouth masks and 2,000 nasal oxygen catheters, and one for Ukraine, with a delivery of 2.5 million mouth masks. Belgium also provided medical supplies to Montenegro, North Macedonia and Serbia through the EU mechanism. The reason why Belgium supports the COVAX mechanism with EUR 4 million is precisely because it is supported by a large number of countries, and not just the African countries, because vaccines have already been delivered through COVAX in more than 70 countries. COVAX will ensure worldwide distribution. I would point out that there is not only a shortage of vaccines in African countries, but also in the Balkan countries and in Latin America. COVAX is the platform that ensures that this need will be met worldwide. European Civil Protection and EU emergency aid are the main actors providing assistance from Europe, together with the Member States. On the basis of the latest report by the EU Commission, I can say the following. Nepal received assistance from five EU Member States including Belgium, in the form of oxygen bottles, concentrates, oxygen cylinders, ventilation equipment and antigen tests. Six countries have expressed interest in receiving COOVID-19 vaccines from the European Union. India requested support for the supply of liquid oxygen for medical purposes, ventilation equipment and medicines. So far, 17 EU Member States and Iceland have offered assistance. Finally, applications were received from EU neighbouring countries Serbia, Montenegro, North Macedonia and Ukraine and from 14 other countries: Armenia, Bolivia, Brazil, Ecuador, Fiji, Guinea, India, Iraq, Kosovo, Lebanon, Moldova, Nepal, Papua New Guinea and Sudan. B-FAST took action following a request for help from a national authority. At present we have not received any request from Argentina, either through the EU or through the WTO or bilaterally. I have already mentioned several issues which are also relevant to Mrs Depoorter's questions on patents. I would like to stress once again that my first priority is that everyone is safe and has access to vaccines. At the moment, I hear mainly explanations why things can't be done. But that's not how we're gonna find a solution. It is very important that enough vaccines reach the poorest countries as well. The so-called third way can be an option to achieve this goal. But I believe, above all, in dialogue to find solutions. I remain open to the various slopes that can lead to the vaccines becoming effective in those countries which now have hardly any vaccines. All ways to accelerate the vaccination campaign in third world countries should be encouraged. At the moment, Belgium supports COVAX which I have already mentioned, and we will share surplus vaccines, and we also want to help scale up global production. For this third track, it is important that vaccine developers make agreements with new producers. With the emergence of the different variants, it has already become clear that we are not yet rid of COOVID-19 in the short term. It is also important for the second generation of covid vaccines to ensure that they can be produced in a sustainable way. I therefore call on all interested parties to continue dialogue in order to find solutions in order to achieve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u25	I'll pass on the chair to Mrs. Depooster. I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u26	Madam Secretary, it was a pretty long answer, but I'm a little disappointed. Of course, it is important that we get as many vaccines as possible to as many people as possible as soon as possible. But you won't get there with the explanation you've given here. By the way, you have not given me an answer to my question about how you will deal with it to ensure that AstraZeneca is not given to patients under 40 years of age in Africa. How will you ensure that the balance between side effect and effect remains? This is very important, as is the method of administration and the on-site guidance. How will the vaccine be administered? How will you ensure that everything is done correctly? You're kind of wrapped around the discussion about the patents. I think that you spoke there in turn and that you certainly did not get a partnership within the government. You were definitely in favour of lifting the patents. You are talking about the local construction of production activity in Africa. I fully agree, provided that the pharmaceutical sector can find a partner who can produce the vaccine in a qualitative way and make agreements with it. Then that's very good. However, I note that Johnson &Johnson has searched around all production sites around the world to see where vaccines can be produced in a qualitative way, but they could hardly be found. That is a comment I would like to make. You also mentioned the quality standards of C-TAP. It is not because the factory complies with the quality standards, that the production schedule meets or that the control of the final product is satisfactory. All this needs to be mapped out. I remain convinced that when you take these steps today, you will have no answer tomorrow. You are talking about 150,000 doses already delivered via COVAX. In total, it's about 4 million vaccines, but we'll talk more about it. You know that, too. Then where are you gonna draw the line? You're saying those vaccines have already been paid for. They've probably been paid, but you're avoiding the answer to who she's going to pay in the end. Within the IMC, there is no consensus on the 80/20 rule. Who's gonna pay for those vaccines that are donated for 100 percent? Will that be 100 percent of the federal government, or will you ask the Länder for 20% of the funds? You have given a truly regrettable answer on Remdesivir, Madam Secretary. You say that it has been approved and that we have directives. The federal government bought 12,000 in November. There were 9,000 doses left when you donated them to India. So 3,000 were used, almost in clinical study mode. You're saying they're helping patients in hospitals. That's right, it needs to be hospitalized. What was the problem in India? There were no hospital beds, so one simply cannot administer it. You say it's about patients on oxygen. Remdesivir should be administered in early diagnosis and in patients who just do not need oxygen. So the help you have announced in the press is nothing. That's a drop on a hot plate. However, I must conclude by saying that it is 9 000 doses that we had left, which we did not use in the second wave, and which you gave under the guise of development cooperation, but with which you did not help patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u27	Madam Minister, the level of contagion in Argentina is problematic, but the figures across South America are dramatic. Not only in Argentina, but also in Peru, Uruguay and Paraguay, the situation is getting out of hand. I understand that efforts are being made, but the covid measures do not allow the medicines to arrive on the spot. I hope that some sort of solution will be sought. South America is often a blind spot when it comes to help. I hope that Belgium will make an extra effort anyway, and it should not only look at COVAX worldwide by providing medication or other health care to Argentina, because the need is absolutely high there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u28	I'd like to take another look at what you said because I don't agree. That is not a bad thing in itself: we are happy to live in a democratic country. However, I do not want to pass your comment on Remdesivir, as if we were offering help which is not aid. To free up hospital beds, Remdesivir certainly helps. The question came from India, and we were thanked extensively by the Indian people. I would like to stress that this is an approved and effective medicine. At a time when a country is in a serious crisis and urgently needs to free beds, it has certainly proved its worth. You also asked questions about the donations of vaccines, about the production capacity and about AstraZeneca. I want to start with that last one. In Belgium, the AstraZeneca vaccine is still being administered. So it's not like we're not gonna use it anymore. AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson are both approved and effective vaccines. In Belgium we have the luxury of using different types of vaccines. Mrs Depoorter, I do not know your ethical standards, but it would be unethical not to donate vaccines anywhere in the world, doses that we have at our disposal. We are talking about approved vaccines, the risk is small, and we are thus contributing to international solidarity. You point out that Johnson & Johnson has made an effort to look for vaccine production plants and you do not believe in the story of C-TAP: you doubt whether C-TAP will screen thoroughly enough to handle the right quality standards. That is precisely why C-TAP was created. That's exactly what I'm talking about. We continue to look for arguments to explain why something is not going to happen. We don't want to share knowledge. We can't find factories. A platform has been in place for over a year, giving sufficient guarantees to the patent holder that his knowledge will be distributed safely. They get the guarantee that there is a facilitator that ensures that there are good and quality factories that can produce. So the patent holders are already relieved of that. However, that platform is not used. We're a year after date and it's not used. I'm tired of constantly hearing what I can't do without someone coming up with an alternative and explaining what I can. We will only get out of the current crisis if everyone is entitled to a vaccine. We're having a pandemic. It's not business as usual. So if we really want to get out of it, we all have every interest in ensuring that everyone is entitled to a vaccine. So I'm tired of hearing you tell me that I'm not doing anything and that nothing's gonna happen. I've brought the pharmaceutical companies and the scientists around the table. The debate is ongoing. Even America has changed its mind. Are we here today? No. However, do we have to give up? No, no, no, no, no, I'd like to hear from you what you think is the alternative. I'd like to hear your alternative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u29	Madam Secretary, I will be happy to introduce our alternative, but I will deal with Remdesivir first. After all, we absolutely do not agree with this. Maybe you should check how many patients you have helped with your 9,000 doses of Remdesivir. How many patients have you kept alive with those 9,000 doses? If, in such a crisis, our country, with a perfectly equipped healthcare system, cannot help patients with such a specific medicine as Remdesivir, you cannot make a difference in India with a donation of EUR 3 million worthless in health terms. It would be a pleasure for you not to announce that Belgium is going to help. Thanks to India is normal, if you have nothing, you will be thanked if you get something. However, this was not correct development cooperation. It's a drug that our doctors don't use here. The doctors who work for Doctors Without Borders also make it very clear that it does not work. It is not up to us to do development cooperation in this way and certainly not to sell it. As regards AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson, you say they are approved vaccines. That is, of course, true. However, my question is whether you will ensure that they are given correctly. They must be given to people over 40 years of age. After all, you know that the African population has a very different demographic structure and that there are many more younger people. The risk that they will end up with younger people is therefore much greater and there is no follow-up. If people here are vaccinated with AstraZeneca or Johnson & Johnson, we say they should consult their GP if there are petechies or other symptoms. But that is not going to work in Africa. You'll take a risk with that. This must be supervised. That must be donated in a correct, scientific way. Your answers about the patents clearly demonstrate the emotional nature of this debate. You say you're tired of hearing what you can't do. However, it is not one patent. When a vaccine is to be counterfeited, it is about a whole series of patents. Then it's about a very difficult sharing of knowledge. You say that by finding a factory you could immediately make that vaccine. I told you that a scaling-up within our own production site takes six months. Your emotional arguments indicate that the pharmaceutical doesn't want to share knowledge. There has been an effective search for possibilities, for production sites. This is a biological product that has to comply perfectly with all the values, criteria and safety standards before it is injected. Let the sector which has the knowledge make these agreements. Why does this emotional debate need to be conducted? You're saying that America is talking about lifting the patents. Are they talking about the waiver or the lifting? We have not discussed this in this discussion either. The government should facilitate the conversations, but not take over. The government shouldn't be looking for the production sites. It's been searched. The sector should be able to make a production site up-to-date in order to ensure quality. The ISS is one of those, by the way. That's a joint venture created by the pharmaceutical company. In fact, there is already cooperation in Europe and Sanofi will produce for a colleague. That is the way forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u30	You state that with the lifting of the patents you will move forward. Every expert, every producer...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u31	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u32	Excuse me? I've listened very carefully to what you're saying. I know that the solution you bring, the slogan about lifting the patents that will help us with vaccines, is not there. You won't get ahead by lifting the patents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u33	Very briefly, because we can keep ping-ponging. Mrs Depoorter, I note that you yourself do not have a ready-made solution. You're just repeating what's going on today. I note that this is not enough today. You have to know what you want. We can't jump from C-TAP to lift patents and go back to something else. It's a technological discussion. The advantage of C-TAP is that it is not just about vaccines, but also about mouth masks, medicines, testing, data. It's a very technical discussion. If we want to improve the health of everyone in the world, we must do so. Keep saying that it is too technical and too difficult and that it has to be done on its own, I note that it simply does not happen. That's the only question I'm asking. Keep telling us to keep doing what we did doesn't work. Then my call is: what can we do? I note today that even citizens are taking initiatives to deliver vaccines. Is that an initiative for citizens? I like that, but I have always said that development cooperation is solidarity and not charity. We're in a pandemic, and if we don't do it now, when do we do it? If we continue to come up with the same arguments that we always use in a normal situation, we will not get there either. I'm standing there with an open shot. I have my own opinion, but will you tell me the alternative that we can use to get out of this? I don't hear that. It is not an emotional debate for me, it is very fundamental to me. We are in a crisis and it is my job as Minister of Development Cooperation to ensure that everyone in the world has the right to and access to a vaccine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u34	Madam President, I'm sorry, but I'm going to replicate this, because it's really emotional, Madam Secretary. You talk about everything, but you are now talking about citizens who are going to facilitate the payment of vaccines. That has absolutely nothing to do with lifting the patents. That is about the good will of the citizen, who says that if there are not enough resources, he will ensure that those resources may be put in place. Minister Vandenbroucke asked himself whether these citizens would make the vaccines in their kitchens. Probably not. The production process of these vaccines is so difficult as well as providing the raw materials for them. Sometimes you talk about a year ago. Let us not forget that the United Kingdom already had a task force vaccination a year ago, in which it was at the table with the producer and in which the entire route on raw materials, production and capacity of vaccination was agreed. Europe and enlargement Belgium have not done so, with all the consequences. We haven't been in league with the pharmaceutical sector. The pharmaceutical sector has been looking for production sites and capacity increases. Europe's dependence on Asia and other countries on raw materials for medical devices and medicines is far too great. Nothing's been done about that. What are the solutions? Looking at the raw materials and what production sites can be used and how we can make the most of the knowledge to make these raw materials vaccines. If we still want innovation, I am convinced that we must ensure that this knowledge remains effective with those who developed it, and that it can be developed through a joint venture into the creation of a vaccine, anywhere in the world, with good quality control. This must be done in an entrepreneurial environment. Your party always forgets that last element in this discussion. Can I just point out that there is still a VAT handicap for the production of mouth masks? In a local production, here in Europe, 6 percent more is paid for the mouth masks, so of course you will not find any companies willing to produce mouth masks. Madam Secretary, there's a lot of work ahead of us. With a slogan, you won't solve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u35	Madam Secretary, in a way it is the question of the chicken or the egg. As long as patents are not released, there will also be no investment in production capacity and technology transfer and no release of raw materials. You cannot answer the questions on this question in an affirmative manner. I also note that there are no other solutions. I therefore believe that we must move towards an ultimate solution in the direction in which the European Union has already argued. It can also be imposed. Licenses can be used. Maybe that'll get us there, like with the HIV virus back then. We can't deny everyone the sun. I think evolution will become visible over time, because it will not remain a theoretical discussion. It is a fact that we are under pressure, because all other countries are also entitled to vaccines. The discussion is very difficult, because the question of the chicken or the egg is always very difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u36	Madam President, we are indeed staying within the same theme, although this debate may be a little less heated. My question is about the malaria vaccine that the University of Oxford is developing. This is currently at phase 2 level, but would move quickly to phase 3 for clinical trials. You know, malaria is considered one of the main causes of child mortality in Africa. The vaccine has already been studied in 450 children aged between 5 and 17 months. To what extent do you provide support for the deployment of a malaria vaccination campaign on the African continent?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u37	Madam President, Mrs Depoter, on malaria vaccine, we are following with great interest the promising results of the malaria vaccine developed by the Jenner Institute of Oxford University. The study in Burkina Faso indeed shows an efficacy of 77% of the vaccine for a period of one year in young children. It is the first time that a malaria vaccine achieves the objectives of the World Health Organisation, which is a minimum of 75%. By comparison, a test case with another malaria vaccine had an efficacy rate of 55.8 %. The good news about the new malaria vaccine has not really penetrated through our attention to COVID-19. However, it could really be a breakthrough with a big impact on millions of people worldwide. According to the latest figures from the World Health Organisation, 229 million people were infected with the virus in 2019. Belgium relies on its international and multilateral partners for the deployment of vaccination campaigns. Malaria campaigns have been taken up on the basis of the scientific and normative work of the World Health Organisation. The Global Vaccine Alliance is responsible for linking supply and demand as well as for obtaining a fair price. The real vaccination partner of the national health ministries is Unicef. For malaria, there is specific support from the Global Fund. If the World Health Organisation confirms and recommends the effectiveness of the new malaria vaccine, we will certainly support its use. A malaria vaccination campaign targets target groups within the population on the basis of predefined criteria. The most vulnerable sections of the population appear to be those most at risk of malaria and least diagnosed or treated. The success of the future vaccination campaign depends on the success of the strategies to reach and involve these vulnerable groups. Trust in health workers, including those from their own community, is essential. Belgian policy invests in stronger health systems. Scientific partnerships, such as with universities and the Institute of Tropical Medicine, also contribute to the development of effective strategies for the national vaccination campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u38	Madam Secretary, I remember from your answer the following. If the World Health Organisation supports the recommendation or confirms the efficacy of the vaccine, you would like to take part in a malaria campaign. You do not speak out about the target group. You confine yourself to 'those citizens who have the least chance of proper diagnosis and treatment'. By that you mean children, I presume? After all, you were talking about Unicef. (Confirmation) I think that's a good idea. Child mortality must absolutely be monitored. As soon as the vaccine arrives, I want to support the campaign with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u39	Madam Minister, my question concerns the destruction of thousands of decayed vaccine doses, including in Congo, where 1.7 million AstraZeneca doses could not be used before their expiry date. Vaccines were also destroyed in other countries, including South Sudan. South Africa also decided to stop using AstraZeneca. In addition to the problem with the expired vaccines or the AstraZeneca vaccine that is no longer recognised, there are, of course, other problems that characterize Africa: technical, logistical and administrative problems, poor infrastructure, weak health systems and low vaccination readiness ensure that the available vaccines are not adequately allocated, especially in rural areas. I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you confirm how many vaccines were destroyed and returned by several African countries? Will you put the problem of logistical and technical assistance needed in the vaccination campaigns in Africa at the top of the agenda at the next European Council? Will the pandemic bring health even higher on the agenda in the dialogue with partner countries in the preparation of new cooperation programmes?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u40	I am following closely the issue of access to vaccines, as demonstrated by the previous discussion. Belgium has already paid a contribution of EUR 4 million to COVAX and will also redistribute vaccines through that mechanism. Embassies in our partner countries are also being asked to follow this closely. This concerns the capacity, the presence of vaccines and the roll-out of the vaccination campaign. In Malawi and South Sudan, several tens of thousands of doses were destroyed because they were already over the expiry date. As far as our partner countries are concerned, we have received information from the embassy in Kinshasa that 1.3 million out of 1.7 million doses delivered under COVAX were returned. The doses are sent to the surrounding countries with the help of the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisations (GAVI) and Unicef, so that no vaccines are lost. A first shipment has already arrived in Rwanda. At the same time, GAVI and its partners in the World Health Organisation and UNICEF continue to support the Ministry of Health in the continuation and acceleration of vaccinations against COVID19, with the 400,000 doses of vaccines still present in the country. At this stage, it seems crucial to emphasise communication while at the same time ensuring the preparation of vaccination sites in the different provinces of the country. For the record, the Democratic Republic of Congo continues to be entitled to the total allocation of vaccines in the COVAX programme as soon as new vaccines are available. For the logistical and organisational roll-out of vaccinations, the COVAX partner countries not only rely on their own historical experiences with massive vaccination campaigns, but also receive the support of Unicef and the World Health Organisation. National vaccination plans have already been drawn up for the first deliveries. The European Commission is focusing on two slopes. On the one hand, through the European Civil Protection Mechanism in the four pilot countries Congo, Ethiopia, Mozambique and Sudan, it supports the vaccination campaign with infrastructure, personal protective equipment and all kinds of medical materials, such as needles. On the other hand, the health budget of the Directorate-General for European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid was also increased. Finally, the COVAX programme also excluded 5% of the vaccines to be shared in order to be able to vaccinate persons in specific humanitarian situations such as migrants and war refugees, if the host countries themselves fail to do so. At the Foreign Affairs Council of 10 May 2021, the Global Health Summit and the role of Europe in the global vaccination campaign were discussed. Europe contributes significantly to global efforts in the field of vaccination, including in the area of production and through support for initiatives such as COVAX. Strengthening the health systems of partner countries has long been a priority for Belgian development cooperation. As I mentioned in my policy statement, specific attention will be given to the prevention of epidemics and pandemics.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I think it is important to define precisely the problem. It is not just about the delivery of vaccines, but also about logistical support. At the moment it is rather popular to call for the lifting of patents, but that is absolutely not the solution to the problem. There are many more efficient solutions and we must work on them. It does fit to raise the real problems on the ground. If certain African countries give their vaccines back to COVAX or vaccines are likely to lapse due to lack of technical support on the ground to roll out a vaccination campaign, then the removal of patents does not mean a solution. It is therefore a good thing that the EU, the United Kingdom and Japan have expressed doubts at the World Trade Organisation about the lifting of patents. I hope that solutions will be sought with sufficient attention to support the internal roll-out and to solve the real problems. I hope you will follow up with our Belgian embassies in the countries concerned. We can supply millions of vaccines, but if they cannot be administered because the citizens in those countries are not reached, then we cannot ban the virus from the world. That is a topical problem that needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u42	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. My reply goes in a slightly different direction, because for me it's an en-en-story. We must make every effort to save human lives, without linking ideological discussions with them, as I stress in discussions about this in my party. I support the en-en-story, where we have to work both on compulsory licences and on technical support to put health first. You said that health has always been a priority, but I still have the impression that I have been following development cooperation for a long time now, that there are times when people want to give in to fashion, where investment in partner countries is needed, when the basic needs, in particular health, agriculture and education, with which people can move forward, have not been met. If we are sufficiently united in this respect, I think we are doing well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u43	Madam President, allow me to reply to Mrs Verhaert's reply. I think the redistribution under COVAX just proves that the system is working. We have deliberately chosen to work with fragile states, and that entails risks. COVAX is a good alternative, albeit in the short term, because it is not the ultimate solution, but we must do something today, and we are doing so with COVAX. Such vaccines are redistributed if it turns out that a country is unable to administer them to the population, is precisely the ultimate proof that COVAX is following the situation well and is the right partner to offer solutions in the short term. I hope, Mrs Verhaert, that you will follow up on the situation and support COVAX, because it is too easy to break down a well-functioning initiative that ensures international solidarity in the short term, just because there would be logistical problems. By the way, COVAX switched on in the very short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u44	That's right, Madam Secretary of State. I also had a conversation with policy makers from COVAX. There is no question of not losing the vaccines. One has to have them in order to be able to divide them. COVAX has been asked to be heard in committee; I will be happy to organise it so that we can get proper information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u45	Madam Minister, you may also be concerned about the obligation to care for companies. Beyond Chocolate's voluntary initiative for the cocoa sector does not appear to be sufficient and sufficiently enforceable. Côte d'Ivoire decided to impose a levy on multinationals per tonne of cocoa to ensure a living income for cocoa farmers. As a result, however, the multinationals have turned their backs on Côte d'Ivoire, resulting in a fall in prices of 25%. I think there are several things that need to be done, and that duty of care is one of them. This requires an initiative at European level, but also at Belgian level, in my view. I therefore have the following questions. What do you think of the fall in the market price for cocoa in Côte d'Ivoire? Will you remind cocoa companies in Belgium of their commitment in Beyond Chocolate to ensure a viable income for cocoa farmers? How do you evaluate Beyond Chocolate's initiative three years later? Are you considering measures to strengthen this initiative and to increase the transparency of cocoa companies? What levers are there within Beyond Chocolate's initiative to encourage cocoa companies to stick to their commitments? Will companies that fail to comply with their commitments be excluded from the initiative? Do you consider it appropriate to initiate new voluntary sectoral initiatives on corporate social responsibility? If yes, in which sectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u46	Mrs Van Hoof, as regards your first question, in order to protect producers from the volatility of the cocoa price, the governments of Ghana and Côte d'Ivoire introduced the living income differential at the end of last year. That was an extra $400 premium to be paid on top of the market price for their cocoa. This measure was publicly supported by the European Commission and a broad group of industry stakeholders in the announcement. The recent decision by the Ivorian Conseil du Café-Cacao to reduce the farmer's price by 25% shows that the living income differential has not been successful. The Ivorian authorities themselves are causing the economic crisis as a result of the covid pandemic in their communication, and they are also asking cocoa farmers to restrict production for the time being. What is the market situation today? The ICCO indicated in the Cocoa Market Report of January 2021 that it expected an overproduction of 100,000 tonnes of cocoa for Ivorian cocoa. Meanwhile, reports also came in that the harvested beans have been lying in the cooperative's warehouses for months or even sticking to the trees. The April 2021 report provides more figures on the evolution of demand and supply. The cocoa supply in the Ivorian ports reached 1.91 million tonnes or 7% more than in the same period last year. 849 000 tonnes of cocoa were produced in Ghana, an increase of 19.6 % compared to last year. Supply rose sharply, while demand makes the reverse move. The European market, the world's largest consumer and exporter of chocolate, saw its grinding down to 357,815 tonnes in the first quarter, compared to 368,934 tonnes a year earlier. That is a possible explanation for the decision of the Ivorian authorities: rather sell cocoa at a lower price than sell nothing at all. We all know that low prices are a structural problem in the cocoa sector. The ICCO has repeatedly underlined this. In order to remedy this, demand and supply must be addressed, but all negative and social external factors must also be taken into account in the international price. This requires more consultation and dialogue between the different partners in the cocoa chain. As far as your second question is concerned, all the companies and organisations that are part of Beyond Chocolate have committed themselves to achieving the final objectives of the partnership, in particular to put an end to deforestation and enable a viable income for cocoa producers and their families by 2030 at the latest. Beyond Chocolate provides a platform in this respect to encourage consultation, dialogue and accountability between the different partners, including governments. The Belgian government is represented on the steering committee of the initiative through its administration. Through Beyond Chocolate I will encourage additional efforts. In December 2020, I called on the signatories to continue actively contributing to the initiative and to continue reporting. Transparent reporting is an integral part of their commitment. The second monitoring cycle started at the end of April and the next annual report will be published at the end of September. I expect this second exercise to take additional steps in the area of transparency. The Beyond Chocolate Partnership is committed to all stakeholders in the cocoa chain, including civil society organisations, for very ambitious goals, i.e. living incomes and zero-deforestation by 2030. Belgium is taking the lead in this respect in Europe. More than 50 companies and organisations have joined the partnership, which covers around 90% of the Belgian chocolate sector. With this we also give ourselves the chance to generate scale impact and polish the blazing of Belgian chocolate. Beyond Chocolate provides a renewed dynamic in the chocolate market. In Belgium over the last two years more than five new chocolate references have been published that set the bar much higher in the store shelves and more are coming. There are currently eight pilot projects in Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana which will each bring a new sustainable chocolate product to the Belgian market. However, it is even more important to recognise the points for improvement. For example, the annual report of 2020 showed that available data on the income gap for cocoa growers are still limited. The monitoring and assessment of progress in ensuring a living income therefore requires further efforts. I want to make it clear that it is my priority number one that we can extend this programme. An external evaluation will therefore also be carried out in 2021 to allow the programme to be adapted where necessary. By bringing all parties together, Beyond Chocolate enables them to answer to each other. At present, it has not become necessary to address a partner individually. The Beyond Chocolate Steering Committee, in which all stakeholders are represented, can make the decision to exclude a partner if necessary. Beyond Chocolate is an example of how government and private sector can pull the same weight as full partners, but it also has its limits as a voluntary initiative. Companies in the cocoa sector, recently followed by a coalition of Belgian companies, call for a legal framework on care obligations to be established. Together with Minister Dermagne, I already responded positively to this call. Legislation is part of the instruments at the disposal of a government to create a favourable context for investment in social and sustainable development. In this respect, a legislative framework and voluntary initiatives are complementary. A legislative framework sets a lower limit, a voluntary initiative encourages the race to the top. Fifth, the review of Beyond Chocolate will also provide insight into the possibilities for other sectors. The Beyond Food note provides the basis for a broader, inclusive strategy to address sustainable trade and supply chains. A number of sectors are eligible: bananas, coffee, palm oil, soya. Such initiatives are also being developed in our neighbouring countries. The companies are also asking parties. It helps them to raise the bar together and prepares for future legislation on care obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u47	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. It seems clear to me that we have to wait for the evaluation before we adjust. I agree with you that it is an en-en-story, but the duty of care seems necessary to me. This is the only way to create a level playing field for all companies. Otherwise, companies that do not participate may ask for a lower price for their product. It is better to work around such a voluntary initiative through awareness-raising actions, even though it is difficult to monitor and the result is uncertain. It is a good thing that we started with the chocolate sector at the time. Now we can act as initiators in other sectors as long as there is no duty of care. You have already indicated that a legal framework provides a lower limit, but the race to the top must also come from elsewhere. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u48	Madam Minister, you are undoubtedly asking for a global social protection fund to be set up in view of the fact that 55% of the world's population is not covered by social protection and that 71% is not sufficiently protected. Social protection funds in Belgian development cooperation fell systematically from 8.8 million euros to 1.9 million euros between 2009 and 2018. So we're gonna have to step up. Worldwide, only USD 1.89 billion was spent on development cooperation out of a total of USD 153 billion. Coordinating, integrating and pooling is essential in order to strengthen the right to social protection throughout the world. The use of such a fund is therefore important. We must also ensure that the countries concerned release their own resources and manage public finances properly. Madam Secretary, can you give us an update? What concrete steps have you taken at bilateral level? What contribution can our country make to the discussion of a global fund? Will you also focus on mobilising own resources in partner countries? What other initiatives have you taken with regard to the ratification of the Convention on minimum social security standards, No. 102 of the ILO?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the question of the preparation of the Human Rights Council falls within the competence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I therefore invite the questioner to speak to Ms Wilmès for more information on this subject. With regard to the issue of social protection, we must build on the commitments of the international community. Social protection, such as poverty eradication and universal health coverage, is one of the sustainable development goals to be achieved by 2030. This is also the scope of ILO Recommendation 202, adopted unanimously by the States and the social partners. It is also an important part of all international human rights legislation. I would add that the pandemic has shown that social protection is not a luxury, nor a waste. On the contrary, it is an indispensable instrument to guarantee people's right and enable them to resist shocks such as a pandemic. Yet today, we are far from achieving this goal. Today 55% of the world's population does not have access to any form of social protection. The pandemic is making the situation worse for us. According to the World Bank, 100 million more people have fallen into extreme poverty by 2020 and many more people risk the same fate in 2021. Faced with this unacceptable situation, we want to take action and the Belgian corporation is currently preparing a thematic portfolio on our social protection in the Great Lakes region. The emphasis will be on decent work and social protection. I entrusted Enabel with the task of paying attention to institutional aspects, for example by focusing on strengthening public institutions, capacity development, contributing to the development of a regulatory framework and its compliance as well as the translation of ILO conventions into national legislation and their applications. ILO Convention 102 and Recommendation 202 are of course at the heart of that process. I also recall that Enabel and BELINCOSOC, the international cooperation on social protection, concluded a framework agreement in June 2016 to join forces and to enable the joint development of new initiatives in the field of technical cooperation and social protection. Within the framework of the Common Strategic Framework Wonderful Work of non-governmental cooperation actors, a series of initiatives has been taken by their partners and the networks Right to Social Protection of Convention 102, an important point in the entire current programmes. The ratification and application of the Convention is a priority for these multi-actor networks, in which trade unions, sickness funds and youth and women's movements join forces. However, Belgian efforts cannot be enough. The issue must be at the heart of the international political agenda. In that sense, Olivier De Sniper's report is welcome. On the basis of this very concrete proposal, the international debate can and must be relaunched. That's what we want. After the Human Rights Council in June 2021, I will consider how we can actively plead for the benefit of the Fund. Until then, it is difficult to talk about possible contributions, as the structure of the fund and the needs of the funding are not yet known. In our call for the fund, the mobilisation of own resources in the countries concerned and the sound management of public finances will indeed play a central role, all the more so because the latter is one of the main objectives of the fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u50	Minister, we share your passion and interest in the subject. We will have to discuss this issue in the near future as we have tabled a text on the subject. There is a figure to be linked to that of the 55 per cent of people without social protection: if one takes into account the percentage of population that has life-long coverage, one falls to 29 per cent. Less than a third of the population is covered from birth to death. That is all about the work that needs to be done. On our scale, with our resources and under the leadership of the minister, we can take steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u51	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I am sure you will press for a global social protection fund. We must wait for the consultations in the Human Rights Council in June on this matter, and then examine what actions we can take. I also refer to my resolution adopted in the previous legislature, in which I advocate that the administration of Belgian development cooperation should draw up a strategy paper. I'm still in happy expectation of such a note. There was once a draft, which should not be called a strategic note; the minister then had other priorities, in particular on digitisation and private sector development. Perhaps now is the time to discuss with colleagues in Parliament the memorandum on social protection, which is important for Belgian development cooperation, and to look at what action we can take. That is my specific question, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u52	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Lacroix converted 55018218C into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u53	Colleagues, many services of my administration are mobilized to find what we can do at Belgian level to help the people in Goma and to demonstrate our solidarity in this crisis situation. Our embassy in Kinshasa also briefed us in real time on developments on the ground and sent a diplomat to the field. In order to respond quickly to this kind of sudden crisis, Belgium favours the financing of flexible humanitarian funds that allow a rapid response. Among these funds, we support the Humanitarian Fund in DRC-OCHA (EUR 8.5 million in 2021 and EUR 8.5 million in 2022). The Fund is ready to respond to the results of needs analyses currently under way by humanitarian actors. Minister Dedonder is also planning a humanitarian flight organized by the Ministry of Defence. I can also inform you that, thanks to the funding of a structural support project of the Goma Volcanological Observatory, emergency aid has been quickly set up and is currently under way. Indeed, the Goma Volcanological Observatory receives support under the AfricaMuseum's five-year programme through a project called HARISSA. The HARISSA project team started an emergency mission in Goma on 30 May. The mission of this team is to provide specific support on the ground to its three partners: the Vulcanological Observatory of Goma, the Geographical Institute of Congo and civil protection. The planned activities include strengthening the scientific analysis capabilities of the Goma Vulcanological Observatory to monitor the situation, to support civil protection in the preparation and implementation of the contingency plan and to assist in the assessment of the damage. The situation around the volcano is still very uncertain. The work of measuring and analysing data is essential, for example to determine when residents can safely return to the city. At the moment, I do not foresee any additional funding for humanitarian aid, as we rely on the flexibility of our current funding mentioned above. I am pleased to see that the flexibility of our funding enables us to make a rapid and concrete contribution to the response of this sudden crisis affecting the Congolese people, whose resilience has already been severely tested. As far as volcano monitoring and evaluation by the three Belgian seismologists who have been broadcast are concerned, we do not yet have any information on the results of the mission that has just begun.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u54	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. It is clear that the case is closely monitored by various bodies, including humanitarian agencies, through the volcano monitoring of Belgian seismologists and through Minister Dedonder. As an important partner country, Belgium has an important role to play, and we must follow it closely. Thanks for the update.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u55	Madam Secretary, the United Kingdom is announcing enormous savings in terms of sexual and reproductive health within its development budget. £131 million, i.e. 85%, would be cut at UNFPA, the United Nations fund dedicated to sexual and reproductive health. UNAIDS would save 12.5 million pounds or 83%, and 72 million pounds or more than 80 million euros for IPPF, the umbrella organisation of NGOs offering sexual and reproductive services in 142 countries around the world. The UK was the second largest donor in absolute terms for sexual and reproductive health in 2019. So there is a fear of a huge impact. UNFPA says the withdrawn budget could have helped to prevent maternal and child mortality, 14.6 million unwanted pregnancies and 4.3 million unsafe abortions. In addition, research shows that in a number of other countries COOVID-19 has increased gender-based violence, social inequality and reduced access to contraception. Some organisations now fear that the impact could be particularly large, even greater than the impact of President Trump's Global Gag Rule a few years ago, prohibiting US funding for organizations working on family planning, contraception and safe abortion. Belgium also supports UNFPA. What is the risk of this saving affecting the functioning of that organisation? Is there an impact expected with other partner organisations of Belgian development cooperation? Belgium has always played a leading role in She Decides, the initiative launched in response to the Global Gag Rule. Will our country now speak out against the savings of the United Kingdom? Are there any signs that other donors will also make savings? What impact does this have on the functioning of the reproductive health programme and the realisation of the SDGs?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u56	Mrs Jiroflée, I am glad that you have managed to be present in committee. I know that as a Member of Parliament we must be very flexible when we answer questions and we must move from one committee to another. The combination of members who go from one committee to another, members who are digitally present and members who are in the car is very special. Times are changing. The announced savings of the United Kingdom to reduce their ODA from 0,7 to 0,5% of GNI have a major impact on multilateral health partner organisations, in particular UNFPA and UNAIDS. On the other hand, the World Health Organisation and the Global Fund to fight Aids, Tuberculosis and Malaria would not be affected by the savings. The impact on the UNFPA Supplies Partnership, which delivers, among other things, contraceptives and medicines, is significant with 70% savings on the operational budget. The savings require the organisation to immediately delete certain products. Several scenarios are foreseen to reduce the supply of products and services to the mainly African partner countries. Belgium continues to support the voice of young women in the world, especially adolescents in low-income countries. Belgium also finances the UNFPA Supplies Partnership with 2 million euros in 2021 and remains a donor to the She Decides Secretariat. There is a broad European indignation about the impact of British savings, which will certainly be discussed in international fora. Belgium is a member of the coalition Bodily Autonomy and can express itself within this group of the wider Generation Equality Forum. Belgium is part of a group of European like-minded Member States leading the promotion and support of sexual and reproductive health and rights as an essential step towards achieving the SDGs. The United Kingdom is the only donor country in Europe to announce savings of this magnitude. Internationally, the budget for health has been raised since the appointment of the new US administration, although this is mainly focused on the covid pandemic. This has already led to a general decline in progress towards the SDGs, including in the socio-economic field, but the savings of the United Kingdom in terms of health indicators may be even greater.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic499x.u57	Madam Secretary, unfortunately this is very bad news. I hope that Belgium will join with the indignation shown by the European countries and that we will make it very clear that this cannot be done for us. If we avoid the great solidarity with these programmes from Europe, that is a very unfortunate thing. I am sure that you will make our country's voice heard in order to respond.
