ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u1	Madam President, Minister, at the end of July last year, this question is so old, it has reached our footage of abuses in the Hoornweer slaughterhouse in Torhout. I would like to show some fragments from the various video clips that reached us. I would like to warn you that the footage is not really suitable for sensitive people. Mr Minister, the sinking pit for pigs does not work well in Hoornweer slaughterhouse, which causes pigs to be plucked unsed and sometimes even consciously thrown into boiling water. The slaughterhouse also applies particularly poorly the hygiene measures and the BFSA-Brugge appears to tolerate these abuses. Earlier last summer, the same slaughterhouse also attracted negative interest. Frequent even sick animals are slaughtered, with for example an open abdominal fracture or a bleeding prolapse. Even pregnant sows are slaughtered, which is equally forbidden. The carcasses are then placed on wooden palettes or fell from hooks on the ground, which is also not allowed. Employees, drunk or not, would even urinate in cold cells where the carcasses are hung. The chilling cells are then cleaned with a high pressure syringe while the carcases are still hanging in the cooler. These abuses cannot be tolerated, of course. Are you aware of these abuses? Are you aware that the BFSA-Brugge appears to tolerate these abuses? Are you aware that these abuses constitute a serious threat to public health and animal welfare? What steps will you take to remedy these abuses? What investigations will you have on these abuses? Will you have the Hoornweer slaughterhouse shut down from Torhout until further notice? Will you hold those responsible liable for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u2	(...). The situations in question are simply inadmissible. However, they are very exceptional and can therefore be framed. In 2018, it was indeed found that the animals were not sufficiently intoxicated from the anaesthetic well. It was a small minority of the animals. The slaughterhouse has made the necessary investments to solve the problem. The cages in which the gas inflammation took place were eventually even replaced. Since the replacement of the cages, the gas inflammation has progressed well. If it turns out to be insufficient for some animals, they are additionally intoxicated with electric stun rods. Pigs regain consciousness and come in boiling water. The water in the boiler is around 60 degrees Celsius. Therefore, the argument that pigs enter boiling water is unjustified, but it remains undesirable in terms of animal welfare. The regaining of consciousness is a problem that may arise if a pig was correctly intoxicated, but was not properly bled. The slaughterhouse shall acknowledge that finding. For this reason, an additional staff member is employed on the route between the stabbing place and the boiler for immersion. It has the necessary capacities and resources to avoid such problems. As regards the slaughter of sick and pregnant animals, the procedure in the slaughterhouse provides that animals which cannot move painlessly remain on the means of transport until they have been seen by the veterinarian-inspector. If the animal is not allowed to enter the food chain, it shall immediately be electrically intoxicated and killed, after which it shall be removed to the rendering plant. If the animal is allowed to enter the food chain, if no general symptoms of disease are observed, then it is also intoxicated on the means of transport and is given an ear clip. The earclip serves as an indication for the post-mortem inspector to investigate the animal further. Then it is transported to the slaughter line and inserted at the bleeding site to follow the normal removal process. An animal with an open abdominal fracture was never noticed. Such an animal would not be allowed to be slaughtered. Animals with a closed abdomen or a bleeding prolapse are not necessarily sick. It is up to the inspector to check on a case-by-case basis whether the animals are ill or not. On the basis of his decision, the procedure as I have just described is followed. The slaughter of pregnant animals is not prohibited until further notice. However, there is a ban on the transport of animals in the last 10% of their gestation period. Furthermore, no wooden pallets have been used in the slaughterhouse for a long time. They were all replaced by plastic pallets. For carcasses that would fall on the floor, there are specific corrective actions, such as the use of a plastic pallet for internal transport and the additional burning of the carcass. That procedure shall be correctly applied. The urinating in the cooling cells would have been determined once by an examiner. This was also examined after late notification to the LCE. In the end, that investigation was closed because of insufficient reliable findings. The cleaning of parts of the cooling cells with a high pressure syringe, while another part of the same cooling cell still contains carcasses, which is an infringement, was indeed found several times. For this purpose, the services of the BFSA have always taken appropriate measures. However, the most recent infringement in this area dates back a year. As for your second question, both a MET veterinary surgeon and an inspector or inspector of the BFSA sign a charter in which they commit to be loyal to their employer, being the BFSA, and carry out the checks in an objective, qualitative and independent manner. terms such as integrity and professionalism are also reflected in the values of importance for the agency. In addition, each member of staff of the Agency shall be evaluated annually. The BFSA Bruges and the entire agency therefore strongly condemn such abuses. In the event of its adoption, the Agency shall act impartially against it. With regard to your third question, I am sure that if such abuses occur, they pose a serious threat to public health. When establishing such facts in any slaughterhouse or operator, the Agency will act correctly and fairly. As for your fourth question, since the creation of the BFSA, the Agency has taken action to remedy such abuses. For example, annual checks are planned on the basis of a checklist. The assessments shall be carried out on the basis of weighing. The weighting shall determine the outcome of the check and any measure to be applied. There are also checks in addition to that inspection plan. The ad hoc assessment shall take account of the possible repeated nature, seriousness and risk of the infringement. She briefly carried out 28 checks in 2018, four of which were assessed as unfavourable, resulting in three warnings and a pro justitia. In 2019, it carried out 34 audits, five of which were assessed as unfavourable, resulting in three warnings and a projustitia. It contains all the elements of two unfavorable controls. In 2020, it carried out 22 checks until 6 August, three of which were assessed unfavourablely, resulting in three warnings. Fifthly, given the favourable results of the recent inspection, the framework of alleged abuses and the operator's good intentions, the closure of the slaughterhouse is not the issue. If new infringements are identified in the future, the issue will be reviewed. Sixthly, each time an infringement is detected, the responsible person will be held liable and there will be proper action, first and foremost in relation to the operators with a warning, projustias, corrective and preventive measures to comply with even temporary closure and withdrawal of admission or recognition. The necessary measures shall also be taken if the Agency detects infringements of its own personnel or MET veterinary surgeons. For example, the framework agreement with the MET veterinary surgeon referred to in the first question was recently terminated due to a breach of confidentiality of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. You've just been able to see the footage yourself. They say over a thousand words. Perhaps the situation in the slaughterhouse in question has improved in the meantime. I do not wish to comment on that at the moment. We will also have to check whether this is indeed the case. What you saw on the footage is just the tip of the iceberg. I can only insist that the situation in slaughterhouses be monitored very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament 55009737C by Mrs Dierick has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u5	Mr Minister, this question was tabled a while ago. The Dutch supermarkets started removing sesame products from their store shelves on 13 October. In other EU countries, supermarkets also extracted sesame products from the market. Also with us wholesaler NDFC took granola and sesame seeds from the racks in consultation with BFSA and also recalled the products from the consumers. The products contain too high a residue level of plant protection products on sesame seeds, in particular ethylene oxide. The contaminated lots were imported into Belgium and then went to 24 other countries. Companies that have processed sesame seed from India should therefore check whether there are any remains of ethylene oxide in it. The BFSA mentioned earlier that the products can be traced back to one operator who imported sesame seeds from India. After an analysis it was found that an excess residue of ethylene oxide could be established. The stock that was still in the producer's possession was immediately blocked. The Agency also immediately started tracing the products already sent to customers. It also follows closely the checks carried out at the farms concerned, as it is said, and actively samples them itself. What is the state of the tracing of the sesame products? To what extent were the products recalled and blocked effectively found to be too high an ethylene oxide content? To what extent is the consumption of the blocked and recalled products harmful to health? What follow-up will be given with regard to the owner who brought these contaminated products to our country? What estimated cost does this operation entail for the BFSA and the damaged producers and customers? Are measures being taken against the owner who brought the contaminated goods to Belgium in order to prevent similar contaminated goods from being imported in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u6	Mr De Caluwé, Mrs Thibaut, all Member States, including Belgium, have been facing very many exceedances of the maximum residue limits or MRL for ethylene oxide in sesame seeds from India and in products derived therefrom since the beginning of August. From the start of the incident many batches of sesame seeds and derived products were withdrawn from the market. When they posed a risk to the health of consumers, they were also recalled from the consumer. The BFSA was informed by an operator on 28 August 2020 about the presence of 30.1 milligrams of ethylene oxide per kilogram in two batches of sesame seeds from India. Since this first notification, many other batches of sesame seeds from India, pure or in mixture with other seeds, have been analysed. The results of that analysis were higher than the MRL, up to 186 milligrams per kilogram. The non-compliant parties came from three Indian exporters. The non-compliant sesame seed, still in stock with operators, was seized to avoid its use. In addition, several finished products, prepared on the basis of contaminated sesame seeds, such as mixtures of flour, bread, were withdrawn from the market and recalled. A preventive sale of all lots of sesame seeds originating from the Indian exporters concerned was imposed on the main importer in Belgium. This importer shall also analyse each new batch before it is placed on the market. Samples were also taken and analysed at the other importers of Indian sesame seeds. Since sesame seeds are used in small quantities in a wide range of products, there is a wide spread and it is not possible to provide a clear answer on the exact number of products concerned. Much of the sesame seed is processed into a seed mix for industry, bakeries and the final consumer. In addition, there are also various derivatives such as sesame paste and sesame oil, as well as various applications such as finishing on finished products. When monitoring for non-compliant results leads to products containing sesame seeds, a risk analysis is always conducted by AFSCA. This analysis takes into account toxicological data for ethylene oxide, consumption data for products in which sesame seeds have been used, and the percentage of sesame seeds in these products. If this analysis shows that there is no risk to the consumer, a withdrawal from the market is required. If there is a risk, a reminder should be implemented with a press release to consumers. As of 5 January 2021, 106 press releases had been issued, several of which could be recalled by press release. This approach applies to products on the Belgian market. For products distributed abroad, the AFSCA notified the authorities concerned via the EU Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed. Belgium sent 35 notifications to other Member States and received 157 notifications. These notifications often involved different batches and/or different products. Notifications that are currently still received by AFSCA mainly concern products manufactured abroad with contaminated sesame. There is no overview of ongoing investigations in the other Member States. In addition, the Commission will propose in the short term the implementation of enhanced European controls on the import of sesame seeds from India. Exceedances were found for both organic and non-organic sesame seeds. The AFSCA does not distinguish between controls and takes measures, if necessary, in the context of food safety and consumer protection. But the control of the organic label does not fall within its competence. DG Agri of the European Commission has initiated an investigation into this specific problem and has asked the competent authorities of the Member States to carry out further research. Control of bio-products is a regional competence. Finally, there is currently no indication that there are similar problems with other imported cereals or spices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u7	Minister, your answer reassures me above all because the BFSA reacted very quickly. This is important for public health and it shows that the Agency is doing a good job. I hope that in future people will react in the same way to similar situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u8	Minister, I would like to join the congratulations to the AFSCA on its alert work in controlling sesame seeds and ethylene oxide. We can imagine the number of products involved. The task is enormous and represents a real work of ant. Therefore, we can only argue for a European control of the arrival of sesame seeds in the Union. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u9	Madam President, Minister, I have a few questions about our approach to the covid mink farms. I tabled the first question in November in the context of the Danish Government's decision to intervene in the farms. It is known that infection in these animals can also cause the virus to mutate. As a result, there is a risk that vaccines will become less effective in the future or that their effects will even be directly undermined. My second question was tabled when the Swedish Government also decided to stop the cultivation of mink. You will no doubt know that there is already a great deal of support in Flanders for the closure of these farms. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, how do we follow up today on whether there are infections in the farms? Do we have a plan in case any infections are detected? Have there been any tests? If so, how many? Are both workers and animals being tested? Is it not wise to speed up the final closure of mink farms within the framework of covid, as there is already support for this in the population? In this way we can protect public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u10	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, as regards your first question, the BFSA has succeeded the eight active mink companies in our country, all located in Flanders, in the period from September to December 2020. In December, these companies reported to the BFSA that they no longer keep animals. I cannot tell you at the moment whether this halt is temporary or whether the companies will keep mink again in the future. As you will no doubt know, Flanders, which is responsible for this matter, prohibits mink farming from December 2023. In reply to your second question, there are no infections with SARS-CoV-2 virus in mink in our country. Finally, as regards the number of checks, the BFSA has monitored the eight active mink companies on a weekly basis. A total of about 900 animals were tested and found to be negative for SARS-CoV-2 virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u11	Minister, something is not quite clear to me. On the one hand, you say that 900 animals have been tested and found negative, and on the other hand you say that there are no more animals for the time being. Did I misunderstand that? Because of covid, mink farms have voluntarily suspended their activities, but which animals have been tested and found to be negative?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u12	Ma'am, the animals that were tested were those that were present. They were sold and killed according to the procedures. But there is no new breeding. In other words, the live animals were tested and, once sold, no other mink was purchased to rear it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u13	Minister, that is clear. For me, that's new information. In the past, when animals were still kept, correct testing was carried out and the animals were found to be negative. Now the breeding of the animals has stopped, which gives me great pleasure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u14	Question No 55010938C by Mrs Len Dierick is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u15	Minister, located on the zoning of Aubange for many years, Ecore specializes in metal recycling. It has a machine-gun crusher that causes significant inconvenience to the residents. The latter complain of noise, olfactory, visual and atmospheric pollution related to the activity of the machine gun mill (presence of fine blackish metal particles covering garden furniture, window supports and vegetables). I am reminded that the Broch, a stream that takes its source a little upstream on the zoning of Aubange, is in a worrying state and that an association of citizens has commissioned a water analysis by a licensed company that took a sample dated 23 September 2020. The results of this analysis are alarming in more than one way: massive presence of aluminum, more than 100 times the threshold value, high presence of barium, chromium, nickel, copper, lead and zinc (2 to 30 times the threshold value). The phenol concentration is 40 times higher than the threshold value and the threshold values for polychlorinated biphenyls are also exceeded. Finally, six out of sixteen parameters for polycyclic hydrocarbons also exceed the threshold values. Minister, are you aware of this study? AFSCA recently carried out a sampling and analysis plan of food and feed around the site of a machine-gun mill located in Courcelles, will you order the same study for the site around the mill in Aubange?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u16	Madam President, first and foremost, I would like to highlight the excellent cooperation between the AFSCA and the Walloon Region in this area. Each acts within the framework of its competencies and the AFSCA provides the Region with its expertise. I would point out that the AFSCA is not competent with regard to the food production of individuals, for example vegetable gardens. Following the notification of the pollution around the machine-gun mill site in Courcelles, SPW transmitted a list of other sites of machine-gun mills in Wallonia. Based on this information, AFSCA followed the same approach in Aubange as for the mill site in Courcelles. It sampled the plots of the operators, the farmers located within a radius of two kilometres around the machine-gun grinder. The results of dioxin and PCB analyses of hay and alfalfa samples taken from the two operators present in this area were consistent with the legal maximum levels. As for the issue of Broch Creek pollution, this is a matter for the Regions, which are the only ones with jurisdiction over the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u17	Minister, I take note of the actions you have communicated. I will invite you, during your next visit to Luxembourg, to visit on the spot. It's a matter of concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u18	Madam President, Minister, my question has been put a while ago and does not seem very relevant anymore, but I would like to ask them, because the parallel with the corona virus is quite striking. Since 15 November we have to store our poultry because there was a case of avian influenza in Ostend. A virus that breaks out and then shields animals and keeps them apart, so they can't get in touch, that looks like a lockdown, but for poultry. With the coronavirus, everything has been done to find a vaccine very quickly and to vaccinate very widely. However, this does not happen for our poultry, in relation to the avian influenza virus. Actually, it could be that we're protecting our poultry with a vaccine. They can get this through drinking water, for example. The fact that this does not happen seems to have an economic reason. After all, a vaccinated chicken would have a less high health status. Now the chickens are being shielded. I do not know if you have chickens yourself, Minister, but that makes my chickens quite aggressive. It's the same with other chickens. They're starting to attack each other. They're getting aggressive. Their resistance is weakening, too. Mr Minister, are we aware at European level that, after the vaccine for humans, we are not better at vaccinating our chickens? Will we always go back to a lockdown for chickens in the future, while we have the knowledge and knowledge to vaccinate them as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u19	In the absence of Ms Leen Dierick, her questions Nos 55011210C and 55012515C were withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u20	Madam President, it is a little difficult to answer only Mrs Creemers' question. After all, I have prepared an answer for the three questions. My answer will therefore contain some elements of the answer to Mrs Dierick's questions. Mrs Creemers, as far as sanitary measures are concerned, the BFSA imposes stringent biosecurity measures on all poultry farms throughout the year to help prevent the introduction of the diseases into the stables. This policy to set the bar high outside the avian flu season also means that our country is well equipped to tackle the avian flu problem, provided that all poultry farmers strictly comply with the measures. At the same time, it means that the basic measures need to be adapted little when the avian flu effectively threatens our country. Since the start of the current problem, I have merely required the rearing of poultry on our commercial keepers and on hobby holders as a new measure to prevent the contamination of poultry kept outdoors by contact with wild birds. As the current measures are sufficient to manage avian influenza, I am not planning any additional measures at the moment. As regards the number of infections, on 20 January 2021 there were two infections with highly pathogenic avian influenza of type H5 in our country. The BFSA has identified these infections at a frying chicken company in the West Flemish Menen and at a hobby holder in Dinant in the province of Namur. A third infection with avian influenza virus on a frying chicken company in Diksmuide, also in West Flanders, turned out to be another low pathogenic avian influenza virus of the type H5. On 29 January 2021, a third infection with the highly pathogenic H5 bird flu virus was detected by the BFSA in Deerlijk. Protection and surveillance areas were established. In addition to outbreaks in poultry, 22 highly pathogenic H5 virus infections have already been detected in wild birds at 18 locations in West and East Flanders and Liège. With regard to the reimbursement of the Sanitary Fund, all poultry holdings which are cleared for the purpose of combating avian influenza on behalf of the BFSA are entitled to compensation from the Sanitary Fund. Such compensation shall constitute a fair value for the animals killed. It is calculated on the basis of compensation tables used by the fund to determine the exact value of the animals killed according to the species, type and age of the animals. Those tables were prepared in consultation with the poultry sector. As Minister of Agriculture, I am particularly concerned that the BFSA and the Public Health Office, which manages the fund, should make the necessary efforts to ensure that the compensation for cleaning up a poultry holding is paid quickly to the poultry farmer concerned. In this case, the compensation was dealt with and paid to the poultry farmers concerned within 30 days. In addition, the BFSA is responsible for the operational costs of the disposal and cleaning and disinfection of an infected farm. As regards the situation in neighbouring countries, I am concerned about the situation in France, but I am confident that the French authorities will take the appropriate measures to control the infections with avian influenza. Fortunately for our poultry sector, outbreaks occur in the highly specialised hens and geese sector in the south of France. Our poultry sector has hardly any contact with the affected region. The precautionary measures that I have introduced since two months ago, the first infections in the Netherlands and Germany were discovered, are sufficient to control that risk. This concerns any interruption of trade with another Member State. European legislation strictly regulates the handling of avian influenza. For example, each affected Member State and zone affected by avian influenza should isolate itself and take measures to prevent the virus from spreading to the rest of the country and to other Member States. This approach ensures that animals and products from outside the affected zone are safe. There is therefore no reason to interrupt trade from an affected Member State. Seventeen third countries have, unfortunately, closed their markets to all or part of our poultry and poultry meat because our country is no longer free from avian influenza. These countries are Russia, Ukraine, China, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Philippines, United Arab Emirates and so on. The countries are informed by the BFSA through our embassies about the situation so that they have a correct picture of the situation. As regards the importance of vaccination, I share your belief that a vaccine that effectively protects poultry against avian influenza would be a significant step forward in the prevention of the disease, but unfortunately, for the time being, this ideal solution is practically not feasible. The challenges for a producer of avian influenza vaccine are, as you yourself indicate, the same as when developing a flu vaccine for the population. The problem with all flu viruses is first of all that they regularly change their genetic layout. You will therefore understand that in poultry and birds, where there are many more different types of virus in circulation and so there are many times more variations, it is not possible in practice to have a vaccine that is closely enough compatible with all viruses. As regards the evolution in the coming weeks, on the basis of our experience with highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses, I have to assume that the H5 viruses currently circulating in wild birds throughout Europe and causing frequent infections in poultry will probably not disappear into the background until spring migration begins. This return to the breeding grounds usually starts in the second half of March. I therefore fear that until that time the virus circulation will be such that contact with wild birds should be avoided as much as possible. I asked the BFSA to follow up on the situation on a daily basis. If there is any change which will help the situation to evolve, I will not hesitate to ease the burden of housing more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. I was especially interested in the last piece, where it was about the vaccine. I understand that it is very difficult to develop such a vaccine, but because many countries now keep their markets closed for us, a vaccine would therefore also be economically interesting. I have always heard that it was just not economically interesting to use very strongly on vaccines because our poultry would be worth a little less. However, I note that, according to your prediction, we are now facing this problem from mid-November to mid-March. During this period, part of the international market remains closed to us. I therefore believe that, at European level, we should be able to call for more research into vaccines. We need to work much more at a preventive level against bird flu, even though I realise that the challenge with the mutants will not be less. The link with the coronareality for people is therefore easy to draw. Our chickens are not going to get any better if they have to stay in their loft from mid-November to mid-March.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u22	Minister, you have undoubtedly read the opinion of the Supreme Health Council on satsumas. I'd like to discuss three elements of his report with you. The High Health Council recommends that the use of arthropods be stopped as soon as possible. You will argue that the authorisation for its use may be discontinued at European level on 15 December 2022, but the High Health Council advises us to proceed with this more quickly. He also recommended that more efforts should be made to find an alternative to satsumas. If not, the phase-out will only become more difficult. Then the argument will always be used that there are no alternatives. So the Supreme Health Council wants the efforts to be stepped up. It shouldn't necessarily be about a chemical. It may also be a non-chemical method. In addition, the Supreme Health Council suggests that a coherent plan be drawn up to phase out arthropods. It should contain strictly time-defined results, take all aspects into account and all stakeholders should participate in the multidisciplinary approach. What are your ideas and concrete plans as Minister of Agriculture on those three specific opinions of the High Health Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u23	Ms Creemers, on 3 September 2020, the High Health Council published its own report on satsumas. The Supreme Health Council comes to the next conclusion. The time limit for the approval of arthropods should be respected. The High Health Council is opposed to further use of arthropods, but is aware of the consequences due to the unavailability of appropriate less toxic alternatives. It expects that this will most likely call into question the end date of 15 December 2022. An extension of the approval of arthropods after 15 December 2022 is only possible if a time-related plan is in place, verified, clearly and strictly by the competent authorities. The plan will require the active participation of all stakeholders and all aspects will have to be taken into account. The Supreme Health Council is prepared to cooperate in this. The Department of Plant Protection and Fertilisers (DGM) of the competent administration has thoroughly examined the report of the Supreme Health Council. All contributions to the debate on satsumas are valuable and useful. The report contains several interesting points of view. However, the DGM also points out the limitations inherent to the report, in particular that the High Health Council has not itself evaluated the underlying scientific data. However, it is not the intention of this document to examine the basic scientific data in an attempt to draw up a conclusion on health problems related to arthropods. This limitation, which the HGR has imposed on itself, is understandable. An analysis of all studies on the possible effects of arthropods on health requires far more resources than the HGR has been able to mobilise for this report. The DGM agrees with the HGR that the time limit for the approval of arthropods should be respected. This is quite obvious. This is, after all, a legal obligation, which has been established at European level. If the EU approval of an active substance is not renewed, authorisations of all plant protection products containing that active substance should be withdrawn in all EU Member States. On the other hand, EU legislation also allows the manufacturer of an approved active substance to apply for the renewal of the approval. In addition, the DGM notes that the HGR is not in favour of further use of satsumas, as all data indicate that arthropods is likely to be weakly carcinogenic to humans. Along with other toxicological properties, this is sufficient reason for the HGR to put a further use of phenylalanine on the slope. As I mentioned earlier, the HGR itself did not carry out a scientific evaluation. It cannot be sufficiently emphasised that an application for EU approval of an active substance is evaluated on the basis of strict EU rules, regulation describing in detail the requirements, the evaluation methodology to be followed for the assessment of the data and the criteria to be met by the active substance in order to be approved. It is, of course, important that the rules adopted are strictly observed and applied to all active substances in the same way in order to provide legal certainty for applicants, to ensure equal treatment and to avoid legal disputes. The HGR has not made any attempt to achieve this in the light of the scope of such an order to assess the performance of the contract in accordance with the applicable regulatory framework. The HGR's view that further use of arthropods is undesirable cannot therefore be considered as the conclusion of a review of the applicable criteria as laid down in EU legislation. In its opinion, the HGR refers to numerous scientific studies on toxicological aspects other than carcinogenic, which have been published in recent years. He is right to point out the potential importance of these studies. It is, of course, intended to include the studies in the evaluation in the context of the application for renewal of approval. To what conclusion the evaluation will lead to is unpredictable today, but it is a little premature to say that it will be a measure for nothing, as the HGR predicts. The HGR argues that the extension of the approval of arthropods should depend on the availability of a plan drawn up by the competent authorities, after consultation of all stakeholders, regardless of the outcome of the review to be carried out. The DGM does not advocate a status quo in any way. However, lessons had to be learned from the controversy surrounding satsumas. The social concerns about the evaluation procedure in relation to tracers could not be ignored by the authorities. The EU institutions have made an in-depth analysis of these concerns, including a broad stakeholder consultation. All this led to the Regulation 2019/1381 of 20 June 2019 on the transparency and sustainability of the EU risk assessment in the food chain. The procedures were adapted to provide more transparency and input to stakeholders for evaluation of all substances. Apparently, the HGR did not have time to take note of the innovative aspects introduced by that Regulation. The DGM therefore concludes that an in-depth scientific assessment of the study submitted by producers, as well as of the studies published in the open scientific literature, should allow the authorities to lay the basis for the extension or non-extension of the use of phenylalanine after 2022. Finally, the search for alternatives to arthropods, both chemical and non-chemical, is a competence of the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u24	I agree with you, Minister, that fundamental research will have to be carried out at European level. I hope we don't make the same mistake as in 2016 and 2017, when the Monsanto Papers came up. I hope that the work done by my colleague Bart Staes in the European Parliament is really appreciated and that we will only base ourselves on truly fundamental scientific and independent research to make a statement. The extension also took place on the basis of investigations which were not always so objective. The Authority has once considered that arthropods may be carcinogenic. For me, that's more than enough reason to definitely look for alternatives. My colleague, Séverine de Laveleye, will be asking you another question about neonicotinoids. The argument there is always that we do not have enough alternatives. It is now more than 1.5 years before the decision on satsumas has to be taken. I call on you to make a full commitment in Belgium and in Europe to research into alternatives. Otherwise, at the end of 2022, we will see the renewal of the authorisation for the use of a product that we know is carcinogenic, because there are not enough alternatives. There's no way we can let that happen. Mr Minister, consult with the Regions to make every effort to investigate alternatives to satsumas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u25	Mr Gilissen, I give you the floor for your question. 55011390C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u26	Minister, this question has already been asked at the Flemish level to the Minister for Animal Welfare. In his reply, the Minister stated that the matter is entirely for the federal level. I refer to my question and I would also ask you to give me the answer in writing, if possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u27	Do you want me to read the answer, Mr Gilissen?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u28	You may email me the answer if possible, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u29	The question was therefore answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u30	Minister, European regulations have since 2009 recognised the need for an assessment of the full composition of active substances in pesticides at the licensing stage of these products. A legal action has recently been brought in France by civil society through the filing of a first complaint against X calling into question the labelling of 14 pesticides not referring to substances dangerous to health and the environment and a second complaint calling into question the responsibility of the French State. Although the authorisation of active ingredients in pesticides is a European competence, the authorisation of the commercial product is the responsibility of the federal authority. Minister, does the procedure for authorizing the commercial pesticide product include an in-depth analysis of each of their active ingredients, including adjuvants and co-formulants to label all elements hazardous to health and the environment? What mechanisms are in place in Belgium to avoid labelling fraud? What is the procedure put in place by your services when analysing an application for authorisation of a pesticide?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u31	Madame de Laveleye, on each application for authorisation of a plant protection product, the applicant must declare the complete composition of the product, i.e. the identity, function and concentration of each active substance (phytoprotectors, synergists and coformulants) of the mixture. In accordance with the European Regulation REACH 1907/200, for each component safety data sheets including regulatory information must be provided, such as hazard identification and compositional information. According to this regulation, the producer must only indicate on the safety data sheet the identity of impurities that contribute to the classification of the substance. For mixtures, the identification of substances depends on the concentration thresholds set out in the Regulation. Consequently, holders of authorisations for plant protection products are not always aware of the presence of low-concentration impurities in the coformulants they purchase. When evaluating an application for authorisation, the classification of components shall be verified and validated by comparing it to the notifications in the European Chemicals Agency database or to the harmonised classifications proposed by the European Risk Assessment Committee or published in European legislation on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures. The complaint of labelling fraud filed in France by non-governmental organizations is apparently based on a study by Gilles-Eric Séralini and Gérald Jungers published in the journal Food and Chemical Toxicology. These researchers, who analyzed fourteen herbicide formulations, detected traces of heavy metals and other substances that have some known toxicity as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons that were not declared on the label. The conclusion of researchers and NGOs that this would be fraud in relation to the legal requirements for labelling seems rather to be general speculation that is not supported by evidence. For example, the maximum concentration measured for benzopyrene should not be stated on the commercial label or herbicide safety data sheet, the concentration being below the specific concentration limit. Exposure to certain mutagenic and/or carcinogenic contaminants should be as low as reasonably possible. However, many of these contaminants are ubiquitous in our environment and of natural or anthropogenic origin.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u32	Mr Minister, thank you for your answer, which gives us some clarity on the French case and allows us to look at the Belgian processes with all the confidence they deserve. However, it is known that these processes of pesticide recognition are extremely complicated. If there was no fraud in France, there is no reason to doubt it. Let us continue to be extremely vigilant! It is known that products are handled there with a range of by-products that are extremely harmful to biodiversity and health. Let us give our full support to these teams who are doing these analyses for us, hoping that this will be done in the greatest possible transparency!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u33	Mr. Cogolati, the production of phosphoric acid is considered to be a professional activity in which natural sources of radiation are exploited, with the result that this activity must be reported to the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control (AFCN), in accordance with the Royal Decree of the RGPRI of 20 July 2001. For further information on the supervision of this type of enterprise, including in the management of uranium waste, I refer you to the Minister of the Interior and my colleague who supervises the AFCN. For information, I can still inform you that the approval of an additive and the determination by the European Commission of its conditions of use are only made after a risk assessment by EFSA. In 2019, the Commission reassessed the use of phosphoric acid as an additive. Such an opinion shall be based on the data provided by the additive manufacturers, in particular those relating to the analysis of impurities and production processes, as well as toxicological and other information. EFSA's opinion on phosphoric acid does not identify uranium as a potential hazard. You should be aware that the production of food-grade phosphoric acid involves an extraction step to remove inorganic impurities, including uranium. The purity requirements for phosphoric acid used as an additive in the food chain therefore do not include any requirements for uranium. Given the lack of a standard, the logic is that the AFSCA should not perform any control at this level. Of course, it carries out regular inspections to ensure that additives producers comply with the legislation, in particular with regard to self-monitoring, mandatory notification and traceability.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u34	Minister, thank you for this rather technical answer. I therefore understand that there is no legal or regulatory requirement for the absence of uranium and radioactive residues in phosphoric acid. To the extent that we know that, in the industrial processes that are used, including in our country, there would remain certain radioactive elements and even traces of uranium in phosphoric acid, which is used as a food additive, for example in most of the sodas that we consume like Coca-Cola, it seems to me very important that AFSCA can, in spite of everything, conduct studies to determine whether, yes or no, by consuming these sodas, the Lambda consumer also consumes uranium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u35	Madam President, Minister, on 17 November 2020, a new 120-day derogation for the use of limidaclopride, a neonicotinoid banned by Europe since 2018, was validated by the Public Health FPS for the year 2021. As a reminder, Mr. Ducrame had announced in the second derogation for 2020 that it was the last one. The derogation was given on the basis of an analysis to show "special circumstances" and a "danger that cannot be controlled by other reasonable means". The environmental sector reminds us that the argument is not valid and that alternatives, particularly in organic farming, exist and are even widely used in countries bordering Belgium. In a press article in December, the Head of the Plant Protection and Fertilizers department of the SPF Public Health announced that a derogation for 2022 is already envisaged. Minister, on what basis does the FPS Plant Protection and Fertilizers Service Public Health announce in the press a possible exemption for 2022? What have you put in place or what are you going to put in place with your regional colleagues to ensure that this is the last derogation from European legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u36	Madame de Laveleye, to answer your first question, in the past, the PFS Plant Protection and Fertilizers Department of Public Health has issued authorisation exemptions for the active substances thiamethoxame and Clothianidine for two consecutive years. These derogations were granted following the European ban on the outdoor use of these neonicotinoids. These derogations were based on a risk assessment for bees on the basis of available scientific data and by imposing all necessary measures to exclude exposure to bees. The reason why these derogations were no longer repeated, as announced by my predecessor, is that the data that were available are no longer considered to be sufficiently up-to-date to take into account existing evaluation methods. At the end of 2020, a new authorisation derogation was granted for another active substance neonicotinoid, imidaclopride. Given that the approval dossier for this active substance was updated two years later than for the two active neonicotinoid substances previously discussed, the Public Health FPS considers that it is possible to rely on this data for a further two years in order to grant authorizations for emergence, all based on up-to-date data. The press intervention of the Head of the Plant Protection and Fertilizers department was not intended to announce a new derogation by 2022, but rather to inform that a context was possible for the evaluation of a possible new application. It is clear that each application submitted by an agricultural sector will be examined and evaluated. Applications will be reviewed by the Committee for the Approval of Pesticides for Agricultural Use, established for this purpose and composed in particular of representatives of the Regions. As far as your second question is concerned, it is not within the competence of the Public Health FPS to implement actions aimed at developing alternatives to certain active substances. The role of this administration is to monitor and evaluate applications for authorisation of plant protection products. At best, it can participate in setting up a positive context for certain alternatives, but cannot develop them itself. These are the competences of other public bodies, particularly regional ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm still a little confused. I continue to find that, if I can use this term, the administration can already communicate about a possible application context, or a possible acceptance of a product that is banned at European level. This shows a position of acceptance in the face of this kind of product which is not commensurate with the risks that are recognised at European level – since these products are prohibited – and at international level in the light of the collapse of ecosystems and the disappearance of bees and other pollinators. I am really worried that we are already preparing ourselves psychologically, especially through the press, for future demands. I call on you, as the appropriate minister, to pay particular attention to this issue. I ask you to ensure that your administrations are extremely diligent in the analysis of the potential future demands of the sector, and that they conduct consistent analyses to determine the real needs of the sector according to the context. We realize that the previous analyses were sometimes a little fast, as you said yourself. For this reason, they were not extended. However, attention must be paid to future demands, because one day we will have to take our environment and our health into account with diligence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u38	Since Ms Kattrin Jadin was absent, her question No 55013563C became moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u39	Mrs de Laveleye, since Ms Jadin had also asked a question on the same subject, I put my point together in one answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u40	Yes, of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u41	In accordance with the government agreement, our position on GMOs is consistent with the precautionary principle, which is based on scientific knowledge and on a case-by-case assessment of GMOs. As you know, this matter is co-managed by the federal and regional governments. In the federal government, it is the Ministers of Public Health, the Environment and Agriculture who are responsible for placing GMOs on the market and authorizing experiments. The various GMO dossiers are therefore always discussed between our three firms and administrations. In addition, the Regions exercise their powers with regard to the contained use of GMOs and have the right to veto the authorizations for experimentation. Genetic improvement and modification techniques have evolved rapidly since the introduction of GMO legislation in 2001. They bring together a dozen highly varied molecular biology techniques. Since 2007, many discussions and reflections have taken place at European level. In its judgment of 25 July 2018, the European Court of Justice ruled that the new technique to which you refer falls within the scope of the GMO legislation and is therefore not exempted. The new generation of GMOs is obtained by mutagenesis – the so-called Crispr/Cas9 method – and not by transgenesis, as for the old generation – that is, by techniques that alter the genome of a living species without the insertion of foreign DNA. They are therefore subject to compliance with Directive 2001/18 of the European Parliament and of the European Council of 12 March 2001 on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms. According to the Directive, this new type of GMOs must be authorised before it is placed on the market. At present, this new technique is already regulated by existing GMO legislation and does not require any further legislative changes. The European Commission is working on a study on the subject, the results of which will be available at the end of April 2021. Belgium's position will be timely, as neither the conclusions of this study nor the follow-up given by the European Commission can be prejudged. As part of its study, the European Commission consulted Member States in the form of a questionnaire containing 24 questions on the implementation and implementation of GMO legislation in the light of new genomic techniques. Belgium replied in detail to each of them. The full replies from the Member States will be published by the Commission on its website at the time of publication of the study finalised in April 2021. The Commission's study has several components. As regards the scientific aspect, the Commission mandated EFSA and the Joint Research Centre (JRC). The work is complementary, i.e. EFSA provides scientific advice on feed risk assessment while the JRC provides advice, reports and underlying studies to support EU food and feed policy. In response to the above-mentioned questionnaire, the competent Belgian authority, i.e. the Public Health FPS, consulted the competent regional authorities, AFSCA, Sciensano, the national reference laboratory, the Biosafety Advisory Council and the Bioethics Advisory Committee. I have no information on how multinational lobbying is organized on this issue. However, I can inform you that the European Commission study includes a consultation component for stakeholders other than the competent authorities. The minutes of the hearings of these stakeholders will be published in full by the European Commission together with the other elements of the study in April 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u42	Minister, thank you for this fairly clear answer. You are right to recall that the government agreement mentions that with regard to GMOs, it is necessary to rely on the available scientific data. However, as widely emphasized by the environmental sector, there is a serious lack of scientific data on the potential impacts of these new families of GMOs, particularly on biodiversity and potentially also on health. But major biodiversity risks have been identified. I understand that we will have access to the data produced by Belgium at the end of April, after the publication of the European analysis. This is something that we will have to go back to. Indeed, a real public debate is needed on these issues. These are new technologies and we know how much they can have an impact on our society in general. We are therefore calling for a broader, more open debate, perhaps in Parliament, in order to be able to move forward together, in full intelligence, on these issues which are extremely important for the future of agriculture and biodiversity. It is with great care that we will take note of the report at the end of April. This is likely to be an opportunity to come back to you and see how we can move a little more structuredly with Parliament on these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u43	Mrs Thibaut, the legislation requires professional users, distributors and advisers of plant protection products to have plant licence. AFSCA supervisors are not included in these categories and therefore do not need to have a plant licence in their control missions for which they must, of course, have knowledge, and in particular the legislation. This has been clarified by the Phytolicence working group of federal and regional authorities as well as the stakeholders involved in plantlicence, and is confirmed by the FPS Public Health responsible for plantlicence. This interpretation can be found in the Plantlicence Guide in Part 3, Professional use, version of April 7, 2020, published on the website fytoweb (www.fytoweb.be).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u44	Mr Minister, thank you and will not fail to consult the reference you have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u45	Minister, the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services is the external oversight body of the police services. The institution, generally referred to as the P Committee, acts under the auspices of the Federal Parliament as an external body, both in relation to the executive and the police services. It is responsible for the overall monitoring of the police services and for the performance of the police function by all the competent officials of the inspection or control services. Little is known about the fact that the same Committee P is also competent to control the AFSCA inspectors who are actually part of the inspection and control services within the meaning of the Organic Act of 18 July 1991. This would allow Committee P to investigate the activities and methods of these inspectors; their internal regulations and directives; all documents regulating the behaviour of their members; and the activities and methods of inspection. In 10 years of existence, however, the P Committee did not carry out any monitoring investigation into the AFSCA and it received only one complaint during this period. Minister, unless I'm wrong, there's no mention of the oversight body (the P Committee) on the AFSCA site, is it forgotten? If so, will you intervene to ensure that this is included? While there has not yet been a monitoring survey of practices, methods or regulations, how are these methods being evaluated today?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u46	Mrs Thibaut, in order to answer your first question, since the monitors and inspectors of the AFSCA are empowered to detect and detect criminal offences, Committee P is indeed competent and responsible for the external supervision of the control services of the AFSCA. Committee P describes its external monitoring function as an observation function. In particular, it ensures how the effectiveness, efficiency and coordination of police services are achieved and how fundamental rights are respected and actively promoted in the exercise of the police function. The P Committee has no repressive or coercive role. It does not act as a mediator and has not been created to resolve individual problems that some complainants may have with the police services. It is therefore not for the AFSCA to take the initiative to publish on its website the competence of the P Committee with respect to external oversight of the control services of the AFSCA. On the other hand, if the P Committee wishes to publicize its oversight function of the AFSCA control services, it can of course request it. With regard to your second question on the evaluation of methods, since the FCASA is included in the overview of special inspection services and their respective competencies published by the P Committee, it appears that the P Committee has a clear vision of the FCASA's control competencies and will also make recommendations and opinions, if necessary. With regard to the external oversight of the AFSCA Control Services Committee P, no action by the AFSCA Control Services Committee is known to date. However, the AFSCA processes are regularly subject to external audits, both by the Court of Auditors and the Internal Federal Audit Service and within the framework of the AFSCA quality management system. With respect to the internal oversight of FCASA's oversight services, there are several internal processes. AFSCA has chosen to promote and encourage six values as part of its day-to-day operations: professionalism, integrity, openness, respect, fairness and trust. The Agency's quality policy supports these values, which are put into practice through various procedures and which are regularly discussed in meetings, management discussions and coordination. As mentioned above, this quality policy is subject to external evaluation by independent accreditation and certification bodies each year. This quality policy is based in particular on the principles of the COSO internal control system and on a number of international quality standards (ISO 9001, ISO 17020, ISO 17025). One of these procedures describes how AFSCA inspectors receive appropriate training and annual support, in accordance with the requirements of the above-mentioned ISO standards. In practice, this means that each inspector-supervisor is accompanied each year by a coach and/or his/her functional head who evaluates in particular the employee's attitude, on the basis of the rules of conduct published in the Inspector-Supervisor's Charter. In the event of a possible irregularity or a lesser benefit, an additional adjustment and accompaniment shall be provided. For each inspector-inspector, at least two administrative files are also monitored each year. Another procedure to be mentioned concerns the management of notifications of internal fraud. So far, this procedure has never had to be invoked. In accordance with the Act of 15 September 2013 on the Denunciation of a suspected infringement of integrity within a federal administrative authority, the AFSCA has appointed a person of trust and integrity within its organization. It also has its own mediation service. This service deals with external complaints about the functioning of the AFSCA and aims at continuous improvement. The AFSCA places great importance on the quality of its service delivery. Complaints received by the Mediation Service mainly concern persons and businesses controlled by the AFSCA. The Mediation Service is an internal service at the AFSCA and depends on the services of the Associate Administrator and, more specifically, the Internal Audit Service, in order to ensure the impartiality and objectivity of the Mediation Service in the handling of complaints. Finally, as part of the quality management system, the above-mentioned processes are regularly evaluated by the AFSCA Internal Audit Service. Any anomalies are monitored and incorporated into an action plan. In summary, it can therefore be concluded that there is extensive internal and external oversight of the functioning of the AFSCA control services and that adjustments can be made if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u47	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer. I think we agree on the role of the P Committee for sworn inspectors in the AFSCA. It's one thing. I'm not questioning it at all. You have really done a comprehensive inventory of all the internal and external controls that exist. But I think we should have better publicity about the role of Committee P, so that, in some cases, which may be rare, but which are violent and difficult to experience on the ground, some may have recourse to Committee P as citizens are entitled to it. I'll come back to you. I'll take a look at your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u48	If I may, I served on Committee P. I think we were even together at some point. I am quite open to this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u49	Madam President, Minister, I assume that you will not get too many questions about pigeon sport. It's also the first time I've asked a question about this. Within just over two months, on April 1st, the new Animal Health Act will come into force. This European regulation regulates, inter alia, the transport of animals within the EU. It aims to prevent the spread of diseases such as the avian flu. In itself that is commendable, but within the world of pigeon sport this regulation causes some concern. Article 59 of the Regulation provides that pigeons should be quarantined for three weeks before the start of a flight from another country of the European Union. In addition, a check shall be carried out by an approved veterinarian no later than 48 hours prior to the removal. The Royal Belgian pigeon fancier's association speaks of the end of pigeon sport as we know it in our country. The IVPA, the international counterpart, shares that view. Minister, are you aware of this problem? Have you been in contact with the Royal Belgian pigeon fancier's association? What results has this contact achieved if any? Have you been in contact with Flemish Minister Ben Weyts, who indicated in the Flemish Parliament that he would raise the issue with the federal government and the BFSA in particular? What was the result of this contact, if any? Will you make an attempt to amend the relevant European regulation? Have you taken initiatives on this? What initiatives are you planning to take in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u50	Madam President, Mr Creyelman, as regards your first question, I am aware of the provisions on pigeons. Regulation 2016/429, also referred to as animal health legislation, is itself very vague about the rules applicable to captive birds, including pigeon traps. For the specific rules for pigeons, it was awaiting the delegated Regulation 2020/688, which was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 3 June 2020. As for your second question, about the contact with the Royal Belgian Pigeon Fan League, in November 2020 the Royal Belgian Pigeon Fan League was contacted by the BFSA. The association provided the BFSA with up-to-date data on pigeon sport in order to assess the impact of the measures on the sector and to present that impact to the European Commission. On 18 January 2021, the BFSA organised a consultation with the Royal Belgian pigeon fancier's association, explaining the current European rules for pigeons and the ongoing discussion with the European Commission on this issue. The International Veterinary Pigeons Association - Belgian branch, IVPA Belgium, was also invited and present at this meeting. The BFSA and the Royal Belgian pigeon fanciers' association are on the same lines as regards the impact of the measures on pigeon sport, on pigeon fanciers and on the BFSA. The BFSA wishes to find solutions to this situation, particularly in view of the disproportionate impact compared to the objectives of that provision which it opposed in the discussions at European level as soon as it became clear. I am not aware of the contacts between Flemish Minister Ben Weyts and the European Commission. He didn't contact me about this either. However, Walloon Minister Willy Borsus asked me to remain attentive to this problem. Since November 2020, I have been in contact with the representative of the Royal Belgian Pigeon Fan League, who has made me aware of the issue of the application of the European Regulation 2020/688. I followed up on the file with the managers of the BFSA in order to find a solution in the short term for the good organisation of races in the season 2021. Certification in the case of movements of animals between neighbouring countries can partly be avoided through the application of Article 139 of Regulation 2016/429 which allows bilateral agreements. Since most pigeon races for Belgium depart from France, the BFSA contacted the CVO of Francrijk on 5 January 2021 with the request to start a bilateral consultation and possibly to conclude a bilateral agreement on pigeon races with a place of departure in France. France has already replied that it is prepared to enter into consultations. Following consultation with the sector, it has been decided that consultations with the other neighbouring countries are not necessary from the point of view of Belgium. I personally received a delegation from the Royal Belgian pigeon fancier's association on 18 January 2021 to inform them about the attention I paid to the dossier. Finally, in response to your fifth question on the initiatives in this area, the European Commission held a working group meeting with the Member States to which this regulation was also addressed on 12 October 2020 and 26 November 2020. Belgium, through the BFSA, outlined the problems posed by the provisions for pigeon sport and also provided an explanation to the European Commission on 1 December 2020. The Commission is aware of the fact that some provisions in the delegated Regulation 2020/688 make it impossible to organise cross-border pigeon races. It has already proposed at the consultations on 26 November 2020 that the minimum duration of stay of 21 days should not apply to those matches. An amendment to that delegated regulation has already been drafted for this purpose. Until 20 January 2021, the European Commission has not yet notified the answer to the question as to whether there are any other amendments to the delegated Regulation on compulsory certification of pigeons or on the procedure for drawing up the certificates. The BFSA will follow the revision further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u51	Minister, I thank you for your very detailed answer and for your very great effort to say words such as 'Royal Pigeon Fan' in Dutch. I know it's not that easy. I'm gonna cut to the chase. I'm glad you take the concerns of the pigeon fanciers to heart. Let us be honest. If the regulation were to be implemented unannounced and unchanged, we could literally bury the pigeon sport in our country, as already stated by the IVPA and the Royal pigeon fancier's association. I am thinking here of the improbable administrative burden alone. I have been told that it will mean for the federal administration that about 344 000 certificates would have to be delivered per season. I don't even have to talk about the costs that this will incur for the pigeon fanciers themselves. You can see where the difficulties lie. So I can only hope that you will be able to put sufficient pressure on the European Commission together with the BFSA and other partners, so that a pragmatic solution can be found. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u52	Madam President, the initial project launched by the accompanying unit has led to the development of a circular. This circular sets out the procedures for the production/conservation of Belgian cheeses, which are safe and easy, based on the findings of scientific studies funded by the AFSCA. As a reminder, this project was carried out to support operators in the milk processing sector on the farm. On the basis of the results of these studies, the Scientific Committee set up at the AFSCA submitted an opinion 08/2020 allowing the classification of fresh cheeses produced in Belgium in the category of foodstuffs which do not allow the growth of pathogenic bacteria Listeria monocytogenes, with an applicable standard of 100 colony-forming units per gram, instead of absence. As fresh cheeses are the most represented among Belgian farmers, this new provision facilitates the monitoring of production and sales for many producers, while ensuring safe products for consumption. We can also highlight, in 2018 and 2019, the support of the accompanying unit to livestock farmers for the sale of meat parcels on the farm. It is now apparent that this type of activity has spread widely. The following figures give an overview of the number of farmers, farmers and beekeepers who have been accompanied in their diversification process through information sessions and answers to their individual questions by e-mail and/or telephone. In 2019, 250 of these operators attended one of our group information sessions, and 137 questions were answered by e-mail or telephone. In 2020, 77 of these operators attended one of our group information sessions, and 119 questions were answered by e-mail or telephone. Of course, since 2020 is a very special year, the accompanying unit has been very little on the ground. However, contacts are very regular. The balance sheet of the activities of the accompanying unit is therefore positive and shows the added value of the work carried out by the AFSCA in this respect. Its accompanying cell is now known and recognized by the sector. The staff of this unit remain very attentive to the demands of small producers in order to help them at best in dealing with specific difficulties related to the application of European food safety regulations and in their diversification project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u53	Minister, I share your enthusiasm. You will see that my questions are balanced, because they also highlight the very positive work of the AFSCA towards small producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u54	Minister, for several years, participatory guarantee systems (GSPs) have been developing in our country. These are quality assurance systems rooted in the territory and operating through direct consumer collaboration. These systems function as alternative certification systems based on trust and participation. They allow producers to validate the quality of their products through a permanent exchange with consumers. The obvious advantage for them lies in the fact that they can thus dispense with costly and often unsuitable certification labels for small producers. Minister, are you familiar with these participatory guarantee systems? Do you think they are interesting solutions for small farms operating in short circuits and wishing to limit the costs associated with certification labels? Are additional requirements claimed by the AFSCA? If so, is an adaptation of the requirements of the AFSCA envisaged to enhance this type of initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u55	Mrs Thibaut, the mission of AFSCA is to control the entire food chain. As part of this mission, the AFSCA takes into account, in particular, the self-control systems put in place by the operators themselves, but also the signals or information of the various actors in the chain and other authorities. The main objective, however, remains to ensure food safety and to protect the health of the consumer. Participatory guarantee systems are used worldwide in food networks. They are often considered complementary to organic farming labels and certificates. In Belgium, organic farming and related labels are subjects which fall exclusively within regional competence. As a result, AFSCA is not involved in participatory guarantee systems and has so far not taken them into account in the performance of its mission. I invite you to contact the relevant regional agriculture ministers for these systems if you would like to know more about their use in organic farming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand well the role of FASD in the health of everyone. Control systems exist. But today they are often unsuitable for small structures. The track of participatory certificates is therefore, in my view, a new track which it would be useful to examine outside the framework of the labels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u57	Minister, this question will go a bit in the same direction. Many farmers write to all party presidents complaining about the amount of the annual contribution they have to pay to AFSCA in terms of the real cost of controlling their farms by their agents. For all sectors, with the exception of the primary production sector, the amount of the contribution varies according to the size of the enterprise. There is a reduced tariff for operators with a certified self-checking system. However, there is the question of the accessibility of such certification for small farmers. Minister, what is the total number of operators active in the primary production sector? How many of them benefit from the reduced tariff and do they have a validated self-checking system? Do you share my feeling that only primary producers must pay a lump sum contribution? Don't you see it as a form of discrimination? What is the total amount of annual contributions from the primary production sector for the years 2018-2019 and 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u58	Ms Thibaut, the associations representing the primary sector opted in 2005, during the discussions surrounding the drafting of the Royal Decree of 10 November 2005 fixing contributions, for an ex officio invoice for a lump sum based on the inclusion of the activities of the primary sector in the Agency's database. These same representative associations remain committed to the principle of an annual invoice of their own motion, in order to avoid their members from having to file a declaration. Moreover, it goes without saying that a reduction in the amount invoiced for certain operators or an extension of the exemption criteria would automatically lead to an increase in the amount invoiced to other operators in the sector if the loss of profits is not offset by an increase in the federal allocation. Starters, i.e. operators who start their activities under the control of the AFSCA and who receive an invoice in their first year of business, are also charged a lump sum without any particular complaints. For the various figures requested, I have an annex table which I will provide to you. In summary, in 2018, the invoices amounted to €4.677 million and concerned 38,386 operators – 17,832 benefiting from a reduced rate. In 2019, the amount of invoices amounted to 4,430 million euros for 35,871 operators and 18,150 beneficiaries of a reduced rate. In 2020, invoices amounted to €4.725 million invoiced, for 37,436 operators and 18,422 beneficiaries of a reduced rate. Basically, we're about half of it. I'll give you the numbers so you can read them in more detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, I have introduced this question at the level of primary producers orally. It would be interesting to compare with other sectors. I look forward to the answers to the written questions I have introduced on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u60	Mrs Jadin is not here; her question No 55013363C becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u61	Minister, you may have heard of the misadventures of Jenny, the manager of a small grocery store in the village of Sart in the commune of Jalhay ten minutes from my home. A 81-year-old and professionally active for 60 years, Jenny received a new visit from AFSCA on January 21. It's the sixth since June last year. The main complaint concerns the sale of eggs from private henhouses and insufficiently traced according to the Agency's standards. This case has led to a profound misunderstanding among the local population. Of course, it is not for me to question the useful work of AFSCA or the need to establish efficient criteria for the safety of the food chain. Nevertheless, Jenny's example highlights some of the questions that had already arisen in the past. In 2018, following the Veviba scandal, Minister Ducrame had ordered two audits on the functioning of the AFSCA. Among the recommendations, the question of the proportionality of inspections was important, with suggestions such as a frequency of control adapted to the size of the operator or less disproportionate administrative fines for small producers. I also know that there is an extension and accompaniment unit at AFSCA, which is responsible, in particular, for assisting the smallest establishments experiencing difficulties in understanding the many subtleties of the legislation governing their activities. This is particularly true in this case, since, as I recall, the grocery manager is 81 years old. Minister, have you been aware of this case? I assume that goes without saying. In concrete terms, what forms of assistance does the extension and support unit offer in situations like this? I also know that, since then, contacts have been resumed with the help of the mayor of Jalhay, who is of your political formation. What about the follow-up to the recommendations made by the ACSA audits on the proportionality of inspections?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u62	Madam Chair, Mr.Ben Achour, I was informed by the Federal Agency as early as January 18, 2021 that a new complaint from a consumer who became ill as a result of the consumption of food from the Sart-Lez-Spa grocery store had been filed. I also learned about the history of the difficulties encountered by the manager since 2008 and the Agency's support since 2008. The Agency is aware that a village grocery store is, of course, a place of primary necessity and creates a social bond. However, the Agency must continue to protect consumers and must no longer turn a blind eye to the shortcomings found on the spot. I was also in contact with the mayor of the commune of Jalhay, Mr Fransolet, who organized a meeting in the commune with the officials of the Agency and the epicier, accompanied for the occasion by his daughter. Various explanations have been given to her so that she can put her grocery store in order and that the re-control scheduled in February is going well. Everything went well. Ms. Malay said that the Agency had done its job properly. The Agency must re-check from 1 February 2021 in Ms. Malay's establishment. The summons sent to Mrs Malay is no longer effective following the consultation meeting, I am informed. Ms. Malay is aware of the non-compliances in her store and is in the process of remedying them. At the meeting, the Agency answered all questions from Ms. Malay and her daughter. The Agency also stressed that it does not want to close Mrs Malay's establishment and that the Agency is there for consumer safety but also to help small operators like it. A relationship of trust is established between Mrs Malay and the ULC of Liège. Mrs Malay also has the telephone number of the ULC of Liège if she still has questions before the re-checking visit scheduled for February. There's been a crash on social media. I'm not making you say it! Following the last check carried out on 18 January 2021, which, as a reminder, was based on a complaint about the purchase of an embryonic egg, by a consumer who fell ill and on the seizure of unfit products for consumption, there was indeed a crash on social networks. Neither the Agency nor Mrs Malay wanted that. Many interventions on these social networks showed a lack of information on the part of stakeholders. Some have even called for violence against Agency agents, which is intolerable. The Labour Auditorate has also been informed of these calls for violence and will take such action as it deems necessary. Other consumers also sent support marks to the Agency and insisted that if we live in our food security, it is through the work of the Agency. Others also reported to the Agency that they found the wave of comments spilled into the manna of social networks infamous and took the back of all the insults to thank the Agency for its controls and the pedagogy that the Agency and its staff are trying to put in place. There were reactions by press release. As regards the forms of assistance offered by the extension and accompaniment unit in such situations, the Agency accompanies small farmers, small businesses and independents through its extension and accompaniment unit, set up under the last legislature. It embodies the Agency's accompanying role. With it, the AFSCA helps operators to understand and implement their company's rules, both in terms of self-monitoring and traceability, mandatory notifications and labelling. According to the latest satisfaction survey, 94% of operators believe that the Agency is helping to improve the safety of the food chain and the reliability of Belgian products. As far as the proportionality of inspections is concerned, the Federal Internal Audit Service considers that further measures would make it possible to create a genuine overall communication strategy such as clear communication objectives, which has already been achieved by the AFSCA. In order to respond to the recommendations made by the Federal Audit Service, an annual programme has been drawn up on the basis of the different target groups, be they consumers or the sectors concerned, as well as the various measures transmitted to them. This communication strategy implies (always according to the Federal Audit Service) that the communication unit be strengthened. Recruitment of staff can only take place when the corresponding budgetary means are validated by the Government. All these actions are in the direction of even clearer, more responsive and targeted communication, both for the consumer and for all stakeholders in the agri-food sector. As regards the frequency of Agency checks, it should be noted that they may be of two types, but are still unannounced, except in particular cases: routine checks carried out on the basis of a frequency determined by a risk analysis. These are inspections, sampling, control plans. In this case, once every four years at the grocery store. Where major non-conformities are found, a new check shall be carried out systematically. There are also checks carried out following complaints, food poisoning, European alert messages, non-compliant samples. The latter are by nature non-programmable. These are missions outside the Agency's control plan. In the case of Ms.Malay's grocery store, since 2010, several controls have taken place. We can provide you, as an attachment, with the control history. I'm not going to give them to you here because it would take too long, but know that there have been several complaints, which has led to controls, mainly in this grocery store.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u63	Minister, thank you for that answer. Truly, without any ambiguity, it is not a question of questioning the work of the AFSCA, but this matter speaks a lot. I'm thinking about the image deficit that AFSCA is suffering from. In general, it does not take much for sometimes severe reactions to be expressed to the Agency. This is obviously a shame, but it also says a lot about the commitment of citizens, especially in rural areas, but not just... As Vervietois, I also remember the rice pie case. I saw stickers bloom in defense of rice pie made with raw milk on hundreds, even thousands of cars in my area. It was a few years ago. The challenge is always to find the right balance points, to hold both hands of objectives that may sometimes seem contradictory. Food security which is obviously an absolute; but also the defense of terroirs, gastronomic terroirs, culinary terroirs and then of a certain form of sales tradition, also in the villages. This is a challenge that is not obvious. We wanted to highlight the specificities of certain territories, which make the work of the AFSCA no less necessary, but perhaps even more difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u64	Question No 55013311C by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u65	Minister, I have a question on titanium dioxide which I also put to your predecessor, Mr Ducarme, last year. As you know, EFSA started its titanium dioxide study in 2019. Belgium is actively participating in the follow-up at European level. Your predecessor replied to my question last year: "I decided to refer this matter to the Scientific Committee of the BFSA and, pending the conclusions of that committee, I will not hesitate to ban this product in advance on the Belgian market, and to ban it before Europe." I haven't heard from him since. So I would like to ask you about the state of play. What are the conclusions of the BFSA Scientific Committee on titanium dioxide? What is the state of play at European level? Do you have plans to start a ban at Belgian level? In the meantime Test Purchase has also responded. It says a ban won't even be enough. In addition to a ban, there must be a mandatory indication on all packaging of all products containing nanoparticles, and there must also be a penalty for any violation. Test Purchase also says that the REACH Regulation should be adapted at European level to current science on nanoparticles and titanium dioxide. I thought this was disturbing enough to ask you about the state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u66	Mrs Creemers, as far as your first question is concerned, my predecessor's initial request was first discussed by a working group of the independent Scientific Committee set up by the BFSA in October 2020. Since the safety of the use of E171 food products is currently being re-evaluated by the Authority and taking into account the large amount of new scientific data and the very high priority given to the evaluation of this literature by EFSA, the Scientific Committee decided to temporarily suspend its work on the safety assessment of E171 pending the opinion of EFSA. Then I come to your second question. The draft regulation amending specifications for titanium dioxide, the first step of European action, would prohibit titanium dioxide with an average particle size of less than 100 nanometres. These new specifications would already prohibit the use and marketing of different formulations of this additive. However, the European Parliament blocked this draft, which prevented it from being approved. This second phase of the European plan is to review the conditions for authorisation of this additive on the basis of the results of the EFSA evaluation and the additional toxicological data requested by the European Commission from manufacturers. However, due to the corona crisis, the laboratory work had to be delayed for a while, which delayed the submission of the dossier part with the toxicological data. The timing foreseen for the EFSA opinion on these new toxicological data has therefore been postponed to March 2021. The final decision on the future of admission will be taken by the European Commission and the Member States as soon as this opinion is available. Then I come to your third question. A national ban does not seem to me to be the most coherent. The most efficient approach is to follow the European process. Then I come to your final question about compulsory labelling and the punishment of infringements. Any ingredient present in the form of technically manufactured nanomaterial must be clearly stated in the list of ingredients. The name of the ingredient is followed by (nano). This is regulated by the provisions of EU Regulation No. 1169 on the provision of food information to consumers and which has been in force for six years. The BFSA shall carry out checks on this provision and take action in the event of infringements. The analysis of nanoparticles present in products is provided for in food legislation. Both food additives and food ingredients in the form of manufactured nanomaterials or containing manufactured nanomaterials should undergo an authorisation procedure before being allowed on the market. All risks, including those related to the effects of nanoparticles, will be thoroughly evaluated according to the best available scientific methodology. In addition, the additive legislation also provides for an automatic re-evaluation after a certain period following the first authorisation. This process of re-evaluation is exactly what is now going on for titanium dioxide. The question of the adaptation of the REACH Regulation, the measures of which are aimed at chemicals, does not fall within my competence, but falls within the competence of the Minister for the Environment. REACH measures on registration, evaluation and authorisation shall not apply when a substance is used in food, in accordance with EU Regulation 178/2002, including food additives. Food law ensures the highest level of consumer health protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Allow me to find this a little strange. I asked the question to your predecessor in October 2019. He replied that he would submit it to the Scientific Committee. Apparently, that doesn't happen until October 2020. Then it will be stopped because the work is done at European level. I had just understood that Belgium would take an active role and also conduct research at the request of Europe. You say that EFSA will continue with the studies carried out by the manufacturers. For me, that is again the same story as with the Monsanto Papers. That's very strange. We should also be able to use input from the BFSA Scientific Committee to lift it at European level. It should not only depend on studies carried out by manufacturers, because then we make the same mistake as we made a couple of years ago when it came to the latter. I hope that you will follow this process very closely at European level. You say that a further step would be taken in March 2021. I suggest that I re-interview you on this in the next round of questions. This has been going on for a long time. This file runs from June 2019. Your predecessor of the same party was in favour of speeding up the process in Belgium, because this really causes health problems. Mr Minister, we will be meeting at the next round of questions to discuss this again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u68	Minister, I have drawn the inspiration for my question from your policy statement. You said that communication should be as good as possible and that communication would be one of the action points at the BFSA. Apparently, there would still be room for improvement when it comes to communication in case information needs to be spread over unsafe food that needs to be recalled. What means of communication does the BFSA use when a unsafe product has to be recalled? Do you consider the means of communication sufficient? When will they be evaluated? When will they be brought up to date? Is there cooperation with commercial partners? Recently I bought an unsafe product from Colruyt and they were informed of it via my customer card. Through that customer card I received an email that I could return the product and exchange it for a safe product. Is it more large-scale that commercial partners are involved in product recall? Do you intend to strengthen in the short term the obligations for producers and sellers to communicate unsafe products? I myself live in a border region, so it happens once in a while that we buy food products in the Netherlands, of course not in corona time. If I now buy something that is considered unsafe in the Netherlands, is there any European cooperation on the basis of which I am also informed about this unsafe product purchase?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u69	Mrs Creemers, companies active in the food chain are responsible for the products they market. They are therefore also responsible for any recall, both in terms of logistics and in terms of communication with consumers. The communication service of the BFSA is always informed by the Directorate-General for Control when a product recall was ordered. In most cases, a company responsible for recall is designated and is entrusted with communication with the consumer. The communication service of the BFSA then provides its expertise to ensure clear, fast and correct communication with the consumer. Once the company's press release has been analysed by the BFSA it is up to the company to send it to the national press agency Belga, in French, Dutch and/or German if necessary. In certain cases, the Directorate-General for Control considers it more relevant that the communication service itself prepares the press release and sends it to the Belga press agency. In both cases, the communication service of the BFSA ensures that the communication is clearly, precisely, quickly and effectively known by the press. For example, the content must always indicate the batch number, expiry date, type of packaging, weight and sales period, so that the consumer can easily identify the product. The BFSA also checks whether the consumer can contact the responsible company in case of questions about a specific recall. The BFSA therefore provides support and distributes the information systematically on its website, via social networks and via its newsletter. The contact point for the consumer of the BFSA is also informed of the recalls, so that it can answer any questions it would receive about a recall efficiently. As for your second question, the BFSA uses all useful channels to facilitate consumer information about product recalls, in parallel with what the companies develop. The consumer who subscribes to the newsletter product recalls will receive the information about each recall systematically and directly. Social networks are an efficient means of quickly reaching out to many consumers. The BFSA also checks whether the company communicates via its website in case of online sales and ensures that the press is informed. In addition, the BFSA also intends to carry out a consumer awareness campaign on product recalls in the context of the new business plan. In response to your third question, I can inform you that the BFSA is following closely any company or group of companies that has to recall a product. In the context of communication to the consumer, the BFSA does not identify any real shortcomings. It continues, on the one hand, to monitor closely the companies concerned and, on the other hand, to use its different information channels for product recalls. When the BFSA finds that a company is failing to provide the right information to consumers, it takes corrective action. In reply to your fourth and final question, I would like to point out that communication between Member States is systematic in the context of recall of products marketed in more than one European country. This is possible thanks to the European rapid alert system, the RASFF, set up in 1979. In addition to that official system for the rapid exchange of information, the BFSA also contacts its counterparts from other Member States, when useful, in particular with its counterparts in neighbouring countries. In addition, at a meeting of the CEN Group of Communications Experts Networking, coordinated by EFSA in October 2019, the BFSA proposed to optimise the exchange of information between the communication services and the safety agencies of the Member States' food chain in the context of product recalls and to harmonise the approach at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. It is true that things are already happening. In particular, I hear from you that there is an awareness campaign in the pipeline, which was also mentioned in your policy statement. I am therefore pleased but, above all, curious about the concrete steps in this area. You say that, so far, little or no shortcomings have been identified in cooperation with producers. In any case, I think it would be useful to ask for figures on this matter. I propose that I do so through a written question, in order to know what a successful recall campaign is and how much percent, for example, is called back to talk about a successful recall campaign. You also reply that there will be a notification at European level if the product is placed on the market in several countries. If, however, it was only put on the market in the Netherlands and I bought the product there, it would be of no use if the warning did not come to me. You say that an exchange between the BFSAs of the different Member States should harmonise this. I look forward to concrete steps in this area. I suggest that I try to objectify the problem through a number of written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u71	Debates of the European Parliament 55013784C by Mrs Anneleen Van Bossuyt is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u72	Mr Van Bossuyt, my question is indeed an update on the same resolution, so the answers will also partly respond to your question. Mr President, my question concerns the resolution on the revision of date indications in the fight against food waste by Mr Van Bossuyt, to which I have contributed through many amendments. In that resolution we asked a number of questions to the BFSA. The first question concerns the list of products with the restriction 'at least sustainable to'. Can we supplement that list with products that should no longer be labelled 'at least sustainable to'? These are products where we could assume that they remain good and no longer need date marking. The second question concerns the main objective of the resolution, in particular to better communicate the concept of 'at least sustainable to' to consumers. Mr Minister, I have the following specific questions. What initiatives have you already taken to limit the concept of 'at least sustainable' to foodstuffs and to extend this famous list? What are you planning to do in the near future? Are there any other initiatives in our resolution that you have already taken or will take in the near future? What will the BFSA do in the coming months to make the concept 'at least sustainable until' known? When will we evaluate these initiatives? When will you send it back to me? In the resolution, you were asked to work with organisations such as Too Good to Go, who already have a lot of experience in that communication and who already reach a very large audience through his app and the newsletter. Those organisations will provide you with suggestions to reduce food waste together with the BFSA and to communicate even better about the concept of 'at least sustainable until'. What do you plan in the near future with organizations like Too Good to Go? After all, they are eager to help you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u73	Madam President, Ms Creemers, as regards setting the date of minimum durability, it is, as was established at European level, the responsibility of the food producer to determine the date of minimum durability or final consumption on the basis of all the characteristics of the product. The BFSA does not have the power to act against the sustainability report unless there is a risk to public health. The BFSA can only inform and support operators in initiatives that counter food waste. In order to make the meaning of the sustainability data known to both operators in the food chain and consumers, the BFSA has already used different means of communication. For example, a letter was drawn up explaining the different sustainability dates, i.e. the date of minimum durability and the final consumption date and what should be done after the expiry of those dates. The circular can be found on the website of the BFSA. It makes it clear that it is permitted to sell foods whose minimum expiry date has expired, but that this is done under the responsibility of the seller and only after he has thoroughly inspected the product for certain irregularities, such as a torn packaging or abnormal odour. In addition, posters were created and a lot of attention was paid to the difference between the two sustainability dates through the social media and during info sessions. Since the fight against food loss and waste is a regional issue, the BFSA is not the most important authority in this area. This is not strictly part of its core tasks, but the Agency is committed to doing so. The BFSA is more often asked to participate in meetings with the Regions. In that case, it will be happy to participate. However, the Agency is not systematically involved in regional consultations. Rather, it acts as an expert on food safety in support of actions to combat food waste. The Agency also provides support to encourage donations to the needy. A letter about donations was worked out. It provides guidance on the interpretation of shelf life dates, traceability, labelling and freezing of pre-packaged food for food banks and charitable organisations. The Annex to that Letter contains a non-limitative list of foodstuffs which can be used by food banks and charitable organisations as guidance in the assessment of the shelf-life of foodstuffs once the date of minimum shelf-life has been reached or exceeded. This letter is part of a social and sustainable food safety policy with a view to ensuring optimal consumer protection. Food safety at two speeds is out of the question. Everyone, regardless of their economic situation, has the right to safe products. In this context, in 2019, the BFSA launched the Foundations Food Safety project in donations with the aim of listing the difficulties and misunderstandings faced by the actors on the ground and collecting proposals, which nevertheless remain in line with society's expectations. A round table was held in which various stakeholders were present: governments, professional federations, representatives of food banks and charitable organisations. At European level there is also attention to food waste. For example, the European Commission is working on a revision of Regulation No 852/2004 to encourage donation. The Commission's proposal is in line with the actions already undertaken by the BFSA. Thirdly, as regards the steps taken by the BFSA to improve consumer information and thus prevent food waste from the consumer at home, the BFSA's communication service focuses on various online channels. Through communication campaigns, articles on the consumer part of his website, the page for specific campaigns underdeloep.be and messages on social media, consumers get tips and tricks about the two categories of shelf life dates, food preservation, food freezing and the processing of scraps. Traditional media are also used to advise consumers on food safety and waste. The Agency's press service has already brought this issue to the attention of the media, including through broadcasts of popular TV and radio programmes and articles in the newspapers. Consumers also contact the BFSA hotline directly. That way they can talk to a staff member. Based on that input, the finger is held on the wrist. The communication service defines what lives with the consumer and adapts the Agency's communication strategy, if necessary. Evaluating that action is a continuous process. The BFSA also cooperates with organisations such as Test Purchase and Too Good To Go around decay dates and food waste. Too Good To Go has proposed its operation and since then the communication service of the BFSA has been in regular contact with its employees. There have already been some exploratory talks about a date labelling project aimed at the increasing understanding of date labels in Belgium. Currently, Too Good To Go develops a memorandum of understanding. When presented to the BFSA, the Agency will consider whether an active partnership with Too Good To Go can be established for that campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I think you underestimate the BFSA's role in food waste. You say that it is mainly the role of the regions. The resolution, of which we are asking for an update, was indeed written at the federal level and the BFSA really had in mind when we discussed and approved the text. I understand what you are saying, because we have been talking all afternoon about exceedances of the standard, about unsafe products and about things that go wrong, for which the BFSA then takes action. It is about food safety. This is actually a reverse communication, which should reassure the public that certain products are still safe. I realize that a lot has happened, but I think we need to hold on to our efforts. A communication scientist once told me that when we're tired of hearing something, the average man only starts picking it up. I really want to ask you to continue to activate the BFSA's communication service to continue to talk about this, because we still have a lot of work ahead of us in the communication around date indications. The BFSA conducts exploratory talks with Too Good To Go and gives tips and tricks about storageata and the processing of scraps. That is all very well, but I think we should continue to pursue a policy on food waste and perhaps increase it even further. Too Good To Go has a lot of expertise to get started with, to deal with it in a different way. So I would certainly argue for it to be given a fair chance and to enter into these talks. We still have a lot of work to do here. It would be a pity if we did not take a positive approach. It is important to speak positively about it. We will throw away less food, and that is good not only for the consumer's wallet but also for the climate. So there's only one way to gain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u75	Mr Minister, it is about the follow-up to a bill that we adopted in the autumn in the Committee on Health. The hospitality stores were not required to pay contributions to the BFSA in 2020 because of the corona crisis and because they were closed for a long time. The original bill consisted of two parts. On the one hand, it concerned the waiver of the fees of the catering industry and, on the other, the new fees fixed for other producers. We then chose for quick treatment and clarity for the catering industry to split up those two. Before 2020, we decided at the end of September, early October, that the catering industry would not pay any contributions. We would decide on the new contributions for non-horeca matters in the short term, which we would be working on in the short term. Also, we had planned not to wait until September in 2021 to clarify its contributions to the catering industry for 2021. What about the non-horeca business? Is that the initiative of the Members of Parliament? As a minister, can you get on with that? I want to make sure it's going to work. Secondly, what do we do about the catering business in 2021? We already know they won't know normal years because of corona. It is perhaps now time to clarify this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u76	Ms Creemers, the law adopted by Parliament on 27 October 2020 exempts the sector from charges to the BFSA for 2020. This represents a total amount of 10.1 million euros. I asked the BFSA to inform me of the estimated amount of the charges that the agency can claim from the catering industry in 2021. It amounts to EUR 8 million, taking into account the expected activity of this sector in 2021. As regards your second question, I sent a letter to the European Commission on 5 February 2021 to ask whether this measure complies with European State aid rules. The European Commission's agreement will be essential for the further development of this dossier. A favourable response would allow us to have a new law adopted by Parliament, with a view to a new exemption for the catering industry from the charges due to the BFSA for 2021, as was the case in 2020. Finally, a ERMG study carried out in January 2021 analysed the impact of the COVID-19 crisis on the main sectors of the Belgian economy. While our economy suffers an average income loss of 12%, the catering sector is the second most affected sector, after the event sector, with an estimated income loss of 73 %. Because of this dramatic situation, I have committed myself to taking all the necessary measures to provide the catering industry with the necessary support to cope with the long months of closure. At the time of the reopening, they will have to have a maximum amount of cash in order to be able to pay their suppliers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u77	Minister, I am glad that we are in complete agreement on this and that I can conclude my final question for today. It is good that you have already sent that letter to the European Commission that we do not give state aid. I hope that we can quickly bring news to the catering business, that if they can open back in 2021, they will indeed not have to pay a fee to the BFSA. After all, it will be heavy enough already. You also said that work is being done on the other sectors. I am pleased with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u78	Minister, in December, the Federal Agency for Food Chain Security (AFSCA) carried out a check on a farm of the Chièvres entity, a farm that sells meat and dairy products. The visit ended with a seal. One more blow for the Moulin Farm. Indeed, in January 2020, she lost her founder, Dany Dubois, in painful circumstances. AFSCA, which had made a visit after the death, had imposed a series of standards, but in view of the family circumstances, it had granted a period of time to the small farm. Ten months later, while the producers had responded to the requests made during the previous visit, it seems that the AFSCA has come back with new requirements. But this time, the sealing was immediate. The sale ban has resulted in a significant loss of food. The consequences in terms of wasteful quality products, economic loss and demotivation of quality local producers are particularly damaging. In our view, AFSCA must remain a tool for food safety at the service of consumers that stimulates the development of self-control among producers. As a public body, it is also the duty of the AFSCA to serve the general interest, in particular to promote economic development, prosperity and well-being. Mr Minister, do you not think that we should make it an accompanying body instead of a supervisory body imposing regulations for an industrial production and distribution model? Should we not establish rules adapted to the size of the production and its specificities? We must at all costs avoid such events that discourage producers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u79	Mrs Leroy, I think it is necessary to go back to the history of the last controls in this institution, in order to understand the human and empathic approach that AFSCA has shown in this matter and which seems to be ignored by some public opinion despite the AFSCA's communications on this subject last December. The inspection visit was carried out as part of a follow-up following a non-favourable inspection of the slaughter activities in January 2019. During the follow-up visit in April 2020, the controller preferred to postpone the check to a later date, given the complicated and difficult private circumstances of the operator who had just died. This postponement of control is very rarely done because it is the unexpected nature of a visit that makes it possible to verify the smooth running of the usual activities of a company. Almost three months later, AFSCA moved again and significant hygiene deficiencies were found. In such a situation, normally, a report of an infringement is systematically drawn up by the AFSCA and the operator receives a fine but, given the complicated personal situation in the operation – we were indeed after the death – the controller preferred to be flexible and a simple warning was given. Such a warning results in the same follow-up of the AFSCA in the field. A check is then reprogrammed. This flexibility allows no fines to be imposed on the undertaking. With regard to the inspection visit, the controller again showed flexibility and postponed it for two months in order to give more time to the visibly overloaded operation. It was therefore at the beginning of December that the re-checking visit showed a situation which was totally unacceptable for an active establishment in the food industry. Three days of closure were granted in order to allow for an orderly and adequate level of hygiene without further measures to ban longer-term activities. As a result, the efforts made were positively taken into account by the controllers and the activity was able to resume immediately. Accompaniment was also offered by the AFSCA. He was allegedly refused by the managers. The Agency has therefore adopted a balanced approach allowing the operator to put itself in order, on the one hand, and the Agency to carry out its consumer protection mission, on the other. In answer to your other questions, contrary to what you are proposing, and even if I wish, it is not legally possible to transform the Agency into an accompanying institution. There is a European framework legislation, the General Food Law, which states that the primary responsibility for the safety of a food product lies with companies, from the producer to the retail trade. This and other legislation since then require Member States to monitor that operators active in the food chain assume their responsibilities and to implement ad hoc legislation to that end. The European Commission then checks whether the competent authorities fulfil this supervisory and supervisory role. In Belgium, AFSCA is the competent authority. Food safety rules are essentially laid down at European level and, as far as national normative aspects are concerned, they fall within the competence of the FPS Public health and safety of the food chain. Within this framework, the AFSCA proposes certain operational laws, including those that allow for easing. Many administrative burdens, frequency of checks or obligation to analyse are also much less burdensome for smaller companies. It is totally wrong to think that the rules are the same regardless of the size of the business. As far as support is concerned, it should be borne in mind that this task was entrusted to the Regions during the regionalisation of agriculture, while that of controls was maintained at the federal level. In recent years, however, the AFSCA has set up and developed a strong support unit, which complements and works closely with the regional bodies and the professional organisations concerned, in order to help small producers very concretely to implement the ad hoc measures enabling them to comply with their obligations. The aim of this support is to place on the market products that do not pose a risk to consumers. For example, in addition to the many training courses it organises, I can mention the implementation in 2018 and 2019 of a project to accompany farmers in the creation and sale of meat packages on the farm. This project was in response to growing demand from farmers. They have therefore been carefully accompanied in this regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u80	Minister, thank you for your answer. Several aspects need to be considered. We will not go back to regionalised accompaniment, which can cause difficulties when it takes place on one side, while control is carried out on the other. Nevertheless, you remind us that the AFSCA is in charge of this. In my view, this support should be strengthened, since it is best able to know what will be subject to control. If it was refused, while it had been proposed, it was probably due to a breach of trust. For having been particularly touched by the stories of these people and for having also read the AFSCA's answers, I think that we are facing a breakdown of trust, hence the difficulty. If it had not happened, the accompaniment could have taken place. We can always develop an interpretation of history. On the one hand, we are told that we have been flexible, given the situation. On the other hand, we are assured that we have undertaken all the adjustments, showing good will, despite the extreme difficulty of the situation. It is on this issue that more work should be done to prevent such a scenario from happening again. Of course, it is only three days of closure. Nevertheless, these seals have been placed on food, resulting in an economic loss that can be irreparable for small production. Thank you very much, Minister. In any case, we will keep in touch, because I will still inquire about those people who were particularly affected by this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u81	Ms. Thibaut, the AFSCA follows up on the recommendations and finalizes an evaluation and implementation report on the recommendations made by the Federal Internal Audit Service (FSAI) in the two audit reports requested following the Veviba case. I will also present an update on the implementation of these recommendations to the House's Health Committee on 2 March. With regard to your first question concerning the determination of the operator's risk profile, I would like to point out that, since the audits of the Federal Internal Audit Service, the new European Control Regulation 2017/625 has become applicable and that the current approach of the AFSCA to determining the operator's risk profile takes into account the new requirements that have been recorded in this regard. In some cases, the size of the operator is already part of the AFSCA approach. The advantages and disadvantages of integrating additional information, including the size of the operator, were assessed. However, it is not yet possible to make an effective decision to integrate additional information. This requires additional scientific expertise which can be sought within the Scientific Committee. In addition, it is planned in the future to move progressively towards a more specific risk profile of an operator, taking into account available resources and technical possibilities, also on the basis of a sectoral approach. This integration will take place gradually, but is certainly part of the Agency's objectives. With regard to your second question, I can confirm that, following the remarks made during the IFS audit, the inspection control methodology of the AFSCA has been reviewed. It has now been decided to work with a base perimeter that will be systematically used during inspection missions and combined with thematic perimeters. This approach will make it possible to prioritise, during checks, the essential elements for ensuring food security. The monitoring of the business action plan following an audit of the self-monitoring system and the monitoring of non-compliances identified during the audit are part of the new baseline. An adverse result on these elements would immediately lead to a rigorous assessment of control and rapid action. Furthermore, in this context, a significant adjustment has been made to an AFSCA computer application. From now on, certification bodies must also report new information such as the number of non-conformities found and their severity systematically and by audit to AFSCA. This adjustment will allow AFSCA's control of the validation of the self-control system to operate even more efficiently, while taking greater account of the size of the operator.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u82	Minister, I will take note of your answer and come back to you, if necessary, at our meeting in March.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u83	Mrs Thibaut, as stated in my general policy note, the safety of the food chain is a top priority. Agriculture, its suppliers, the agri-food industry, the distribution of food products to the final consumer, as well as other links in this chain, are closely linked to the safety of the food chain and responsible for the animal and plant products they hold and/or place on the market. Ensuring animal and plant products and safe fork-to-fork feeding is an ongoing challenge that has as its common and primary objective to provide the consumer with healthy and high-quality products. Healthy food production, healthy animals and plants, all carried out within the framework of a sustainable and concerted approach, are also a guarantee of profitability and sustainability for our farmers and all actors in the food chain. It is our duty to take care of it. I believe that the AFSCA is an institution of great public benefit. It is therefore essential to continue the momentum for continuous improvement of the Agency. As you know, in order to make it even more effective and more armed in the face of this type of crisis, the Federal Internal Audit Service carried out two audits under the previous legislature, which resulted in the drafting of more than 100 recommendations. The role of the AFSCA, which is omnipresent throughout the agri-food chain, calls for a logic of tutelage by the Minister of Agriculture. I am therefore in favour of maintaining the current situation which is preferable for producers and consumers. Indeed, the operators controlled and accompanied by the AFSCA are farmers and operators acting in food processing and distribution. I have also heard frequent contacts with the Minister of Health. There is a protocol for the sharing of powers signed by myself, as Minister of Agriculture, and by my colleague the Minister of Health, Frank Vandenbroucke. This protocol was signed at the beginning of the legislature, on the basis of the previous protocol, applicable between our respective predecessors. The two firms therefore work in constant consultation on issues of shared competence, such as Sciensano.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u84	Minister, thank you. I note that your position has not changed since our last debate, when you presented your policy note. I will not fail to return to you. We all have our own ideology. You're making your interpretations of the audit. Everyone can have their own interpretation. I think it deserves a debate. I will also ask Mr Vandenbroucke the question for his opinion on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u85	Mrs de Laveleye, to answer your first question about the duration of the provisional limit, I can tell you that the warehouses where potatoes are stored have sometimes been treated with chlorpropham for many years, hence their contamination. The walls and floors contain residues and this substance can be released. Therefore, potatoes stored in these warehouses may contain residues of chlorpropham, even if they have not been treated with chlorpropham. On the basis of the opinion of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) and in consultation with the Member States, the Commission has decided to set a provisional maximum residue limit of 0.4 mg per kg for chlorpropham in potatoes. This limit should be sufficient to cover possible residual contamination due to historical use in warehouses despite extensive cleaning. It is considered safe by EFSA for the consumer. This limit is not frozen in time and an annual review is planned. This temporary limit shall be reviewed on the basis of the monitoring data submitted to the Commission by 31 December of each year at the latest. This will allow it to reassess the situation and gradually reduce the levels, if any, as the implementation of a better cleaning methodology progresses. A report on the development and implementation of these cleaning practices should also be submitted to the Commission together with the monitoring data. With regard to your second question, since follow-up is planned at European level, there is no need to provide for additional actions at Belgian level. Belgium will provide, as planned, the results of the monitoring to the European Commission. Finally, with regard to your third question, my services have not received any complaints on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic367x.u86	Minister, thank you for your answers. If I understand correctly, Belgium, like any other European country, must simply align itself with the Commission's decision whether or not to extend the derogation. I see you opining. We had been alerted by the health sector on the Walloon side. He was concerned that this derogation would allow part of the potato sector to play with the margins provided for by this new European ban. It would be interesting to follow up on whether the figures in Belgium are different from other countries and how the sector, which needs to be supported, can best comply with the ban on this product, which is harmful to health. We will be able to come back to the subject once the Commission has advanced.
