ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u1	Madam Secretary, in 2023, for the first time since the 1990s, a high-intensity divisional exercise has been planned for the French army. In accordance with the 2030 strategic vision, all French military capabilities will be deployed on a scale that has not been tested for decades. Orion would be a multi-environment maneuver to simulate a major conflict. We are told that in addition to the French forces, British, American and Belgian will be involved in this division exercise in Northern France, hence the following questions, Madam Secretary. Can you explain the French practice operation and the possible involvement of our Defense Department? Which units may be eligible and frame the possible Belgian participation in Orion in the operationalisation of the CaMo project? Will there also be exercises from the French camps on West Flemish soil? France is taking rapid steps in the preparation of a large-scale conflict. Which opponents or threats does it look at in concrete terms? Does the Defence Department share the French analysis and will it strive on a similar basis for combined arms operations on a larger scale in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u2	Mr Francken, the exact date of the Orion exercise is not yet known, but it will take place around February 2023. The Belgian Defence has been invited to contribute to this through the Scorpion CaMo partnership with France. The country component intends to participate with a combined arms tactical group of groupement tactique interarmes in French terminology, with infantry and support and with some augmentees. The scenario will take place in two phases, with the first activation of the national emergency echelon, followed by a divisional-level operation with a high combat intensity. The participation of Belgian Defence is fully in line with the operationalisation of the Scorpion CaMo partnership and the interoperability between the two nations. The units haven't been designated yet. As the scenario is still in the development phase, it is not yet possible to geographically align the field of practice. As with any exercise, a generic exercise opponent is used, based on NATO standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u3	Madam Minister, I am delighted that we will participate in this in principle. There is nothing concrete yet, such as the date, which troops will participate and what exactly will happen. I will follow that up, but I am pleased that we will participate in that exercise. It is good that after the many years of negotiation and after the Operation Vigilant Guardian there are some more operations and exercises of this level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u4	Madam Secretary, on 19 March, a joint mission of Foreign Affairs and Defence to Niger partner country for bilateral negotiations in the framework of the comprehensive approach. It was former Minister Flahaut, who started working with the country in 2003. Since 2017 we have also been militaryly present as part of Operation New Nero (ONN) to make the country militaryly resilient against the advancing influence of jihadist groups in the Sahel. Can you explain the mission, in particular as regards the military component of the talks? What synergies would be created with development cooperation in the country? There is also a confirmed deployment of Defence in Niger in the framework of ONN in 2021. Has there been any mention of an extension of the stakes in 2022? What are the possible expectations of our partner country about the increase or reduction of the Belgian commitment? How does Defense see its long-term strategy in the country, which, despite a first successful democratic transfer of power, still has a major instability? Does the DOD study the possibilities associated with a longer-term development? What are its current objectives and exit strategy? What assets can Defense offer alongside trainers and SOF to boost operations in Niger?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u5	Mr Francken, a defence staff reconnaissance mission visited Niamey from 22 to 25 March to discuss with the Nigerian staff the modalities for the continuation of ONN. The objective of the ONN military assistance mission is to promote the resilience of the host security forces by supporting the battalions deployed in the area of missing capabilities and by assisting in the implementation of the operations. The purpose of the visit was also to examine with the various Belgian actors, including Development Cooperation and Foreign Affairs, how the continuation of the operation could be an opportunity to develop a comprehensive approach by bringing together the various Belgian initiatives around a local secure pool. The defence staff is currently examining a concrete proposal in line with that objective. A multidimensional project that combines the work of development cooperation and a Belgian-Nigerese military presence will enable us to strengthen the effects of each other's actions. This will directly benefit the population and increase our visibility and expertise. Operation New Nero may be continued in 2022 with a view to achieving the objective of promoting the resilience of Niger's security forces. The step-by-step approach will make it possible to study possible additional support, depending on local needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u6	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Meanwhile, I'm constantly getting in here information about the man on the run. It is a pity that I could not put a question on this, because it would be interesting to see how things could have gone so wrong. For your sake, I hope no one gets killed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u7	Mr President, Minister, in September 2020 I questioned your predecessor, Minister Goffin, about a series of bottlenecks in improving the reserve. He then mentioned several projects that were about to improve the statute. However, I understand from the field that many of these changes have not yet been made. A project was set up around the day betting for recall days. The daily wager system with a ratio of 1/30 month bet would be replaced by a more market-based scheme, a ratio of 1/20, so that members of the operational reserve would receive a full monthly wager for their twenty days. What is the status of this project? Is this continuing and generalised? Revocation days are often difficult for the employer. Therefore, a project employee support would be launched to support reservists and employers. What does this project mean in concrete terms? Has it had a positive effect and will it be continued if necessary? Since most of the members of the operational reserve come from the public sector, does this programme focus, for example, on administrations, fire brigades and police forces? Defence covers work accidents during recall days, but once the recalls have been carried out, the consequences are no longer covered. Defense would take out an insurance policy to cover the entire recovery period. For this purpose, a prior agreement was launched with favourable advice from DG Bud Fin, the GMR and IF. Will you give us an update? Is this insurance gonna be there, and when? By 2021, the project would provide dual learning for a target group of students between 18 and 26 years of age, creating the possibility to pursue military civil training for certain bottleneck professions, through the reserve status. What's the status of the DOD on this? Has this project already been operationalized? Is this formula successful with students?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u8	Mr President, Minister, for the sake of clarity, I also hope that nothing will happen to that military, not necessarily to you, but to the general interest. It seems to me to be a normal reaction to hope that nothing specific will happen. As a result of the debate on your policy statement, the reserve was discussed very extensively in committee. I have asked questions about this before. My question dates back to 17 April and is now somewhat dated. That is why I would like to add a few questions. Madam Secretary, in general, are you working on a plan to make the reserve more attractive and to provide answers to the legitimate aspirations and questions of many reservists? Do you have a meeting? I'd like an update. More specifically, a statutory permanent official carrying out a reserve mission shall not be reimbursed for this. Is this problem included in the exercise? A citizen who is active in the private sector and still wants to become a reservist is a very difficult problem. I asked you about this on 17 March, as a result of the cooperation between the Dutch armed forces and a number of private companies, which can serve as inspiration. You then replied that partnerships with the business world will be discussed later. Since we're a little late now, how do you see that? Is there any news on this? Where are the plans for raising the fees for days spent? The previous speaker also asked that question. Some reservists opt for the operational reserve, with possibly even a stake in a foreign operation currently in Lithuania, for example, if I am in favour of it, while other reservists are invited by Defence itself because of their specific expertise or academic contribution. The approach and finality seem to me different for both groups. Yet, for example in the field of medical research, both groups of reservists are considered as one corps, one and the same function, which makes some people drop out of the boat. Will you also take action on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I will also stick to the subject, rather than making inappropriate remarks in between. This is indeed about the reservists. I then involved it in the training of defence and security, which we have already talked about in the past. This starts this autumn in Flanders and then Wallonia, in sixteen schools. There seems to be a problem with lessons taught by reservists. You announced this in committee on 10 February 2021. On March 17, 2021 we talked about the revocation days for reservists. Apparently, there would be a distinction in teaching between someone from the active framework and someone from the reserve framework. I had a specific question about that. What exactly is the situation? Is that indeed a problem and is there a solution? I would also like to have a general state of affairs about the training itself, which, of course, interests us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u10	Mr President, the national associations of the reserveists are regularly consulted on the main bottlenecks for the reserveists. The possible exemptions for the reserve military working as an official are provided for in the law of 16 May 2001 on the status of the military under the reserve framework. This provision shall not apply to the reserve military employed in the private sector. For the latter, it is the collective agreements and contracts, established by the employer, which determine whether the person concerned is to take leave days and/or receive service exemptions for the benefit of Defence. The statutory official shall receive the difference between his wager as a military wager, to which he/she is entitled, on the one hand, on the basis of his/her degree and status, and the wager as a statutory official on the other hand. The problems of those working in the private sector were contacted with the business community. There are ongoing discussions to pool and explore the ideas about employee support. The daily wager for the recall days has been increased from one thirty to one twentieth of the wager of an active military of the same degree and has been applicable since 1 January 2021. A public contract was launched with regard to the accidents at work during the re-vocational days. The contract is expected to be concluded by the last trimester of 2021. The medical examination for an employee and therefore also for the reserve military is laid down by law. At present, there is no distinction between an operational reserve and an administrative reserve, as there is no such reserve for the military of the active framework, because everyone must be able to be deployed in an operation. Several dual learning projects have been launched. A project runs in collaboration with the VDAB of Leopoldsburg, where the 18th Battalion Logistics was recognised as an educational institution, but the training has not yet started by COOVID-19. An application for recognition is ongoing for the training of a large kitchen employee in Lombardsijde in collaboration with the VDAB. Talks between Defence, FOREM and IFAPME are ongoing to start a project dual learning in the 4th Battalion Logistics of Marche-en-Famenne. Planning related to the Defence and Security programme for the school year 2021-2022 in Flanders is currently being prepared in close consultation with the schools. Registrations have already started and are dealt with directly by the schools. According to the first echoes, it seems to be a great success, but the final figures will not be known until the end of the registration period. The schools provide the promotion of the new subject area directly to the pupils. When reservists will teach in the new field of study, performance in the form of revocational days will be carried out according to the classical regime.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u11	Thank you, Madam Secretary. It is very important to find solutions for our reserves. The improvement of the statute, which was already addressed by former Minister Vandeput, like Minister Goffin, is a very important point. We will certainly follow up on how you proceed;, because there are still a lot of gaps in the statute. I hear that regularly from reservists themselves, who do not always have to combine tasks easily. A lot of promises have been made and we will continue to follow up on their implementation over the next few weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u12	Indeed, many promises were made by previous ministers and also by you in your policy paper. There's a lot of work to be done for that particular group of soldiers. I refer to what I said on 17 March: it is very important to make appointments now with large private players, following the Dutch example. The collective agreement is indeed the basis. That is normal, but it is equally important as an example that we make such agreements with a number of key national players. There's a lot going on when you talk about the DOD and Security training. We all hope that this training will be a success. However, I fear that there is a potential problem when reservists are asked to give lessons and take leave of their ordinary job, when they are barely paid or not paid for it. I am somewhat sorry about your reply to the medical examination. I'm referring to a specific file. A person was approached by the Defense Department; the wanted profile was almost written to his size. He was academically educated, but was rejected because of an eye problem. What the hell are we doing? In the end, is it not the intention to send that man with weapons to Lithuania in the operational reserve? That man was brought in for his academic expertise. It's anecdotal, but I want to share it with you anyway, and I'll go into it further. It is particularly important that we do not waste any time and that we use the next few months to work out a real statute for the reserves with everything we need.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u13	Madam Secretary, I do not have much to add. Our questions show that we think the reserveists are important. The inequality really needs to be eliminated, especially when it comes to concrete dossiers. To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u14	Madam Secretary, a lot has been said and written in recent weeks about Operation Barkhane. This is a very sensitive issue within the government and in Europe, of course also for the French. There will undoubtedly be a lot of discussions about this. The government has decided not to participate in Operation Barkhane 2022. Can you give any explanation for that decision? What elements were decisive for the Defense Department not to engage in a development? How did France react to the Belgian postponement of the mission? To what extent did they already rely on participation by our country? You have communicated that the French did not know that we would not participate in this year. I doubt that, but I assume you're telling the truth. I certainly have no evidence to the contrary. Are we expected to participate in the operation in 2022? After all, I assume that question will not be ignored. Is Operation Barkhane completely out of your intentions? Operation Takuba is moving slowly. Will greater participation in this more European-oriented option in the Sahel also be considered as a possibility? What can the DOD offer this task force, apart from the liaison officers who are already participating? When could there be a participation in 2022 and when should the Defence Department submit its proposals to the Government? Is the French question for participation in 2022 the same one we received earlier, in particular the deployment of a CATSG?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u15	Due to several factors, such as the unforeseen extension of the Resolute Support Mission NATO mission in Afghanistan and the reorientation and development of new initiatives and deployments under the Coalition pour le Sahel, Defence has had to revise its operational planning for 2021. These factors have led to the fact that the start-up of a new large-scale deployment in 2021, combined with ongoing operations at home and abroad, is currently not feasible. The contacts between the Belgian and French defence forces on this commitment were purely informative, without formal or informal commitments being entered into. Therefore, the deletion of the 2021 deployment option did not give rise to negative reactions from the French side. Both defence units remain in close contact with a view to further analysing options for possible future operational cooperation. The Defence Staff is currently looking at the different deployment options for 2022. A possible extension of the Belgian operational commitment in the Sahel, whether or not within the Takuba Task Force, will be the subject of a dossier for the Council of Ministers and a parliamentary debate. The global dossier of operations for 2022 will be submitted to the Government for decision in the last trimester of 2021. France has launched a general call to the European countries for wider participation in military operations in the Sahel, and more specifically for conventional troops supporting the Takuba Task Force.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u16	Your answer is very interesting. You say not to participate, because the withdrawal from Afghanistan will take longer. In the agreement with the Taliban it was stipulated that it would take place earlier. That will now be by 9/11. You also say that the defence staff is looking at new forms of deployment in the Sahel. What do you mean by that? What kind of commitment do you mean, for this year? You are also literally saying that there have been no negative reactions to the decision not to participate. I read something else. I just read that there have been very negative reactions to your decision not to participate. So I do not understand your answer in this respect. Finally, you say that France's request focuses on Task Force Takuba. I understand that the French therefore no longer wish to participate in Operation Barkhane in 2022. Or do they still want to? Did they trade Barkhane in for Takuba, as it were?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u17	Madam Secretary of State refers to your next oral question, Mr Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u18	Mr President, I have been asking about this dossier for months. I'm being sanctioned for that. It is said here that the French have not given negative reactions. In the press, the Minister claims the opposite, thus contradicting herself. The Minister talks about the Sahel, but says nothing about Operation Barkhane in 2022. I hope that Parliament will receive serious answers. The same applies to the budget. I also asked how the increase in the salary of our soldiers will be paid, but I did not receive an answer. I find the way in which the Minister deals with Parliament to a lesser extent, Mr President, and I wish to complain about that. Parliament, and certainly the opposition, has the right to ask questions and get answers. We are waiting months for answers, which then turn out to be meaningless. That's below par. In the end, I had to learn from the newspaper how the wage increase will be paid, and even then it was not clear. I do not know anything about the budget either, because the discussions are taking place elsewhere. Secondly, here too, you are flagrantly contradicting yourself. It's punishment that I'm being sanctioned for having negative reactions from the French. If I question you officially, you will answer that there have been no negative reactions from the French. What's the deal, anyway? It's a very strange way of working, which I take note of. I note that the majority continues to support you with great enthusiasm. We will see how much longer that will take.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u19	The Minister no longer wishes to respond, of which he has taken note.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u20	Mr President, I would like to say a few words. For the rest, I will not interfere in the cat-and-mouse game that is going on here, but it is not the case that the French were sanctioned for the reaction of the French. There was a breach of confidentiality. That's a big difference. Things need to be told right here. Respect for Parliament also means making things right. I see that Mr Francken wants to react again. Those are the facts. I have also read that colleagues in the media have responded to the whole fuss. I will not say anything about this because everything has already been discussed behind closed doors, but the facts are the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u21	It is not the intention to discuss this further, but for the sake of a personal fact, I will give Mr Francken the floor briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u22	Mr Pillen, throughout the discussion on the potential breach of confidentiality, there has been a clear communication from the cabinet that there was a diplomatic problem with my communication because the French had not been informed, which has led to a negative reaction. That's officially communicated. Those are the facts. Now I am asking that question explicitly and suddenly it is said that there have been no negative reactions, which I find very strange. I'm allowed to notice that, aren't I? It's not forbidden to notice when someone says "A" and a few weeks later suddenly "B"? I know you're following things very well and that you're wise. I know that you have heard the same thing, and at least that will raise questions for you. I don't doubt that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u23	Mr Francken, I will not forbid anyone here, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u24	Madam Secretary, the A958, as the Zenobe Gramme officially called, was under discussion. Here, too, my question of 17 April has unfortunately already been dated. I saw on Twitter a nice picture of the Zenobe lying in the dock in her usual place. My first question, when the ship could be reassigned, lapses. That was last week. Until when will the A958 be kept in service? If that vessel will be taken out of service, will the Defense plan a replacement of this type of ship, i.e. a school or training sailing ship, which can be used for training, but also for internships and for public relations, an important role for Defense in the 21st century? Can the ship play a role in the current necessary reception and training of new recruits? There are problems with capacity. The Navy is extremely popular, but currently has too few ships to accommodate those recruits. As regards the training, you indicated earlier that the Navy is currently considering, for example, whether Belgian recruits can be placed on Dutch or French ships and whether foreign ships can not be hired to accommodate those recruits. Can you give us an update on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u25	The A958 Zenobe Gramme is now out of maintenance and has been operational again since last Monday, May 17. A possible replacement of the Zenobe Gramme will be studied. Its boarding capacity of nine places is maximised and continuously used for the current reception and training of the new naval recruits. In July 2021, some twenty pupils and teachers on board French naval ships.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u26	Madam Minister, it is very positive that the step has been taken to accommodate some 20 people on French ships. That's another 20 people who can learn the metier they've chosen. That's very positive. I understand you can't tell me immediately what's happening to the Zenobe Gramme, since she just got back from maintenance. However, take into account the long-term prospects that if within a few years the relatively small Zenobe will finally be put ashore, we might have to look at a larger variant of such a ship for its replacement. There were plans about that within the Defense Department, but those plans have been buried for several reasons, which I understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u27	Mr President, Minister, with the purchase of 34 F-35 aircraft, the total number of fighter jets will be substantially reduced. It was chosen to maintain the spread between the Air Bases of Kleine-Brogel and Florennes, but this reduces the number of available aircraft per operational unit. In 2000, in the case of a phasing-out programme of the number of F-16s, the Falcon 2000 restructuring plan was implemented, which provided for a reduction in the number of operational F-16 narrow parts, ranging from 6 to 4. In Kleine-Brogel meant that the dissolution of the 23rd squadron, Florennes lost the 2nd squadron. That is why I would like to ask you how this will be dealt with when the F-35 arrives. Madam Secretary, does the Defense intend to keep both the 31st and 349th squadron in Kleine-Brogel and the 1st and 350th squadron in Florennes operational, or will there be a reduction? In case of a shrinkage, how many small parts are we talking about? Which squadrons will be disbanded, if any, when, and how does Defense make the choice? In case of conservation of squadrons, how many aircraft, pilots and support staff will be assigned to each of the four squadrons? What impact will that have on the organisation at both air bases, ranging from staffing to command structure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u28	The two operating narrow sections per air base will be maintained and will operate as an integrated whole in a common infrastructure, with centralised planning, support and associated services. Among other things, mission planning and training, built around a full flight simulator cluster, the maintenance part and the safety dispositive will be fully in common at the service of the narrow parts. A dissolution of the operating narrow parts is therefore not planned. The 34 F-35A devices are not allocated to narrow parts. The 17 F-35A provided per air base will be integrated, managed, planned and used by both operating narrow sections. This concept is already being applied today for the F-16. 67 F-35A pilots to be housed in the various squadrons are currently being provided, with some of the necessary framework at the level of two units on the one hand, and the headquarters of the air component on the other. The study on support staff is in full swing. Support staff will not be assigned to narrow parts, but will also be deployed as an integrated whole. The command structure of the air bases is based on three so-called groups: a flying, maintenance and a defense and support group. This structure will not change.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u29	So, Mr President, Madam Minister, you say that the four narrow parts are preserved. One may wonder what the finality of these two narrow parts per air base is if this is integrated as a whole. If this happens in the perspective of an extension of the F-35 programme and one opts in a growth scenario to keep the narrow parts all operational, you will find a partner in us. But I'll repeat it. When it comes to retaining narrow parts, while one still speaks of integration into one whole, one must be careful what the finality of those narrow parts is. I look forward to the plans you will submit to upgrade the number of F-35 devices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u30	Madam Minister, we have discussed cooperation with the Netherlands on several occasions in the past. You know that this is a point of interest to us. It is a point that we are following with particular attention. We have seen a document from the Dutch Navy, which shows that not everything there is rose scent and moonshine. There would be a shortage, according to that internal note, of 74 million euros in the Dutch Navy for 2021. This deficit would continue to increase in the coming years unless additional investment is made. That note refers to a bow wave effect for 2022 and beyond. There would be serious consequences in the longer term, with the completion of the contracts no longer possible. We have already had to cut the supply of mine hunters. Maintenance is delayed and exercises were deleted. There are also fewer spare parts. That sounds pretty familiar to us. However, the main problem would be the shortage of staff. There are no reserves. The failure of key positions hampers operationality. The recruitment of more staff creates immediate budgetary problems. As I said, these are symptoms we know. Madam Secretary, under the motto never washed a good crisis, I have a few punctual questions. Are there conversations ongoing within BeNeSam how better coordination of investment, recruitment and training could solve these problems, which ultimately weigh on the entire unified Admiralty? Belgium is pushing its recruitment for the Navy with 1,000 new staff by 2025, which would mean that there may be too few available ships for the number of staff and a rotation system should be employed. Are you thinking of any structured cooperation with the Netherlands to do permanent binational creation to deal with shortages in the occupation of the ships, especially with regard to key positions? The Netherlands suffers from a serious lack of education, which is reflected in the overall operationality of BeNeSam. What structural solutions can Belgium offer to help its partner? Given the overlapping problems of recruitment and budgeting, should the Netherlands and Belgium not use the momentum to achieve deeper and further integration with a common fleet budget and operationality?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u31	Madam Minister, Mr Buysrogge has already given a very comprehensive introduction, to which I will not add much. Like him, I have questions about efficiency gains. For example, are there any additional possibilities in terms of budget, staff and so on? After all, the problems are quite similar. What is your position on further integration in the form of the development of joint crews? Is that integration on the table? Now sails or sails sporadically a member or some members of one Navy along with the other Navy. Are binational crews really on the table? According to the Dutch press, a possible merger of the two navy was even mentioned at a very high level. This raises questions about sovereignty, especially in view of the difference in vision on certain issues and action theatres. Madam Minister, if that is on the table and you are open to it, what are the conditions that are absolutely attached to it? Do you see, because both Navys face the same problems, for example, more intensive cooperation with civilian shipping? I am thinking, for example, of fire-fighting, training and training. Our two countries have a strong maritime tradition, despite the fact that we only have 65 kilometres of coast. Are there any possibilities in that respect? Finally, I would like to return to my earlier question on training ships. Are there any possibilities or have the Dutch ships that have been docked or will be laid at the docks already been examined, if necessary, to be used for us in the context of the problem of training? I suppose the ship Johan De Wit is a little too big for that, but maybe other ships are possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u32	Investment is a national matter, with a permanent effort to create a synchronised investment calendar for both countries to realise binational projects. In view of the particularity of national legislation and the Staff Regulations, including on recruitment, remuneration, promotion and retirement, no binational recruitment initiatives are planned between the HR services of the two countries. Training courses have been binational where possible for a long time. During regular binational meetings and consultations there are constant discussions on this subject. The hoped-for result of the increased recruitment aims to address the shortage of personnel on shore and on board, inter alia through retirement. Binational creation is a good option to cope with shortages, as well as to gain and exchange experience. This principle is already being applied punctually, pending a binational concept. It is also the practice to man the first new mine-fighting ships binationally in order to achieve a rapid, common knowledge building for mine-fighting. The Belgian navy also struggled with limited training capacity and cannot currently offer a structural solution for the Netherlands. The Navy is also looking for solutions to increase training capacity through other foreign Navys. Binational schools and operational staff illustrate the existing intense cooperation between the two Navys. Given the national specificity of budget and staff regulations, no further cooperation is envisaged in binational operational support and recruitment. In view of the sovereign maritime, political and economic interests and priorities of both governments, which may sometimes be different and which take precedence over BeNeSam in the existing agreements, a merger of the two Navys is therefore not a matter for discussion. In addition to existing cooperation such as binational coordination with civil shipping, there are currently no new binational initiatives aimed at further cooperation with civil shipping through BeNeSam. Our main effort is currently directed towards the ongoing acquisition, placing in service, training, training and operation of the new binational mine fighting fleet and surface combatant. The shortage of key personnel in both Navys does not permit today, even with a mixed crew, to deploy more than the currently planned number of ships for training and training.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u33	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. You confirm that a number of ideas are being explored, such as binational creation and further synchronization. We fully agree with that. I was somewhat surprised by the position of Mr Pillen, who pointed out the possible risks with regard to sovereignty, which is also important for Open Vld. If we say that, we were labeled as scary nationalists, but Mr Pillen tells us here. There are, of course, differences in legislation between the two countries, but I am aware that there is a great deal of interest in the Navy to develop cooperation even more strongly. As far as we're concerned, it can go a long way. We are certainly open to examining the ultimate goal, a possible fusion, but not because of any savings or whatever, for reasons of greater operationality than hitherto. Be sure to look into that and try to continue along that path. You will find an ally in us to work that out further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u34	Mr Buysrogge, I am beginning to suspect you are an oraniste in the Belgian tradition. Of course, I have sympathy for that current, at least in some areas. All madness, Madam Minister, I thank you for your very clear answer. Mr Buysrogge, I think we are entirely in line with the Minister: a merger is too far-reaching because of sovereignty and because of other foreign policy choices. Your answer, Madam Minister, has clearly shown that we took the path of integration decades ago and that it only leads to further integration. The elements you have listed in your reply have made this all the more clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u35	Madam Minister, this is a follow-up question on a problem that I raised earlier this year, in particular the late payment of military personnel due to problems with the HRM@Defence computer system. The system was introduced at the end of last year to regulate the payment of salaries and premiums on the basis of administrative data. The aim was to simplify a number of cases administratively, but in practice this was not always the case. Since its introduction, a number of complaints have been followed by military personnel who have not been fully paid out. The amount even increased to thousands of euros for some staff. We have heard a testimony from a soldier who has just returned from a foreign mission and the amount that Defense would still owe him increased to over 7,000 euros. Of course, that's not a detail. It is a major problem that sometimes gives rise to distressing financial situations among defence personnel and their families. The CHOD recently confirmed that he had heard a large number of complaints in recent weeks and months about late payments, as well as about the lack of clear communication and the increase in working pressure in the Defense Department. This, of course, causes frustration among our army staff, which may have an impact on the working and working environment. You confirmed at the beginning of this year that one of the reasons is that the personnel themselves have to enter some data into the HRM computer system, while it is not always clear to them how that system works. The CHOD reported that the partner company Capgemini is working closely with them to solve the problems in the field as soon as possible. However, as has already been said, this has not been possible at the moment. Madam Secretary, what is the current state of play on financial compensation for salaries and contributions for defence personnel? What are the amounts involved? Which are the affected personnel groups? How is cooperation with the partner company currently going? Where's the responsibility? Will we continue to work with this system? After all, you have said before that we absolutely must evaluate this. What about those childhood diseases? Does the increased workload in the Defense Department relate solely to this HRM problem or also to the structural shortage of personnel that still exists, despite all efforts? How many additional staff through the Rosetta plan are needed at the moment to solve the problem? How long is that for? What is the additional cost of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u36	Madam Minister, the problems and the context have already been outlined by the previous speaker. The problem continues to drag on. Meanwhile, there are already 512 applications for direct payment for urgent reasons. That is a huge amount, especially since it is only the most poignant cases. According to the president of the VSOA, however, the risks of the new system were already known in December, even before the entry into force of the HRM@Defence software program. In three and a half months, Capgemini was asked for more than 100 software adjustments, just for the Planning, Validation and Registration module. This raises serious questions about the evaluation and implementation of the new system. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Like any employer, Defense must comply with the Pay Protection Act. In some cases, the delay in paying out amounts to more than four months. Will the Department of Defense compensate the injured for this? If so, in what way? What is the precise state of play with regard to the new system? What mistakes have already been resolved and where are there any problems? Can you explain the public tender that preceded it? Why did they finally choose this system? What other software systems were considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u37	Madam Minister, a great deal has already been said and I shall confine myself to my questions. Can you give me an update? How's the communication going with the staff? At the end of April, there were more than 630 detected problems. How many have been discovered and how many have been solved? That number is constantly fluctuating, which makes sense. The date of 1 July was put forward as a target date at which all problems must be resolved. Will that date be met according to the current state of affairs?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u38	The testing and evaluation of HRM@Defence has been prepared since 2019 in accordance with the specifications of the specifications before going into production. 18 test runs were carried out with six weeks between each step to make the necessary improvements. No findings were made which had a blocking effect on the system's entry into service. In the field of performance, a hundred and fifty different technical problems have been identified in the planning, validation and registration module since its launch on 4 January 2021. This is a complex matter where each problem requires a separate analysis and in practice it is very often about a combination of multiple causes, such as software problems, incorrect configuration parameters, wrong data from the past and user errors. About half of these technical problems have now been solved, in cooperation with the firm. The HRM@Defence project was carried out through a public tender providing for the purchase of the software, the integration of the solution and a maintenance contract. Of the seven tenderers, a negotiated procedure was conducted after selection with three remaining tenderers. Two of the three proposals were based on the product Oracle PeopleSoft. The third proposal was based on the software SAP. In the current state of betting and premiums, the distinction must be made between the corresponding allowances and allowances on the one hand and the benefits on the other. No significant differences were identified, regardless of the staff group or component. Through several channels and at different times, staff were informed that, if a staff member experiences financial difficulties due to a possible late payment, a dedicated central service set up for this purpose could be contacted, which would then proceed to an immediate payment of the pecuniary right. In the meantime, the betting section and the associated fees and allowances are proceeding correctly. Therefore, with a few exceptions, there are no late payments in this context, but automatic corrections for previously established derogations. In the meantime, the problems initially identified in the calculation at the technical level have been resolved, so that the calculation is now correct for all, provided that the data elements in the system are correct and fully present. Wrong calculations can only be caused by wrong or missing data or by new technical problems. Problems, once identified or reported, are resolved and corrected automatically on the next cycle of the monthly calculation. In the following months, it is intended that all files which have been manually handled by the financial services in recent months will be examined individually and corrected in the system. The target is to have implemented all the corrections in July. As regards the performance component, participants in operations were paid out until the end of March. By the end of May, participants in operations will also be paid out until April. With regard to individual benefits, it is established that newly registered benefits are correctly provided and paid out. In the technical field, a number of problems have been corrected and a number of others are still being resolved by the firm. After the transition from the old to the new system, it was found that certain elements were missing or not loaded correctly. Data corrections are carried out on a continuous basis, so that the recordings of performance in the new system can be handled. It is not possible to put exact figures first, as certain performances still have to be included in the new system. The objective is to have paid everyone correctly in terms of performance by July 2021. In this context, no additional staff was deployed through Rosetta contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u39	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which cannot be said to be really satisfactory. I have to say that the procedure for paying out the betting and performance of our military is very cumbersome. There is also a very cumbersome way of communicating. You have said, as you did at the beginning of February 2021, that an evaluation and a training or testing phase have been under way since 2019. Of course, that period counts as a preliminaries or simulation of reality. I cannot get rid of the constant impression that this did not go well during the test phase, which is why we are now faced with practical problems on the ground. You also point out that you cannot give concrete figures, which is very striking. After all, we see that the figures are mentioned on different media channels. It is a pity that you do not want to be more specific. You will continue to say what you said in February 2021, namely that there are a few exceptions. You indicated that it was less than 2 %, to minimize this. That's the impression I get. For the military in question, however, it is by no means the intention to minimize the situation. They are concerned with personal stories and distressing situations in certain cases, which is truly regrettable. At the time, we paid EUR 33 million for the purchase and further development of the software, for the updating and training of staff. That amount of EUR 33 million is a large amount. That's not a detail in the defense budget in terms of the payout of our military. It should be expected that all major errors can be removed during the test phase. It looks a bit like the tender that happened with Open Source Intelligence, which can also be called a miscarriage. I continue to regret that. I believe, and I believe many with me, that soldiers that day out vouch for your safety and our safety deserve to be paid both their wager and their performance in a correct and proper way. I regret that it is not possible for the DOD to evolve faster in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u40	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. If I understood you correctly, all the problems in July would be gone. Then all the soldiers who were injured would be fully compensated and received both their performance and their additional premium. I take note of that. The military union ACMP has officially failed the army. The union intends to draw up a file in court. A special e-mail address has also been created to allow the most urgent files to be straightened out in an alternative way. I heard your answer correctly. Together with you, we hope that the problems can be resolved quickly so that the many soldiers who are still waiting for late pay can be compensated as soon as possible. We will continue to follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u41	Madam Minister, thank you for the long and full answer. This is, of course, an annoying situation for everyone, including you, and you inherited it. This isn't good. It is important that the dates agreed with the military and trade unions are respected. You say this is your firm intention. It is important that we remain on this path to the solution within the promised deadlines and that we learn from this later. We shouldn't be doing this right now. Now it must be the priority to pay out everything correctly. After that, it is important to draw lessons from this at your level in order to avoid this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u42	It's really a priority. I asked to strengthen...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u43	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Arens's 55017044C was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 55017158C) by Mr Francken and No. 55017720C by Mrs Ponthier were postponed to another meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u44	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you a question that often comes up, whether it is here in the Defence Committee or in the External Relations Committee. This is the worrying situation in Central Africa and, more particularly in recent months, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Many European States, including France, are strengthening their military cooperation in certain regions to combat the rise of terrorist organisations. Madam Minister, I wanted to remind you of these realities in order to question you, as I am also doing with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, rest assured of the possible cooperation agreements that we could conclude with the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I know that there are some urgent demands, not only within our country, but also elsewhere. Could you re-examine the matter with us and give us a forward-looking assessment of what might possibly be part of new cooperation agreements?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u45	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, there is currently no defence agreement between Belgium and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. With regard to military cooperation with the DRC, the Defence follows a road map drawn up jointly at joint military commissions, the last of which was held on 2 February 2021. For 2021, these activities include the establishment of a Belgian adviser within the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the DRC and the reception of military personnel in training at the Royal Belgian Military School. The Defence adheres to the requests made by the Congolese side during the discussions between the respective staffs and does not consider the conclusion of a defence agreement. Such an agreement was never discussed in the strategic discussions, but no request was made by the Congolese side. That explains it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u46	Madam Minister, thank you for the status of the matter, as I asked you. It is clear that the current situation and our historical responsibility as a Belgian State in this region must continue to alert us and maintain what we are already doing. By this I mean exchanges of good practice, such as the possibility for some of the troops of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to come and train in our defence institutions. That would be a good thing. I do not know how to be the only one in this committee to consider - as long as it is desired, as our recent discussions on various motions for resolutions show - that strengthening should be an integral part of our defence policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u47	Madam Minister, the chance of the news today requires us to talk about members of the far right in the Defence at a particular and very tense moment that you follow minute by minute. On May 1st, during the controversial and illegal event in the Bois de la Cambre, which led to the tensions and violence that we all saw, a retired soldier appeared for eight years, according to the media. This man, also an extreme right-wing communal councillor, was dressed in his master corporal's uniform and had joined various groups that were protesting against the current health measures. Minister, of course, it is everyone's right to have opinions and it is the individual responsibility of everyone to take part in an illegal and potentially violent event. Nevertheless, I wonder about the wearing of the uniform in this context. Minister, is it legal for a member to wear a uniform when participating in demonstrations, especially when they are not authorized? Is this also the case for retired members? If this is not the case, what are the possible sanctions? Will you take them? If so, do you think that a framework should be created to prevent such incidents that undermine the Defence's reputation and its necessary impartiality?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u48	Madam Minister, I did not think, when I asked the question a few days ago, that the news was unfortunately going to catch up with us because a manhunt is under way to try to find an extreme right-wing soldier who, despite OCAM's supervision, has benefited from the arms loan, which is rather strange but does not fall within the scope of my question. However, this is an indication of the rampant phenomenon of the far right within the army and, in my opinion, of a tendency of some or some to trivialize it. Before that, on 1 May we had a very unfortunate example. Several thousand people participated in La Boum 2, not the film with Sophie Marceau, but an illegal event organized, without permission, at Le Bois de la Cambre. This event made a lot of talk about him, not only for his illegal organization, but also for the tensions and clashes between the participants and the police, but because of the fact that among all the people who visited the site that day to denounce the health measures in force, there was a certain Jean-Paul Briers, a commune councillor of the far right, a member of the Vlaams Belang in Zonhoven and, moreover, a retired military man wearing his former army uniform. That, in my opinion, is a way of getting this one dirty. However, as you pointed out at the outset following this unfortunate incident, Minister, it is clear that this former member does not in any way represent Defence. That goes without saying. In fact, allow me to pay tribute, once again, to all the work done by you but also by the women and men who make up the Defence and who respect the rules and support the nation from the first day to get out of this crisis. The nation, to which, as in the Constitution, they were sworn. Minister, within what framework is a retired member permitted to wear his or her former uniform in public space? Is it permissible for him to wear his former uniform especially in the context of this kind of event? If not, what sanctions, if any? Have you taken or intend to impose sanctions in this case? If so, which ones? Will specific measures be put in place to prevent such cases from reoccurring and eventually undermining the Defence and its duty of reserve during political demonstrations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u49	Mr President, first of all I would like to point out that I distanced myself directly from this ex-military who was wearing uniform parts during Boum 2. Furthermore, in this case, the Defence, on behalf of the Belgian State, filed a complaint with the competent prosecutor's office on 5 May 2021 at my request. On the other hand, a retired member is no longer subject to military discipline and cannot be disciplined. In the circumstances, therefore, it is not clear from my jurisdiction to impose disciplinary sanctions. On the other hand, the unauthorized wearing of uniforms by military personnel on active duty or pensioners may constitute a violation of the Criminal Code. A member who is no longer on active duty may, under certain circumstances, be permitted to wear military uniforms. This is for example the case for marriages, engagements or funerals of their loved ones, but also for patriotic or military celebrations or ceremonies. The wearing of uniforms is prohibited at any public or private meeting of a political or electoral nature, as well as during the exercise of any profession. In addition, the uniform worn by a retired member must always comply with the requirements in force and must be worn in a dignified and correct manner. Needless to say, unauthorized demonstrations such as the Boum 2 in the Bois de la Cambre are not circumstances in which the uniform can be worn by a retired soldier. Given the existing regulations that already provide a clear framework for this issue, no additional measures or initiatives are foreseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u50	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I too would like to welcome your condemnation of this unworthy attitude for a former member of the Defence. Participating in this kind of event is one thing. We can agree or disagree with the organizers' demands if they have. But to undermine the uniform, to humiliate the soldiers who scrupulously respect the rules and invest in the fight against the covid and to embarrass the Defence on this occasion is unacceptable! Of course, we can't expect anything else from the far right. The frightening events of yesterday and today demonstrate once again that the presence of this ideology of hatred in our troops is a real danger for democracy and for the Belgians. We must, more than ever, increase the level of surveillance of these dangerous elements. I had the opportunity to ask you about this last month, and I believe that we will come back to it again in the next few days. Turning to the more specific subject of the Vlaams Belang, Madam Minister, I understand that it is not up to you to impose sanctions and that it is now the responsibility of the Department of Justice. I thank you, therefore, for filing a complaint against him. Indeed, it is essential that Defence's reserve duty be respected at all costs. Let us remember that we are talking about armed forces and that visible participation in a demonstration undermines the confidence that the population can have in the neutrality of its army. The soldiers can of course have political opinions until their expression is contrary to the laws against racism and discrimination. Put them in uniform while they express them, and it is the entire Defence that finds itself having to endorse these individual opinions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic480x.u51	Minister, thank you very much for your answer. Not only did you condemn these acts, but you also filed a complaint. In short, you have acted on the basis of the regulations in force. We cannot trivialize such events. In a few days, we have just experienced two serious episodes: an infiltration of the far right into the Belgian army, both by a retired soldier – and activist of the Vlaams Belang and currently communal councillor for this party – and by a madman who is still in nature and threatens to kill Marc Van Ranst and his family, as well as politicians – if we refer to his words readable on social networks. Most recently in France, we learned that generals and former active officers called for almost a coup d'état. In addition, French active soldiers have requested that the State re-establish itself on the basis of the "traditional and nationalistic values of France". As a result, Europe – particularly in Belgium and in our institutions – has a huge battle against the far right. The banalization of hate speech and conspiracy, the abominable words in which elected officials of the Vlaams Belang spread, causing military personnel to defile their uniforms, the nation, their colleagues who died for fighting the Nazis between 1940 and 1945 and therefore fighting against the far right and all forms of fascism, all this is a real shame. And I am deeply indignant. The democrats' fight must be a rallying and vigilant fight. All of us will be united behind you to work in this direction, Madam Minister.
