ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u1	Madam President, Minister, as you know, African swine fever (APF) began in Gaume in September 2018 and it took almost two and a half years to end this epidemic. Considerable resources have been devoted to the fight against this epidemic. Owners, forest operators, pig farmers and horeca have suffered and are still suffering dry losses. For the origin of this disease, the assumptions remain complete between the Polish sandwich, the import of wild boar from the East or the exercises of the Belgian army in the PPP infected area in Eastern countries. Justice has always been silent on this issue and the investigation is still under way. Buzenol's track seems to be deflated. However, it will leave deep traces for those who have been deprived of their liberty. Minister, a little more than a month after the declaration of the zone as free from the PPP, I would like to take this opportunity to take stock with you of the ongoing investigation. What can you say about this investigation? What is the state of education? What's the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u2	Madam President, dear colleague Thibaut, in view of the secrecy attached to any judicial investigation, it is not possible for me to communicate the elements of the file. He's in the office of Arlon's investigating judge. I can reassure you that the investigation is being conducted actively. However, according to the investigating judge, it is premature to announce a timetable at this stage. My answer is very short, but you will understand that I am committed to respecting this basic rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u3	Minister, thank you and respect your discretion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u4	Minister, at the end of September 2017, an advertising trailer was circulating in the district of the ULB in Brussels with the message "Hey, students, improve your lifestyle, go out with a Sugar Daddy!", all on the background of a photo of a young woman who drops a strap from her bra. That's little to say that it shocked. Communes had banned the convoy and, on the initiative of the King's prosecutor, a PV had been drafted for X "for incitement to the debauchery of a major person in a public place". In May 2019, the Correctional Court had ruled that there was no incitement to debauchery but had retained the incitement to prostitution and its publicity. On appeal, the Court upheld the sentences imposed on the company at first instance, i.e. six months suspended and EUR 40 000 fined for the company's CEO. The company itself was fined EUR 240,000. On a topical question in plenary, you committed yourself to decriminalizing prostitution. Minister, in relation to the current situation, what would be the main changes? Would such a judgment based on the advertising of a sexual service offer still be possible? If so, on such an important subject, are you going to hold a debate with civil society? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u5	Dear colleague, I have indeed had the opportunity to speak on this subject on several occasions, both in the Committee on Justice and in plenary. The granting of a real status to sex workers and the decriminalization of their activities is a major step that we must take quickly. The government agreement provides that, in consultation with the actors on the ground, we must consider improving the living conditions of sex workers. Covid-19 again emphasized this need. Indeed, some sex workers were not entitled to compensation. They have been forced to work in miserable and sometimes even dangerous clandestine conditions. We have consulted with the sex workers sector. It emerged from this that a first step towards this improvement of living conditions requires decriminalization, after which a social status can be drawn up. In Belgium, a policy of tolerance has so far been applied. We will change this into an explicit decriminalization of the sexual work of adults. The aim is to treat adult volunteer sex workers as ordinary employees and to remove them from illegality by stopping criminalizing them. Of course, the prostitution of minors and the exploitation of adult sex workers are and will continue to be punishable. We have drawn inspiration from New Zealand's approach to abolishing the provisions on sex work from the Penal Code, which so far has been punishable but tolerated. In concrete terms, articles 380, § 1, 380a and 380b of the Criminal Code disappear. Thus, incitement to debauchery in a public place or advertising for prostitution will no longer be punishable. Article 380, § 1 of the Criminal Code will also disappear. This article applies to all persons who have hired, trained, hijacked or detained adult persons for prostitution, even with their consent. In addition, this section made it punishable by law to hold a house for prostitution, sell or rent rooms for prostitution. All this will no longer be punishable. From now on, sex workers will also be able to legally consult an accountant, enter into contracts or agreements with a bank, insurance company or employer. We are awaiting the opinion of the Council of State on this proposal and we will have to receive it shortly. Then we will go to Parliament. As far as your second question is concerned, I cannot rule on an individual case, but generally, as I have just explained, advertising for prostitution will no longer be punishable. If an adult sex worker provides services voluntarily and is paid properly to do so, there will be no problem. The announcement that you specifically refer to seems to be aimed more at recruiting female students. If a person voluntarily employs an adult student but earns a disproportionate amount of money to do so or the student is under pressure, this will always be punishable. That is why we are introducing a new provision in the Penal Code, according to which the exploitation of prostitution, even if it is not a matter of human trafficking, remains punishable at all times. This constitutes an additional guarantee against abuse. We have therefore put in place additional protection against abuse. The provisions on trafficking in human beings will continue to apply in their entirety and if the facts show that trafficking in human beings cannot be qualified, a new criminalization will apply to the exploitation of sex workers not covered by the provisions on trafficking in human beings. In this way, the exploitation of sex workers will remain punishable in all cases. Finally, to answer your last question, the debate on the social rights of sex workers will be conducted in depth. To lead it, decriminalization has emerged as a necessary first step. This was done in close consultation with UTSOPI (the Sex Workers' Association), the World Health Organization, Amnesty International, UNAIDS, Human Rights Watch and international sex workers' organizations (NSWP and ICRSE), all of which supported the decriminalization of sex work. International research has shown that decriminalization leads to safer working conditions, less vulnerability and greater self-determination. The development of a social status for sex workers will also be carried out by the relevant ministers, in close consultation with the sector itself. So here's a slightly longer answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u6	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer. You say it's in the government agreement. The aim is to improve the living conditions of sex workers. You're talking about decriminalization and social status. You say you want to work in two steps. It seems to us that it is really necessary and important to work simultaneously and that we do not move forward on decriminalization without advancing on social status. You know this is a delicate matter. Personally, I'm quite a prohibitionist. This kind of evolution is not necessarily positive. So I really trust you to work in synergy and in exchange with civil society to have the most balanced project. Social status must be concurrent with this decriminalization.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u7	Madam President, Minister, current Belgian legislation does not provide for the recognition of children born of surrogacy. Consequently, the Belgian Federal Government does not grant any legal effect to foreign documents drawn up in that context. Couples with children born of surrogacy are advised to go to a family court. In this way, local authorities can pass judgment on the birth certificate and the corresponding judgment by means of a judgment which is res judicata. The municipality of Evergem wrote to the federal services on this issue, but has still not received an answer. A clear letter is needed explaining to the local authorities what procedure they can follow. Are you prepared to do so and to clarify it so that local officials know what to do and can communicate clearly with the parents? In addition to a lack of legislation on surrogacy, there is an additional problem of registering the offspring in the children's file. The municipality of Evergem has also mentioned this with the services of the National Register, and it has not yet received an answer. Can you explain to me how the pedigree in the children's file can be legally arranged if the children, born of surrogacy, have two fathers? Will you take steps to make the procedure simple and unambiguous and then communicate it to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u8	Minister, pregnancy for others (GPA) in Belgium is still a taboo and it is not regulated by legislation. This creates legal uncertainty for parents but especially for the child. When parents register their child in the National Register in a municipality, as there is no legislative or administrative framework, this creates situations of inequity between children born by GPA in Belgium. The situation will depend mainly on the municipal agent in charge. Registration of the bond of filiation between children and parents is accepted or not in the communal registers. This results in discrimination between parents according to the municipality of residence. According to several testimonies, some municipalities that do not prefer to register these children informally advise parents to go to another more flexible municipality. This clearly shows the inequality that exists according to the communes. The current legal provisions on GPA are also discriminatory since the law of 5 May 2014 allows the application of civil law rules on filiation on the establishment of the parent's filiation. Clearly, two women may be co-parents of one child but not two men. Children born to a male homosexual couple can only have their father's dual parentage established through intra-family adoption. For the benefit of the child and to put an end to discrimination between parents, it seems necessary to propose a clear legal framework for GPA. The emergence of new forms of parenting confronts the municipalities with questions for which they do not always have an answer, in any case no official answer. Minister, in order to provide greater clarity for future parents, could you send a circular to the various municipal administrations in order to harmonize the procedures for registering the child? Nothing is indicated in the government agreement. What about you? It is necessary that there is at least one harmonisation in order to be able to register a child in the same way in a municipality A or a municipality B. Would it also be possible to amend the existing legislation on filiation in order to recognise double paternal filiation, as is already the case for dual maternal filiation, so that the intention parent is recognized by the Belgian administration as a legal parent? This would put an end to discrimination and should not go through court proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u9	Madam President, Mrs Depoorter and Mrs Reuter, in reply to the first two questions, I can answer that the drafting of documents by civil status and the keeping of registers of civil status are a constitutional competence of the municipalities. Under the rules of private international law, any authority, including the civil servant, may decide on the recognition of foreign authentic instruments or decisions on civil status. There is no specific or derogation rule for pregnancy for others. The general rules of private international law with regard to recognition, and in particular articles 22, 25 and 27 of the Code of Private International Law, must therefore be applied. In case of serious doubt, the registrar may seek advice from the Central Civil Registry Authority. Addressing a letter to civil society officials in this area raises problems with regard to legality and even constitutionality. The use of a normative circular that adds conditions to the law may be sanctioned by the Council of State. Some officials suspect that the sole purpose of foreign surrogacy is to escape the application of Belgian law, which until now has no direct lineage in case of surrogacy. In their view, that circumstance constitutes a ground for refusal which obliges them not to recognise the foreign judgment. It is a broad interpretation of that ground of refusal, which is, however, shared by part of the case-law. It is up to the Court of Cassation, and not to the Minister of Justice, to judge these two lines of case law. Otherwise, constitutional principles will be violated. The refusal to recognize a foreign decision relating to filiation concerns a subjective right. Article 144 of the Constitution gives the courts exclusive jurisdiction to settle disputes in this area. A constitutional problem and a violation of the separation of powers would arise if the Minister of Justice issued a circular in favour of one stream of jurisprudence to the detriment of another. The case law of the European Court of Human Rights lays down that the best interests of the child must be taken into account and assessed in practice. It is up to the legislator or the judge to decide how the interests of the child should be taken into account. On your second question, a distinction must be made between the Database for the Acts of Civil Status, the DABS, and the National Register. In the DABS, it is both legally and technically possible to draw up a birth certificate on the basis of a foreign instrument or a judicial decision stating two fathers. However, this is only possible if the foreign act or judgment is recognized. If recognition of the document is refused, the parties concerned may apply for recognition in the family court. They may also apply directly to the family courts for recognition of a foreign judgment. In the event of a favourable decision, the municipality shall draw up the birth certificate on this basis. The further registration of the descent in the National Register is the responsibility of my colleague from the Interior. I am aware of the many difficulties families face in the case of surrogacy. These difficulties are linked to the lack of legislation in national law which provides for a framework and a direct lineage in the case of surrogacy. They also relate to the lack of specific rules in private international law to determine the conditions under which surrogacy abroad can be recognised in Belgian law. In my policy statement, I committed myself to modernising the law of filiation in the light of new forms of common life. This is reflected in the government agreement. The use of pregnancy for others is part of the law of filiation. Together with my administration, I am currently investigating what is possible to regulate the use of surrogacy. This analysis also looks at the pending legislative proposals. I will present the conclusions to the various government partners. Once agreement has been reached on the principles, a more precise text can be drawn up and submitted to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. With the answer that your services cannot draw up a circular for this or that it is unconstitutional, a municipality has not advanced. The most important principle of the Constitution is the equality of every citizen. At the moment we cannot guarantee this, because of the bid that is currently taking place between different municipalities. You refer to the authority of the official, but an official of a smaller municipality who gives responsibility is virtually unworkable. There is a need to look very clearly at how to communicate correctly and consistently with the municipalities, so that there can be no competition between municipalities. Furthermore, every citizen in every municipality must have the same rights to have his or her children registered. What gives me some clarification is your very clear answer on the fact that the birth certificate must be recognised. The municipality effectively needs the family court for recognition of the birth certificate and should be given a favourable opinion. As far as the National Register is concerned, I had addressed this question to Minister Verlinden. I will retable it, because I was referred to this committee. As far as surrogacy is concerned, this will certainly require a debate. The most important thing for our group is that a child who lives in our country is welcome and enjoys all the rights it deserves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that taking a circular would be unconstitutional. However, there is a need to clarify the communes. Indeed, today there is a big gap between the legislation to which you referred and the practice on the ground. One municipality is not the other. A registrar or administrative officer is not the other. It must be noted that on the ground things are not happening efficiently and that children are not enrolled. You can therefore imagine the course of the combatant of these people who have taken a great deal of steps to become parents and who find themselves having to make other steps or remedies either before the courts or before the Council of State, if the decision is contrary to the legislation, to finally obtain the registration of their child. On the other hand, I mean your will to restore order and to open the right to filiation. GPA is one of them. So I look forward to receiving news from the negotiations that may take place within the government. As far as my group is concerned, we will try to bring our stone to the building at Parliament level in order to move forward and lighten the administrative burdens which are extremely heavy for these parents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u12	Minister, last week the Bruges football club won the Belgian championship. However, the party was quickly ruined when a player, on the occasion of a crowd bath that did not respect, let us point out in passing, the sanitary rules, sang an anti-Semitic song, taken in the heart by some fans present. Nothing can justify that. Neither sports rivalry, nor the euphoria of victory, nor drunkenness. We cannot tolerate this and we must fight on a daily basis so that this can no longer happen, as is the case with any form of racism. The Club of Bruges simply felt that these songs were part of the sports culture, of folklore without any further comment except for being sorry for having injured who could have been. Minister, what information do you have about this case? To your knowledge, has a complaint already been filed? Is there a possibility that you or another member of the government will be a civil party in such a case? If so, will that be the case? More broadly, can you remind us of all the tools we have to sanction such an act and prevent it from happening again? To your knowledge, have judgments ever taken place for similar facts? If so, have they already resulted in stage bans for the supporters concerned? Do you think that specific measures should be taken in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u13	Mr Minister, as my colleague De Maegd has said on this subject, I will repeat his words: "The party was ruined after the victory of the Club de Bruges". Too often, a sports festival is thus dirty, in this case by anti-Semitic and negationist statements, as well as racists against particularly Afro-descendant players. Similarly, homophobia in football is a reality. This is not the first incident at the Bruges Club. The excuse for a folk song is particularly indecent and must ask us about the fact that the use of anti-Semitic speech after a game is considered "folkloric". Minister, how many judgments have been handed down concerning racist incidents, particularly anti-Semitic, in football? What penalties does the legislation provide for for the punishment of such acts? Were any of the people still banned from the stadium after being found guilty of singing similar songs? Do you think that our legislation contains sufficient provisions that can effectively sanction such statements?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u14	Minister, on Thursday 20 May, the Club de Bruges won the first place in the Belgian football championship after a match against Anderlecht's sporting. After the match, in a festive spirit against the supporters, Noa Lang, a club player, sang an anti-Semitic song. I quote him in French: "I would rather die than be a Jewish from Anderlecht's sport!" These words have nothing to do with the folklore characteristic of such a victory. These are openly anti-Semitic comments to fans excited by the fervor of the conquered title. It should be noted that Noa Lang was a champion of the Netherlands in 2019 when he served at the Ajax Amsterdam. He is therefore an authority in the football community. A few days after this incident, he was named best hope of the Belgian championship by the Pro League. The same Pro League deplored the words of Noa Lang while the Club of Bruges saw no anti-Semitic subtext. This kind of talk is not isolated. Let us remember that the Brugesian supporters had chanted "who doesn't jump is Jewish" or "all Jews are gay" during confrontations in 2019 – and I quote only a few examples among others. It must be noted that these are offences in the eyes of the laws on incitement to hatred and certainly facts that fall within the scope of Articles 23 and 23bis of the Football Act. These discriminatory acts, whether racist, anti-Semitic, Islamophobic or homophobic, have no place in or outside a football stadium – or any other sport. Minister, what follow-up is provided by the Public Prosecutor's Office for this type of complaint? In particular, what follow-up will be given to these anti-Semitic statements by Noa Lang? Do you intend, in coordination with your colleague Minister Verlinden, to strengthen anti-discrimination measures in the world of football in order to stem this phenomenon?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u15	Colleagues, thank you for your questions. On the first and second questions by Mr. De Maegd and Mr Prévot's first question, so far no complaints have been lodged following the anti-Semitic chants made during the celebration of the victory of the Club de Bruges. The police of the Bruges area also did not draw up an ex officio report. At the request of the Attorney-General of Ghent, a report was drawn up and the images were requested in order to ascertain whether persons guilty of punishable anti-Semitic behaviour could be identified. In order to be complete, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that some of them fall behind the decision of the Belgian Court of Arbitration for Sport, which ruled on 22 July 2019 that the mere use of the Jewish word was not discriminatory or injuring as such. On the third question by Mr. De Maegd, Mr Moutquin's questions two and four and Mr Prévot's second question, our current legislative arsenal allows for the continuation of racist and xenophobic behaviour. The current legislation on discrimination is sufficient, there is no need for additional legislation. Speeches that constitute incitement to discrimination, hatred, violence or segregation, on the basis of one of the criteria protected by the Anti-Racism, Anti-Discrimination and Gender Law, held under advertising conditions defined in article 444 of the Criminal Code with an intention to harm, are punishable by a penalty of one month to one year and/or a fine of 50 to 1,000 euros. There are other hate speech offences that do not appear to apply to the case at first sight. In this context, it is important to note that a number of extremely unpleasant, if not abject, statements are a matter of freedom of expression and are not punishable. The criminal policy of the Public Prosecutor's Office for this type of fact is contained in Circular COL13 of the year 2013, which bans the classification without follow-up for reasons of opportunity and recommends an appropriate response for each event denounced, with the prosecutor choosing the most appropriate reaction to the facts and personality of the author within the range of possible decisions. This circular is currently the subject of a comprehensive reflection which will lead to a rewriting of the circular which covers the following points: better registration of hate crimes; definition of concepts; development of alternative measures to specific prosecutions; combating online offences; and consideration of sexism in public space. In addition, the Act of 21 December 1998 on security during football matches also provides for the prosecution of persons who, in a stadium or during a football match, incite hatred or acquiescence towards other persons. In the context of a conviction for an offence committed on account of and in connection with the organisation of a football match, the judge may order a judicial stage ban of between three months and ten years. For acts of incitement to hatred or acquiescence, the law of 21 December 1998 on security during football matches provides for a fine of 250 euros to 5,000 euros and/or a stadium ban of three months to five years. Everyone must take their responsibilities in the fight against racism and discrimination, in the first place players and supporters, the police and the judiciary, but certainly also football clubs and the Royal Belgian Football Union as the organizer of these sporting events. It is my understanding that the Royal Union intends to make a firm commitment to this issue by establishing a national chamber for discrimination and racism as of July 1, and by appointing a person responsible for inclusion. The government is, of course, always prepared to discuss it - and I have already done so - with the world of football. On Mr.Moutquin's third question, during the 2019-2020 season, three proceedings initiated on the basis of the Football Law for acts of racism and discrimination resulted in stage bans issued by the Football Cell of the Federal Internal Public Service. No procedure was initiated during the 2020-2021 season, during which, as you know, supporters did not have much opportunity to attend the stadiums. Nevertheless, I think the figures remain too low especially for the 2019-2020 season. In 2020, a supporter of the KV Mechelen was sentenced to a public interest sentence and a three-year judicial ban by the Malines Correctional Court following acts of racism against a player. Mr Moutquin, on your first question, the figures I have are not limited to the context of football matches. These are more general figures. For example, over the past five years, there have been 411 court decisions, including final and interlocutory judgements in cases of racism, xenophobia and discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u16	Minister, I've loved football since childhood. I practiced it as a youth team. From time to time, I go to the stadium. One of the virtues of this sport is to bring together people of all social, geographical, ethnic and philosophical backgrounds. In this sense, it must be a social cement, but – because there is one but – it too often offers in our stadiums, but also elsewhere, a forum for absolutely intolerable, racist messages – in this case, anti-Semitic – and homophobic messages. This phenomenon must be combated unabated. In 2021, football folklore can no longer accommodate any such drift. You refer to freedom of expression, but it cannot violate the law. Such facts and their scope cannot be minimized, as they are contrary to the law. It is of no use to the Royal Belgian Football Union, the European Football Federation (UEFA) or even FIFA to broadcast television spots against racism if they are not followed by tangible effects in and around the stadium. Fair play is not just a sight of the mind. I hear the Attorney General of Ghent carries out additional investigative duties. I invite you to reflect on your side to fight this scourge. You are talking about the ongoing reflection on the ad hoc circular in this case. Having said that, I invite you, as Minister of Justice, to take civil action in the event of a breach of the law. You are referring to the sanctions already imposed on certain supporters, but we must also prevent footballers and clubs from crossing the grid in this fight. Thank you for your proactivity in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u17	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. One element, on the other hand, stopped me. You referred to a judgment given in relation to the use of the term "Jewish". In this case, I will recall the sentence in its entirety: "I prefer to be dead than to bear the Jews of sport." Another sentence said by the same supporter of the same club in 2018 said: "My parents burned Jews, because the Jews burn better". The question is not to define how the word "Jew" is perceived, but rather to place it in a context that is that of incitement to hatred. My job is not to give a legal assessment of how the supporters sang a song, but rather to alert you to the reality that is that of football and that of society in general. I'm not sure there's more racism in football than anywhere else. And that is ultimately the question: how does racism have a current expression in society, whether in football or elsewhere, and how do we fight that expression? I trust you for this work that will be important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u18	Minister, thank you for the moment. In the preamble, I myself have been involved in sport all my life and I am the first to love the folklore that surrounds victories or sporting events. I am not the last to participate in festivities, but I am particularly shocked by the reaction of the Club de Bruges which sees no anti-Semitic character there and the lukewarm reaction of the Pro League deploring without condemning. You said that no complaints had been filed, no complaints had been made by the Bruges police, but that images had nevertheless been requested in order to identify possible troublemakers or persons who had had an inappropriate attitude. In this case, Noa Lang had it since he participated and sang anti-Semitic songs. I had the impression that reports had been filed with Unia. I'll make sure that's the case. If not, I will make a report myself for those events that have been recorded. You also recalled that the mere use of the word "Jewish" was not discriminatory according to the case law, but I also mentioned in my question other songs leaving no doubt as to the anti-Semitic nature of their words. In conclusion, you said that our legislative arsenal was sufficient. However, I note the release of the word and the trivialization of unacceptable and reprehensible statements. Therefore, I hope that you will work very proactively with Minister Verlinden so that tomorrow we will no longer know about such criminal events and acts in and outside our stadiums.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u19	Madam President, my colleague Steven De Vuyst cannot be present, but I will ask the question for both of us. Minister, the De Tijd newspaper reports that extreme right-wing terrorist Jürgen Conings has been known to the service for some time. He had thus been the subject of a complaint for racist statements which the Public Prosecutor's Office had decided not to proceed with, given that it was a press offence which would be reserved for the Court of Assize by the Constitution. This explanation is not acceptable since article 150 of the Constitution already contains an exception for racist press offences. Mr. Conings' racist remarks could therefore have been prosecuted in correctional proceedings. It is also reported that he was a member of the extremist Knights of Flanders movement, which itself describes himself as a militia intended to attack migrants. Therefore, Minister, could you confirm the nature of the facts for which Mr.Conings was known to Justice? How do you explain that no prosecution has been initiated against an individual deemed dangerous by the intelligence services? Could you tell me the real reason for the ranking without action? Lastly, was the Knights of Flanders militia prosecuted on the basis of the law prohibiting private militias? If not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u20	Madam President, Mr Boukili, I also have in my possession the answer to Mr. From Vuyst. As this one is absent, I come immediately to the answer that concerns you. Mr. Boukili, your question relates to the November 22, 2019 Minutes with Code 56 issued by the Federal Judicial Police in a military setting indicating the use of inappropriate language on social media by a soldier. The reference judge on racism found that the evidence was insufficient to qualify these acts as racist offences, but that the statements could possibly be described as insults written via Facebook. The case was rejected because of "the disproportionate consequences of criminal prosecution, social disorder, incitement". On the classification form, in addition to the grounds for classification, the term "press offence" was added, referring to the possible qualification of written insult. Reference is made here, of course, to article 150 of the Constitution. Should we recall this problem? By letter dated August 10, 2020, this decision was communicated to the Ministry of Defence for possible disciplinary consequences. With regard to the Facebook Knights of Flanders group, no criminal investigation is under way at the prosecutor's office due to the 1934 Private Militia Act. However, in the meantime, we have learned about the limitations of this legislation. Various proposals to amend and extend this law have already been discussed, but they have encountered objections that this would constitute an excessive infringement of fundamental rights and freedoms, including the right to association and assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. As you say, the reason given was disproportionate prosecution. That is why the Prosecutor's Office did not find it useful to prosecute Mr. Conings. Today, the facts show us that this was not so disproportionate and that there was a need for prosecution. I wonder what is the real reason for the ranking without follow-up. I don't really believe in disproportionate prosecution. The facts show the opposite. Is it the lack of resources to conduct this kind of business? In the case of disproportionate prosecutions, there is a fault in the magistrate's head. Indeed, the facts make him wrong. Had there been a judgment at that time with a criminal record in Mr. Conings's head, he would not have had the clearances and access that allowed him to do what he is doing today. I find that this judgment comes to take lightly a very serious issue in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u22	Madam President, Minister, in Zedelgem, on the so-called "freedom" square, a stylised "Latviatic hive" has been commemorating since 2018, at the initiative of a local elected Vlaams Belang, freedom in all its forms but also the memory of the 12,000 Latvian legionaries of the 15th and 19th Waffen-SS divisions who, between 1945 and 1946, were detained in the Vloethemveld camp for prisoners of war. Legionaries who, in their oath, said, among other things, "In the name of God, I solemnly pledge myself to obey Adolf Hitler without reservation." Such a tribute is obviously completely incomprehensible and has no place in our society. You had already been questioned about the subject in the past, and you felt it was up to the judicial authorities to assess whether or not an investigation should be initiated. Minister, may I remind you that as Minister of Justice, you also have a positive injunction jurisdiction that allows you to order individual investigations and prosecutions? In other words, you have the opportunity to ask the Public Prosecutor's Office to initiate an investigation in this regard. Minister, we all rightly deplore the inexorable progress of the far right in our country, from voting to voting. However, when such situations arise, it must be noted that no real action is taken. Memory, memory and education are at the root of this phenomenon. We cannot claim to fight against radicalisation of ideas without, at the same time, facing its causes. It therefore seems to me to be essential to take action. In this case, we find ourselves in our country with a monument that trivializes the participation of some people in the Shoah - no more or less. Minister, with respect to this stele, do you intend to use your positive injunction jurisdiction to request an investigation? If not, how do you explain this decision? In a broader way, can you remind us of the legal arsenal that our country has at its disposal to combat the banality of the Shoah? What are the gaps, if any, that allow such a tribute to be tolerated? How can they be filled?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u23	Dear colleague, since I took office as Minister of Justice, I have always insisted that a Minister of Justice must always respect the Constitution, in particular Article 151, which defines the independence of the judiciary in individual cases. The right to a positive injunction is the exception to this rule and, as far as I am concerned, it must remain very exceptional. Therefore, I have not yet used my competence as a positive injunction out of respect for this independence in individual cases, and I do not intend to do so. I believe that there are other more common and effective ways to open a criminal investigation, such as the complaint. In concrete terms, the Ghent Prosecutor's Office informs me of the following. Firstly, they are not aware of any complaints or statements and therefore have not made any information to the municipal administration of Zedelgem. For the time being, there is also no concrete indication of an offence that would ex officio justify judicial information. The public prosecutor's office refers to the website of the municipality of Zedelgem where one can find an explanation and an interpretation of the meaning of this monument, which is on the famous site of Vloethemveld, namely to commemorate all those who participated in wars. The specific link with the Latvian prisoners of war who stayed in Vloethemveld does not make this monument a tribute to the values of the Latvian legionaries or to the ideology they supported at the time. So that's what the Ghent prosecutor says to me. In this case, it seems to me desirable that the competent authority responsible for supervising the mayor should be questioned in this respect. To answer your second question, currently anti-Semitism is specifically targeted by the Act of 23 March 1995 to suppress the denial, minimization, justification and approval of the genocide committed by the German national socialist regime during the Second World War. Article 1 of the Act states that "any person who, in any of the circumstances set out in article 444 of the Criminal Code, denies, grossly minimizes, seeks to justify or approves the genocide committed by the German national socialist regime during the Second World War shall be punished by imprisonment from eight days to one year and a fine from 25 to 5,000 francs. For the purposes of this paragraph, genocide shall be understood as defined in article 2 of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide (CPRCG) of 9 December 1948." Unia, as well as any other legal person who proposes, by its statutes, to defend the moral interests and honour of the resistors and deportees, and who fulfils the conditions laid down in article 17 of the Judicial Code, may be brought to justice in all disputes to which the application of the Act of 23 March 1995 may give rise. In addition, anti-discrimination legislation applies, i.e. the Act of 10 May 2007 to combat certain forms of discrimination, known as the Anti-Discrimination Act. Secondly, there is the Act of 10 May 2007 adapting the Judicial Code to legislation to combat discrimination. Thirdly, there is the Act of 30 July 1981 to punish certain acts inspired by racism or xenophobia as amended by the Act of 10 May 2007, known as the Anti-Racism Act. These laws criminalize incitement to hatred and violence on the basis of one of the protected criteria, and discrimination on the basis of one of the protected criteria. In this context, anti-Semitism is not a protected criterion in itself. Crimes and crimes of hatred against Jewish persons or identified as such can be understood according to several protected criteria, such as race, descent, social or ethnic origin, or religious belief.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u24	Mr Minister, the separation of powers is indeed fundamental in our rule of law, and I agree with you on this assessment. But to be honest, I regret that you do not activate your positive injunction jurisdiction in this particular case. This jurisdiction allows you to search and prosecute individually. What would be the very meaning of the existence of this competence if it was in fact to not use it? The very idea of commemorating at home, in Belgium, the memory of the Latvian legionaries who belonged to the Waffen-SS is absolutely unbearable! To be precise, the artist speaks well of 12,000 alveoli in this hive, in this monument which represents the 12,000 Latvian legionaries who belonged to the Waffen-SS. On the one hand, we cannot deplore the rise of the far right in Belgium and, at the same time, close our eyes to this kind of commemoration. As a member of the nation, minister, I will always fight against all forms of intolerance, of glorification of hatred; I will fight for the preservation of the memory of the victims of the Shoah, like other genocides. You alluded to it, too. It is, in fact, the duty of every democrat. You will always have my support in this fight, but with all due respect, I sincerely believe that you could reconsider your assessment of this case and use this right of positive injunction to act forcefully and decisively in this direction, at a time when the rejection of the other becomes a democratic issue - dare I say a public safety issue? I therefore invite you to re-examine this matter in depth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am pleased that so many questions are being asked in this committee about the rise of anti-Semitism. My questions relate specifically to the so-called BDS campaign, in full the boycott, the investment measures and sanctions that some people want to announce against Israel. Even after the most recent war between Israel and Hamas, voices called for it. This would not only mark the State of Israel, but also commercial, economic, academic, cultural and medical partnerships, activities that are independent of the State. It also calls for individual artists such as Israeli artists to be targeted and no longer to cooperate with them. An important addition: these are only people with the Jewish faith. Arab inhabitants of Israel are therefore not endorsed. I would remind you that on 17 May 2019 the German Bundestag adopted a resolution, by the way, across party boundaries, which describes the BDS movement as anti-Semitic. Those are not my words, therefore, but those of the German Bundestag. According to a number of MEPs, some of the slogans also reminiscent of Nazi propaganda. In fact, the German resolution goes so far that financial aid would no longer be given to organizations that question Israel's right to exist or to projects that call for a boycott of Israel. In the United States, 35 states have passed laws or regulations against BDS. In Europe, Austria, the United Kingdom, France, Spain and the Czech Republic have condemned BDS. What is the Belgian Government's position on the BDS movement? In your opinion, can the BDS movement be considered anti-Semitic, as Germany judges? If you think Germany is making a mistake here, will you raise the German resolution at European level? How do you feel about individual citizens being targeted just because of their Jewish origins? The Belgian Government has chosen the path of dialogue. Do you think that it can support organisations that call for BDS when it does not participate in it? Finally, does the government intend to ban organizations calling for BDS according to German example or to have a preliminary investigation conducted to that end?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u26	Mevrouw de voorzitster, mijnheer Freilich, de Veiligheid van de Staat heeft in het kader van zijn activiteiten kennis genomen van de BDS-beweging, die u in uw vraag aanhaalt. BDS staat yesterday voor boycot, de-investeringsmaatregelen en sancties tegen Israel. De inschatting van de Veiligheid van de Staat betreffende die organizatie is momenteel de volgende; ik quote:"The Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement is an international pro-Palestinian movement denouncing Israeli policy by calling on states to review the modalities of cooperation with the State of Israel. This movement has various branches, including one in Belgium. The BDS movement is related to extreme left activism in general. The activities of BDS regularly lead to the disapproval of the State of Israel and its representatives, sometimes leading to more or less formal, more or less direct approaches to the political and administrative authorities of the countries in which these activities take place." At present, activities of the BDS movement do not fall within the scope of what is punishable, Mr Freilich. As you know, neither I nor the government intend to restrict freedom of expression. Germany has legislation that makes it possible to exclude certain groups, but if I understand correctly, this is not the case with BDS Germany. It is, as you yourself say, a German Bundestag resolution and not an action by the German Government. In this context, apart from Parliament's possible resolution, you know that there is no legislation in our country that would exclude groups from the law, for the constitutional protection of the right of association and assembly. Anti-Semitism will, if necessary, strongly condemn and prosecute justice, as will any form of inciting violence, discrimination and hatred. I hope you and your party will support us in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u27	Minister, I am pleased to hear that you are also concerned about the growing phenomenon of extreme left-wing activism against possibly not only the Israeli state but also Jewish citizens. I think we should certainly continue to follow this closely, because, indeed, everyone is free to speak freely in the context of free speech, but we must be careful not to narrow the line between anti-Zionism and anti-Semitism. We will continue to ensure, for example, that it is not said not to buy products in a Jewish shop or to cooperate with a Jewish artist simply because he is Jewish and is Israeli.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u28	Minister, you know that naturalisation procedures are now the responsibility of the municipalities. As a result of the covid epidemic, applicants faced several objective problems. For example, language training centres have been closed or prevented from functioning properly. Similarly, for several weeks or even a few months, the municipal services had to close their offices or welcome the public only by appointment. As a result, normal procedures for applying for naturalization have been adversely affected. Are you thinking about adapting to the situations of these people after this difficult year?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u29	Mr Moutquin, I understand your first two questions. The health crisis has given rise to many different types of problems. However, at this stage of the pandemic, my intention is not to provide temporary relaxations for foreign nationals applying for Belgian nationality, whereas we are, on the contrary, moving towards a general relaxation of measures related to coronavirus and a return to normality is increasingly tangible. The option chosen by the previous government was to send communications to the municipalities in order to take account of the special circumstances arising from the health crisis of the covid-19. They were broadcast in April and May 2020 in line with the evolution of this crisis. It follows that all civil acts, including those relating to nationality, must be possible. The organisation of municipal services is the responsibility of the local and supervisory authorities. It determines the opening hours, whether the work is done by appointment, measures to respect physical distancing, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u30	With regard to your third and fourth questions, a royal decree of 14 January 2013 implements the conditions laid down in the Belgian Nationality Code for the acquisition of Belgian nationality. Article 1 of this Royal Decree mentions, among other possibilities of proof, language competence, the proof issued by the competent authority of a successful follow-up of the integration journey, the reception route provided by the competent authority in its principal residence at the time when the applicant enters the main residence. This provision does not refer to the A2 level of appreciation of the European Reference Framework. In any case, the organisation of this journey is the exclusive competence of the federated entities, only able to answer you on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u31	Minister, thank you. As many people confuse the two issues, I would like to point out that here we are talking about naturalization and not asylum applications. They are therefore people who already have a status. In terms of flexibility, I understand that it is complicated to do so on a case-by-case basis in all sectors. But here, however, the question of work arises. I think it would be logical, in relation to the difficulties, to suggest that an additional year could be taken into account in the processing of naturalization cases. Many of these people work in sectors that have been directly affected by the covid-19 crisis and are no longer eligible for a year of integration and work. I think that would be interesting and I will make sure to question federated entities via other parliamentarians about the aspect of the integration path.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u32	Madam President, Mrs Houtmeyers, general meetings are not public but private events. Shareholders are entitled to privacy: this concerns the right not to be filmed, the shareholder status and the number of shares they own. In principle, the statutes of the listed company determine the formalities for the admission of third parties to the general meeting. If the statutes do not contain any provisions in this respect, the general meeting itself shall have the power to decide by simple majority on the admission of third parties. The usual practice with listed companies is therefore that journalists have access to the general meeting provided that they have submitted a request in advance and subject to the shareholders' agreement at the beginning of the meeting. Thus, the decision to make digital images of the general meeting available to the general public via the website of the listed company also belongs to the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u33	Mr Minister, a listed company is obviously not a private company. This means that it has a somewhat public character, and that it is important that there is a flow of information to current shareholders and certainly to future shareholders, so that it can also be assessed whether there is good governance of the company, which is nevertheless essential. Digitisation is fine and indeed offers the opportunity to meet digitally at a distance, but there is a need for sufficient attention to be paid to the flow of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u34	Minister, in response to a written question by Mr Van Hecke, you said that the time had come to look further at the processing capacity of police and judicial actors. You indicated at that time, but also in response to a more recent question from me, that the digitisation processes are paying off and that the processing capacity can be increased. In 2015, police patrols set quotas for police zones in order to control the increased workload. This led to the police zones getting the signal in September that they would no longer have to set up police operations for the rest of the year and that they would have to shut down the speed cameras. It is also often an argument for police zones not to check for speed in a zone 30. That, of course, is not a good signal, Minister. That's why I have the following questions. To what extent has the processing capacity been expanded in recent years? What further efforts do you think are needed to push them forward? Is the system of quotas for police zones being adapted? Will you talk to the College of Attorney General for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u35	Mrs Buyst, you ask the right questions. We've already gotten to work on this. I can assure you of that. We have also started, together with the Minister of the Interior, to increase the processing capacity in the regional processing centres through the recruitment of additional staff. That is what we are doing now. Additional budgets are also foreseen to take structural measures to deal with the workload as efficiently as possible. I myself am also preparing structural measures, which I do not want to anticipate at this stage, but that will certainly help. Furthermore, it should be borne in mind that the digitisation of the traffic fine process through Crossborder has resulted in enormous efficiency gains in both police, justice and finance. Since the roll-out of the payment order, the workload at the level of our courts and courts has fallen significantly because the unpaid fines can now be awarded an enforceable title through the payment order. This means, in concrete terms, that, in order for the fine to be paid, it is no longer necessary to go to court, but to be able to collect the fine by means of an enforceable title, possibly through a bailiff, unless an appeal is brought before the court. On your third question, my intention is to reduce quotas to a minimum in the context of increased road safety, in consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office. I would like to point out that these quotas existed long before 2015. That's what I've been assured of. So it is a bad tradition that has existed in our country for a long time. Whatever they may say, I want to look to the future with the government. The chance of catching should be increased as quickly as possible by triggering the various trajectories and reducing the quota to a minimum as possible. As far as your fourth and fifth questions are concerned, the conversation to which you refer has already taken place. It was an extensive conversation in which we exchanged thoughts for a long time. It is the commitment of the College of Attorneys General and myself to take the necessary measures to achieve the increased chance of taking up quotas and to keep the famous margins of tolerance to a minimum. I refer, among other things, to the problems in Brussels, where a zone 30 has been introduced, but where flashes only take place from a kilometre which is much higher. I have just had a conversation with Mrs Van den Brandt about this and I have been committed to adapting it as soon as possible and to asking the court. This increases the chances of getting caught and road safety, because that is what it is our job to do, not to issue more fines.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for an answer that really reassures me. In an earlier answer to my question, you had indeed already mentioned this digitisation, which ensures that 93 percent of the ticketed traffic fines can indeed be collected. You said at the time that this will ensure that the administrative workload of more than 300 full-time jobs is automated. That is certainly a first good step. I am also very pleased to hear that you want to tackle these bad practices of past quotas. That reassures me, because one of the killers in traffic is excessive speed. We need to increase the chances of getting rid of traffic to reduce the number of casualties. You have repeatedly replied to several of my questions that this is one of your priorities. Again, I see the goodwill to work on this. That reassures me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u37	Mr Minister, after their divorce many former couples opt for residence co-parenthood where the child or children stay equally with both parents. Even though the child lives 50/50 with each parent, it can only be registered at the address of one parent in the population register, the so-called address for service. However, co-parenting does not in fact involve just one main residence for the child. The address for residence is also accompanied by many advantages for the parent in which the child is registered. It is important that good agreements are made between the ex-partners on this issue, but it may also be necessary to question the current rules. How many children in our country are covered by a co-parenting scheme? Why is it not possible that in co-parenting children can have two places of residence? What legal and/or administrative objections are there? Do you consider it desirable to change this? Why is that? Why is that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u38	Mrs Platteau, in relation to your question of how many children live in a situation of co-parenting, I would like to point out once again that, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is not appropriate to ask for figures and statistics in an oral question. You should normally ask a written question. Moreover, this is also a matter for the Minister of the Interior. If parents agree on a co-parenting arrangement, it is not registered centrally. The only thing that can be found in the National Register is the number of children registered at different addresses. This number does not necessarily correspond to the number of cases of co-parenting, as it depends on the parents whether on this basis they request a registration at two different addresses. You can put the question to the Minister for the Interior, but it will take some work to give a precise answer, at least on the basis of the statistics of the National Register. It is indeed possible to register children in the population register at two different addresses. Pursuant to a Royal Decree of 26 December 2015, which amended the 1991 Royal Decree and entered into force on 15 February 2016, the possibility to make a double adjustment in the population register of children with divorced parents is introduced. The population register shall then be supplemented by an indication that the minor is staying in two places. The child is therefore registered in the population register in the municipality of the parent with whom he does not have his main residence. Previously, a child of divorced parents could only have his main residence at the address of one parent. Since 2016, the child can also be registered at the other parent's address. As a result, the child is registered at the address of both parents. The condition is that the child stays with the other parent in part, whether evenly distributed or not, on the basis of a judicial decision or a joint agreement between the parents as to the accommodation of the minor child. The report of that Royal Decree to the King shows that this statement does not intend to grant additional socio-economic or tax rights. The purpose of this indication is to inform the local authorities concerned that a child is effectively resident in the territory of the municipality in question for a certain period of time where the parent providing the accommodation is registered. This can be useful for granting discounts on access to local organisations and facilities such as public swimming pools, libraries, etc. However, this Royal Decree and the corresponding regulations fall within the competence of the Minister for the Interior. You ask if this can be adjusted. The financial, social, fiscal and other consequences arising from the entry of a person in the population register are the responsibility of the ministers concerned. Any changes are therefore also within their competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u39	Mr Minister, perhaps the number of children covered by a co-parental arrangement is more of a written question. I apologize. I have not been a member of the Chamber for a very long time, but I have raised the issue in this committee because the co-parenthood of residence is ultimately determined by a ruling of the family judge. That is why I assumed that this might have been registered and that the Minister of Justice would have an insight into this. You rightly refer to the possibility of registering a second residence with the municipality, but this concerns the parent who does not have the main place of residence: the child still has his place of residence with only one parent. As you refer further to the competence of the Committee on the Interior, I will also raise the issue there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u40	Madam President, I have a speech to make to the United Nations at 3 p.m. I have been asked to log in in in time to make the right preparations. I'm guessing I could be back here by 3:20.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u41	The agenda provided for the resumption of this sitting at 4 p.m. I am afraid that many colleagues will not be here in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u42	Several colleagues have indicated that they may be here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u43	Then I propose that the sitting be resumed at 3.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u44	Minister, on 21 February 2018, Parliament adopted a motion for a resolution on the segregation of the Métis from Belgian colonization in Africa. While the majority of requests to the former government have been met, some have not yet received a positive response. This was the case with the first request for an analysis of the legal possibility of establishing a procedure for granting or recovering nationality for the Métis children concerned. Indeed, the Métis Resolution Association (MRA) attests that some people still cannot benefit from their birth certificate because of the fact that the current legislation does not permit the issuance of birth certificates on the basis of information generally contained in the National Register, but also because of errors and discrimination committed by the Belgian colonial administration of the time. Minister, I understand that the Minister of the Interior remains responsible for the implementation of the National Register. However, at the commission of 13 January, you stated that the difference between the legal value of civil status documents (which allow the acquisition of such acts) and that of the National Register seemed somewhat outdated in this digital age. You also told us that you wanted to check with the Home SPF if a legislative amendment was possible. Have you contacted the Inland FPS for a potential legislative change in this area? If so, what emerges from this interview? Will we soon be able to see a legislative change in the legal value of the acts of the National Register? In the situation where a legislative amendment would not be possible, what is apparent from the State Archives' study of civil status documents prepared by the colonial authorities? Can we hope that these documents will be sufficient to enable them to acquire a birth certificate? You indicated that you had not received files for the profiles in question since the creation of a one-stop shop where individuals can present their documents attesting to their nationality. Since then, have you received any other files?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u45	Madam President, Minister, during the previous period of government, the resolution on the meteors was adopted unanimously. At that time, Prime Minister Michel also apologized in plenary to the numerous meteors present. That was a touching moment. It is therefore also important that we implement this resolution as soon as possible. In the meantime, the metises are already an advanced age. These people are 70 to 80 years old. We need justice in this area. Those people often don't know their mother and father. That knowledge was denied to them. Those persons are entitled to an identity. Today they do not have enough because they do not have a birth certificate, which they do need for certain administrative procedures. On 13 January, you said you were working on it and trying to find a solution. I think we're running out of time. I also notice some impatience in the association of the metises, because in their view it is a simple legislative amendment. It concerns data from the national register and documents of civil status. A specific legal possibility may be developed where it is stated that birth certificates should be based on documents from the colonial authority or from Child and Family. For this purpose, a specific legal provision should be made on which documents can serve as the basis for those documents. Or you can also make an amendment to Article 35 of the Civil Code to allow an exception for the metises. When do you expect to come up with a solution? Which solution do you prefer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u46	Mevrouw de voorzitster, collega's, you already asked questions about this some time ago. I remember that, of course. Since then, we have made some progress. Since then, I have worked hard on it with my services and my cabinet. I'd be happy to give you an update. Op de vraag van collega Van Hoof, and to Mr. From Smet, I would like to say that in this discussion it is important to define the concepts correctly. In fact, civil status documents, such as birth certificates and marriage certificates, are not issued as such, but rather their extracts and copies. In order to do so, an act of the civil registry must first be established. With respect to the Métis, the problem is that these acts have not been established. With regard to the difference between the acts of the civil state and the information of the National Register, in the digital age, it is important that the various authentic sources of public authorities are connected and not contradict each other. In a paper environment, it was possible that the information in the civil registry could not correspond to the information in the electronic national registry. The recent computerization of the civil registry and the creation of the civil registry database, which generates an automatic flow of information contained in the documents to the national registry, have enabled the development of a structure that meets the requirements of the digital age. In this way, the discrepancies between the information are eliminated. However, civil status acts must always be established in accordance with the rules of the Civil Code and not on the basis, for example, of a mere assertion by the person concerned. The filiation of a person is, for example, established by a presumption of paternity or comaternity, by a recognition or judicial decision, and not by mere assertion. It is therefore neither desirable nor necessary to amend the law on the different legal effects of the national register and the civil status record.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u47	As I said last January, the Métis are entitled to a special arrangement and to a solution by the Belgian authority to the problems relating to their actions. In my view, the application of Article 35 of the Civil Code is not a solution for the metises. The advantage of Article 35 is a court ruling which applies erga omnes and provides for the creation of a genuine instrument of birth, but the disadvantages are that this is a judicial procedure that takes up time and involves costs. In one of the eleven files delivered to my administration, the person concerned was able to draw up a civil record in this way, i.e. by judicial means. Moreover, the FPS Justice has no mandate to assist individuals in matters before the family court. Another solution lies in making legally possible the preparation of civil status documents for metises that do not have them. There are two ways to do that. In order to provide for the establishment of birth certificates for these persons, my services have, since January, contacted the Internal FPS to determine which data are available in the National Register. Indeed, the request of our interlocutor – ARM and AMB – is to be able to have birth certificates containing the information found in the National Register. He informed us that he could not report this data directly to the FPS Justice in order to comply with the GDPR. Nor can the National Register determine which persons are displaced Métis. It is the persons concerned themselves who must take these steps and apply to the National Register to have all the information which concerns them and which can be found in the National Register. Stakeholders have been asked through their associations to transmit this information to my administration in order to determine the scope we will have to give to the law we are considering. So far, we have not received a return from this request. I asked my administration to draw up a specific draft law to enable the metises belonging to the target group to produce a birth certificate on the basis of the civil status data relating to them and which may be included in the National Register. We have already received a number of documents through the General National Archives. These documents are currently being analysed by my services specializing in civil status. It is necessary that we also have concrete files or examples in order to be able to meet the needs of the person concerned as accurately and as broadly as possible. The draft is currently being written out. In answer to your second question, Mr. De Smet, the study carried out by the Kingdom Archives does not fall within my competence. The results of this study are not expected in the immediate future. However, there is very good cooperation between the Kingdom Archives and my administration. For the time being, there was no official list of available colonial documents that would allow for an analysis of whether they could be considered sufficient for the preparation of birth certificates. With regard to your third question, we have received a total of eleven files. As I indicated, the majority of these files did not meet the target group definition and did not meet the requirements of the resolution. In the end, virtually none of the documents concerned civil status. Since then, we have not received any files that would allow us to move forward in the chosen direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u48	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your specific answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which is a bit like walking in circles. After all, the information needed does not seem to be able to be given, thus avoiding any legislative amendment. Nevertheless, the hundreds of metises remain with the demand for their birth certificate. The question is whether, if it is not possible with a change of law, it can be done via your discretionary power. We owe it to the metises, after what the Belgian State has done to them, to find a solution to the problem as soon as possible. The group now has the feeling that there is turning into circles, due to a lack of information that has to come from some instance. So, Minister, I would urge you to take the matter further into consideration and see if there are any other options that could go faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u50	Dear colleague, in this final report of Belgium of 2020, GREVIO recommends that the professionals concerned be made aware of the scientific basis of parental alienation syndrome and that public opinion be made aware of this. First and foremost, the term and phenomenon of parental alienation should be distinguished from the concept of parental alienation. The notion of'syndrome', i.e. a psychological syndrome in the head of a child, is rightly a controversial notion on which there is little research to date. On the other hand, the phenomenon of parental alienation is the phenomenon in which a child facing divorce or separation completely turns away from one parent for the benefit of the other. It is a very complex subject and a multi-faceted issue. It is possible that the child is manipulated by one of the parents and is instrumentalized in a divorce. However, this phenomenon of parental alienation is not necessarily linked to sexual or gender-based violence. This may also be the offence of the relationship between the child and the parent under the influence of the other parent as a result of a conflict between the parents. In this case, it is a rupture of contact between a parent and a child which cannot be justified and which has the sole purpose of touching the other parent. Disruptions of contact between a parent and a child that may be justified by acts of violence are not taken into account here. In view of the increase in cases of conflicting divorces and conflicting relations between parents, it is important to identify and recognize such phenomena in order to be able to detect them more quickly and respond appropriately, taking into account the interests of the child and the concrete circumstances of the case. The aim is to ensure that contact between the child and his or her two parents is maintained, where the removal of the child results exclusively from the conflict between the parents without any mention of violence. This in no way prejudices the consideration of domestic violence in family cases. On this point, my services support the fight against gender-based violence and cooperate constructively with the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, in particular by contributing to the national action plan against violence against women. On your third and final question, the Judicial Training Institute organised training in 2019 but not in 2020. This was a two-day training course in which 82 magistrates participated. New training on the subject is planned for the fall of this year. The programme is still under development. Stakeholders will then be contacted. A multidisciplinary approach will be favoured with not only experienced family and youth magistrates, but also psychologists, child psychiatrists, therapists, mediators and mediators among the stakeholders. The training will be organised in the form of exchanges of professional experience. In this formula, the discussion and above all the exchange of ideas and experiences will be paramount. The aim is to put a finger on the problems and to identify possible solutions. Since the programme has not yet been finalised, the duration has not yet been fixed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u51	Minister, thank you very much for your very comprehensive answer. You stress in a very useful way the difference between parental alienation syndrome and parental alienation as such. Nevertheless, there is a consensus, perhaps not scientific, on the very relevance of the term 'parental alienation'. In the term 'disposal', there is a mechanism put in place by a parent for the specific purpose of harming, and in fact, it is known that it refers most often to mothers. At the moment, there is no scientific consensus to show that these are really existing mechanisms, but there seems to be evidence that a mother who experiences violence is being deligitized by putting this type of project in her child care strategy. It's still very worrying. Let me turn to my second observation. I hear there was a training in 2019. What was the purpose of this training? I'll try to find out, but you said there would be one in 2021. It will be multidisciplinary. What words will be brought to it? Will it be a gendered approach to this theme or is it still on an off-ground approach that is very damaging to women who are experiencing domestic violence? Perhaps I will come back with a more specific question on the content of these trainings. In any case, I encourage you to be extremely careful about these issues and to assume that if GREVIO thought that this topic should be included in the report on Belgium, there is really something to worry about and alert public opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u52	I will send you even more information about the last question you asked. I will ask the Judicial Training Institute to send you information. Do not hesitate to ask further questions if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u53	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u54	Minister, article 442/1 of the Criminal Code provides for a penalty of imprisonment and a fine for entering or occupying a house without authorization, i.e. a squat. The implementation of this article raises questions. In the case of an unoccupied but not abandoned office building, does the article apply or is it only referred to a squat in a private house or apartment? In the case of a proven squat of an office building where the owner has lodged a complaint, is the communal authority obliged to carry out an expulsion or must it wait for the judgment to be delivered?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u55	Mr De Maegd, the Criminal Code provides for the criminalization of an offence against the inviolability of the home committed by an individual under article 439 of the Criminal Code in a house, apartment, room or dwelling inhabited by another person or their outbuildings. Thus, article 442/1 of the Criminal Code provides for the squatting of uninhabited buildings or furniture in return for the violation of the extended residence. The scope of application is therefore a residual category which includes certain buildings or furniture which are not covered by article 439 of the Criminal Code. As a practical answer to the question of the scope of application, reference can be made to the parliamentary proceedings which specify in this respect that the criminalization in Article 442/1, § 1 of the Criminal Code, "covers both movable and immovable property". A boat or caravan can also be a residence. According to parliamentary work, it should not necessarily be a dwelling in the strict sense of the term, i.e. the address at which one is entered in the population register. For example, they can also be holiday homes. Uninhabited or unoccupied property may also be considered. Just think about a building that is temporarily unoccupied for renovation, sale or rental. Article 442/1 of the Criminal Code, in respect of any other premises or movable property that may or may not be used as a dwelling, may include industrial buildings, such as offices or garages. On the basis of parliamentary work, therefore, and in my view, Article 442 applies in the same way to an unoccupied office building that is not abandoned. So my answer is yes. With regard to your second question, the order to evacuate the King's prosecutor referred to in chapter 4 of the 2017 law provided that following a complaint or request, the King's prosecutor could order the evacuation. You know that this evacuation order was annulled by the Constitutional Court in its judgment of 12 March 2020. The municipal authority must, in the present state of the legislation, proceed in accordance with the rules laid down in Chapter 15b, which includes Articles 1344octies to 1344duodecies of Book IV. The municipal authority must therefore wait until the expulsion judgement referred to in article 1344 of the Judicial Code is rendered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u57	Madam President, Minister, the health crisis and containment have helped to increase the use of the Internet and social networks by 70%. As a result of this growing use, cyber-violences such as cybercontrol, cyber-harassment, cyber-surveillance and others have worsened during containment and the health crisis. These cyberviolences potentially affect anyone with an online activity. Nevertheless, some groups are particularly exposed to it. I am thinking here of young people, public figures such as men and women politicians, but also media figures or experts. However, we are not all equal when we move in the digital space. Women are the main targets of online violence, as are minorities, i.e. people who are discriminated against on a daily basis. Several studies show that women and racialized people are the first victims of such violence. This was shown very well in the documentary on cyberharassment entitled Sale Pute by Myriam Leroy and Florence Hainaut released on May 12 and which you saw – it seems to me – in the presence of the Secretary of State. This documentary challenges us in particular about the incredible violence experienced by some women on social networks, but also about the systematic and orchestrated dimension of these practices. He also questions the fact that they are largely unregulated by the platforms and that they receive little follow-up when complaints are received. It also shows that 76% of women who have been subjected to cyber-harassment will change their way of using these platforms, either by self-censorship or by leaving certain social networks. On the other hand, such violence generated stress, anxiety and, sometimes, prolonged physical violence or the continuation of physical violence. We know that the fight against violence against women is at the heart of your policy. We therefore have no doubt about your interest in cyber-harassment in general and sexist in particular. Minister, what concrete measures have been put in place to protect and monitor victims of cyberviolence? What perspectives can you give to victims of this type of harassment? Is particular attention to the fight against cyber-harassment included in the next National Security Plan? What types of actions are you currently taking to strengthen our judicial system in the face of cyberviolence in general, and cyber-harassment in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u58	Madam President, dear colleague, our Penal Code contains a number of provisions to combat cyberviolence and cyber-harassment. The draft Penal Code incorporates these provisions while improving them. This reform will strengthen the fight against this type of crime. To combat cyberviolence, offences of slander and defamation punish anyone who violates an individual's honour by posting a derogatory comment on a social network or discussion forum, for example. Criminalization of insults may punish insults published online. The draft Criminal Code would facilitate the prosecution of such acts, since they no longer constituted offences prosecuted on the basis of a complaint by the person claiming to be offended. Fake computing and the use of fakes are criminal offences that apply in the event of cyberviolence. The falsification concerns, for example, the creation of an e-mail address on behalf of another person and the sending of messages on his or her behalf. There is also the provision relating to the public use of false names which makes it an offence for an individual to publicly bear a name that does not belong to him. The draft Criminal Code contains in one provision only offences relating to forgery, the use of forgery and the use of false information technology. In this way, forgery in writing or on other durable media, and the use of forgery, will be criminalized. Some criminal provisions specifically protect minors on social networks and respond to online sexual crime. Articles 377ter and 377quater of the Criminal Code criminalize the offence of grooming. Article 433bis of the same Code criminalizes cyberpredation. Voyeurism and non-consensual dissemination of sexual images and recordings are covered by article 377 of the Criminal Code. These provisions are reflected in a draft reform of sexual offences, which will be incorporated into the draft Criminal Code. The abuse of a social network or electronic means of communication may constitute harassment within the meaning of Article 444bis of the Criminal Code if the peace of the harassed person is seriously affected. Article 145 of the Act of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications punishes various forms of cyber-harassment, such as harassment by telephone or Internet, such as e-mails and statements published on interactive web pages and others. The draft Penal Code contains only a general provision punishing harassment. This applies to all forms of harassment, including harassment using means of telecommunication. In addition, it is made clear in the legislation that serious disruption of tranquillity is punishable, even if it is a one-time act or is the result of a single act. I would also like to mention very briefly the approval by the Council of Ministers on 7 May of a preliminary draft law on the collection and retention of identification, traffic and location data in the electronic communications sector and their access by the authorities. This law restores the annulment by the Constitutional Court of the Act of 29 May 2016 on the collection and retention of data in the electronic communications sector. In the fight against cyberviolence and cyber-harassment, it is also important that judicial authorities be able to identify users of the electronic communication service and to verify whether there have been contacts between victims and suspects of such offences in order to enable the effective implementation of articles 46bis and 88bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation. Identification and traffic data must be kept by operators. As you point out in your question, cyber-harassment can take very different forms and have disastrous consequences for victims. They therefore deserve special attention. With regard to specific initiatives concerning the reception of victims and assistance specifically targeted at victims of this form of violence, you should contact the competent minister of the federated entities. Innumerable initiatives are being taken. Thus, I can refer to the law of 4 May 2020 to combat the non-consensual dissemination of sexual images and recordings. The Act gives victims of unconsented dissemination of images and recordings of a sexual nature the opportunity to contact the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, which can assist them by informing them of their rights, duties and possibilities of action. The Institute may initiate judicial proceedings with the consent of the victim in order to have these images removed. To this end, the Institute places a handbook at the disposal of victims on its website. However, cyberviolence is also a structural problem and needs to be addressed holistically. Children, young people and adults need to learn how to safely manage the wealth offered by the Internet, while being fully aware of the dangers involved. An important role therefore also lies in education and prevention. BeSafe provides prevention advice. Clicksafe, Child Focus's website, offers useful advice for children, adolescents, parents and professionals on safe and responsible internet use for and by children and young people. In addition, the telephone and chat helplines of the competent services of the Communities are also an important instrument both in terms of prevention and in terms of support for victims or in terms of the steps they can take. In this context, of course, I must stress the limitations imposed by Article 150 of the Constitution. If the offences in question turn out to be press offences, it is the assize court that is competent, which will de facto lead to impunity. That is why we want to amend Article 150 of the Constitution. I shall come back to this point in a moment following a question put by our colleague Katja Gabriëls. Finally, our police and judicial system are adapting to the new challenges of cybernetics. The comprehensive security briefing note and the National Police Security Plan, as well as the plans currently being prepared within the government, will certainly put the appropriate emphasis in this framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u59	Minister, thank you. Your answer is super complete. It will be very useful to be able to return to this when the report is available. I would like to highlight two points. You rightly recall the legal provisions. Many tools are already present. You are talking about elements that will be amended not only in the Criminal Code but also in the Constitution. You know that we are your allies and that we support everything that can facilitate the end of impunity for this type of violence. Nevertheless, I think that beyond what is already provided for in the law, there is obviously a question of enforcing it. It is this point that concentrates my concern. While mechanisms exist, victims find it difficult to file complaints and when they have done so, it is the police and magistrates who find it difficult to make meaningful and relevant progress to protect victims. Knowing that you are extremely sensitive to this issue, I should not remind you that we are in a situation of emergency regarding violence against women in general and cyber-harassment in particular. One of the presenters of the documentary I mentioned is still experiencing violence barely imaginable every day on social networks. The death of a teenage girl in Ghent just a few days ago was reported as a result of the posting of images of the rape she suffered by five people. This is the reality of many people in our society. Beyond the mechanisms of the Penal Code that you are going to put in place, it really needs to become the number one priority of our government, of you, of Mrs Verlinden. I hear that this will be incorporated into the minister's next plan. I welcome this, but we need to move forward. Such impunity can no longer be endured.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u60	It is a very technical question and I would like to refer to its written version.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u61	Following the judgment cited, the Gaming Commission removed the relevant KB from its website on 28 May. It has also published an information note stating that for Class 4, namely the betting offices, it is no longer possible to exploit games of chance on virtual sporting events. The Committee asks the licence holders to stop operating it. In 2020, only 491 aircraft were operated. The impact of the judgment is therefore quite small and especially important for one operator. It is too early to take a position on whether or not to issue a new KB. Before taking a position, I think it would be appropriate to await the ongoing investigation by the European Commission of the burden on the Belgian State of unlawful State aid in favour of the Derby SA in connection with these games of chance. I have already asked the Gaming Commission to monitor compliance with the judgment. The Gaming Commission will not fail to initiate, where appropriate, a sanction procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u62	You give a short but clear answer. Several courts have already ruled on the problem in the past. Virtual bets have also been found to be illegal on several occasions. The destruction of the KB is now a fact and I have also noticed that the KB of the website has disappeared. I hope that the information note of 28 May will be properly checked. I hope that the Gaming Commission will carry out that task correctly. Soon we will have to have the debate on virtual bets.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u63	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Segers' 55018423C was postponed to next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u64	Mr Minister, in the policy statement and in writing, I have already asked questions about this issue and my first question in Parliament, which was a year ago, was also about this. A secure Penitentiary Research and Clinical Observation Centre, or a POKO, would be set up in the new Haren prison. In the meantime, a temporary centre would be established in the prison of Saint Gillis. The then Minister of Justice replied to me on 29 January 2020 that before the official opening of the centre an observation was made at the request of the court of appeal of Antwerp. According to my information, no observation has happened since then, or maybe another one. It's not clear to me if it's about the same person. Is that right? Your predecessor also wanted to stress that the centre was already ready to carry out in-depth observations with the already existing qualified personnel. If this information is effective, how is it that since then, no in sightings seem to have happened? What is the actual maximum capacity? How many simultaneous observations is the current occupation capable of? This is not a question of theoretical capacity in the future. It was meant to evolve to eventually thirty people at the same time. The observation center in Haren would normally be put into use immediately in mid 2022, along with the rest of Haren's prison. We then learned that the file for the modifications in Saint-Gilles is still pending with the Government of the Buildings. Are these adjustments still being made to move back to Haren a little later? Is it really still the intention to go to Saint Gillis in the meantime, or is it leaving the file of the Government of the Buildings, knowing that they will go to Haren later? What will happen to the building if work is carried out? What will happen in the outbuilding in St. Gillis after the move to Haren? Earlier, your predecessor also replied to me that the recruitments had started from the approval of the Treasury Inspectorate on 7 November 2019. Who has been recruited since then and when about? How is it that it seems that we still have to start further implementing the framework and why were the internal calls only launched very recently, namely in March and April? Did they not start after the advice of the Finance Inspectorate in November 2019? Then why is that? What is the further timing of recruitment if we still have to look externally after the internal phase? When are we going to get to full speed? I understood that there would be 1 psychologist, 1 social assistant, 11 nurses, 5 care staff, 3 bachelors, a director and 2 administrative experts.What is the current content of this framework? So who's working already? My question showed that one psychiatrist was also announced earlier. Is it true that it is no longer foreseen, or is it a forgetfulness in an earlier answer from you? How do you assess the current and future occupation if you compare it with the Pieter Baan Centrum in the Netherlands, which counts a lot of psychologists and psychiatrists for a similar occupation? There may also be 30 people on concomitant treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u65	Madam President, Mr Segers, in reply to your first question, I can confirm that, so far, only one forensic psychiatric investigation has been ordered to observe. An observation shall be made by order of the competent investigating judge and/or judge of judgment, in accordance with the law on internment. The internment law provides for a step-by-step system, in which an expert examination is initially ordered. Only if such an investigation reveals the need for an observation, the prisoner concerned should be transferred to the observation centre. The ten places in the prison of Saint Gillis allow us to provide for a theoretical introduction of a POKO. Once the staff framework has been completed, active communication with partners will take place. At the moment there are ten places in the prison of Saint-Gilles. After the works, due to be completed by the end of September 2021, capacity will be increased to 30 places. In reply to your fourth question, I note that the psychiatric annex you speak of is already in use. That is where the ten places already planned are located. The adjustments that had to be made, in order to increase capacity, concern only a limited refresh-up and a smaller adjustment of the existing infrastructure within the department. The budget for the file is registered. The works are planned and would be completed by the end of 2021. As already mentioned, the POKO in Haren will be in a separate infrastructure, which was specifically designed for this purpose. In reply to your fifth question, I can tell you that the framework has been worked out and that recruitment can continue. Unfortunately, no one has yet been recruited. Only recently an internal call was launched to give experienced personnel who are still active in the PSD and the medical service the opportunity to switch. Interviews of the candidates, both Dutch and French, will be held on 17 and 18 June 2021. Subsequently, external recruitments will take place in order to achieve the full staffing framework. In reply to your sixth question, I state that priority should be given to the recruitment of other profiles. As a result, the calls were not launched until 2021. Due to the very limited number of inspections, the FPS Justice has opted to first shape the recruitment of other staff profiles, which was also urgently needed and is. In reply to your seventh question, I can inform you that the staff of the care equipes and the psychosocial service are currently employed if they carry out assignments in the context of an observation. For psychiatrists, it should be made clear that it is not about recruiting someone but about a contract of acceptance, i.e. an independent contract. For the sake of clarity, it should be underlined that psychiatric expertise should be located under the appointed expert and that the staff of the observation centre should be deemed to acquire observation data that should allow the appointed experts to draw their conclusions. Finally, the POKO is based on the philosophy of the Pieter Baan Centre, but adapted to Belgian reality. After all, our legislation differs from the legislation of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. One thing is not quite clear to me yet. Apparently, there is now a capacity of 10 people. Then why isn't it being used now? Are we waiting for the recruitment? It was said earlier that people were ready to start. This government is doing a lot in the fight against sexual violence. That was necessary, too. I am proud to be part of this majority that addresses this issue. One of the first things I was allowed to see in this House is the discussion of the report of the Supreme Court of Justice in the Steve Bakelmans case and the murder of Julie Van Espen. For me, the main conclusion from that report was the total lack of risk assessment. Despite the previous arrests and punishments of Steve Bakelmans, the Justice Department did not know who she was dealing with at all and could not properly assess him and thus lacked appropriate punishment, protection and follow-up measures. Now there's this horrible rape case. Two adults are in remand. Without an observation center, we will once again not know or fail to know exactly who we are dealing with, what profiles they are and what appropriate punishment and/or protection measures should be imposed. The findings of the Supreme Court of Justice continue to apply in full in this respect. However, this is essential in the fight against impunity and recidivism and for a secure society. It is quite clear to my group. A proper observation of suspects in remand, especially suspects of sexual crimes, should be the rule. For this, a penitentiary observation center, a POKO, is indispensable. Court psychiatrists now rely on gradations, so on one visit, in black and white, it is decided whether criminals such as Hans Van Themsche, Steve Bakelmans, Roland Janssen and the suspects in the current rape case can be accounted for. One visit is not enough, but the black and white system is not enough either. We want to determine the system of the Netherlands, where judges determine on the basis of some legal psychiatrists after 40 days in an observation center, whether or not they are responsible or whether they are not or are partially responsible. Combination sentences can then be imposed, with a penalty and then a treatment, which lasts an average of eight years. That is the safest, most efficient and most effective thing for us. It's also important not to waste any more time. You can count on our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u67	At a time when vaccination campaigns are in full swing, the health situation in prisons remains a concern, as we have seen recently with the death of a prisoner with covid-19 in Termonde prison. While the external situation tends to improve, the evolution of the health crisis in prison continues to give rise to concerns and difficulties related to the impact of the health crisis on daily organization. The priority vaccination of all detainees – and not just those over the age of 65 or suffering from co-morbidity – could prove to be a way out and offer assurances, both to prisoners, their relatives and to agents, of a return to a more flexible situation. But it seems that our prisons are struggling to ensure vaccinations of prisoners when they are classified as high-risk environments and specifically identified by the Advisory Committee of Bioethics of Belgium in the scale of prioritization of vaccination deployment. Given the specific nature of prisons in terms of risks, what is the status of the inmate vaccination campaign to date? What are the possible obstacles to a priority vaccination of prisoners? How many of them have been validly vaccinated to date? Is the situation identical in the north and south of the country? Will there be a change of priority in the planned vaccination campaigns in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u68	Colleagues, thank you for these questions. I will answer Ms. Zanchetta and Ms. Rohonyi's first question: 2,813 inmates in the at-risk group have already received a first dose of vaccine. The administration of the second dose of vaccine to this at-risk group began on June 1, that is, yesterday. The administration of the first dose of vaccine to all other inmates was initiated at the same time, i.e. from yesterday. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that the planning and execution of vaccination has required a lot of organisation and that, fortunately, everything has been going well so far. If this has gone well, I would like to make it clear, it is thanks to the commitment of all our departments concerned, to which I would like to thank you very much. In concrete terms, according to the current schedule, by the end of July all detainees should be vaccinated. Let me turn to Mrs Zanchetta's second question. There are currently no obstacles to the vaccination of all detainees since, as I have just communicated to you, this vaccination is taking its course intensively. For your third question, Ms. Zanchetta, as I have just said, 2,813 inmates in the risk group have already received a first dose. There is obviously no difference in treatment between prisons in Flanders, Wallonia or Brussels. I would also like to point out that prison staff have been given priority since they are a closed group. Thanks to the dynamism of the staff and the excellent collaboration with Empreva, this operation also takes place in a very positive way. With regard to your fourth question, since vaccination campaigns for all detainees started on 1 June, the issue of priority is no longer relevant. With regard to Mrs Rohonyi's second question, the vaccination of all detainees, as started on 1 June, is an essential measure which must allow a gradual return to normal life. A scheme for easing has been drawn up and submitted to the prevention council and also to the trade union organisations. The aim of the proposed measures in prisons is to bring them as far as possible into line with the decisions of the Consultation Committee. The aim is then to bring these flexibilities into force on 9 June, so next week, like what is planned for free society, and this, of course, remains very vigilant about the health precautions that remain necessary to avoid any reversal once the measures have been relaxed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u69	Minister, thank you for your full response and reassuring words that will allow inmates to return to a life as normal as it can be in prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u70	Minister, thank you. I apologize in advance, because my reply will be a little longer than that of my colleague. I thank you for taking into account the importance of vaccination of prison officers and inmates, as this is a matter of meeting their promiscuity. This situation affects all ages and detainees, regardless of their possible co-morbidity. Vaccination of vulnerable persons and those who care for them has been ensured in nursing homes. In the prison environment, we must follow the same logic, especially since the question also arises of the contagion of the visitors who go there to ensure the rights of the prisoners as well as their mental health and the maintenance of their social link. I understand that the figures have changed and that, in doing so, you confirmed those that the Minister of Health told us yesterday, that 2,813 prisoners would have received their first dose of vaccine. That is obviously positive. Nevertheless, we are still less than a third of the inmates who would have received their first injection, while in the outside world we are more than one in two adults. In short, the prison situation does not correspond to the reality of free society, contrary to the objective you had stated at our previous meeting. I also hear that some relaxations would be planned for 9 June, as will be the case on the outside. I welcome this, but I still wonder about their feasibility, since the vaccination coverage in prison is not up to the one observed outside. Therefore, I hope that vaccination will accelerate in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u71	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u72	Thank you for the questions. Your questions are timely since I visited Hamme's justice of the peace this morning. I was able to personally see how this new system works. In reply to Ms Rohonyi, the establishment of the central register of personal protection had been carefully considered from a logistical, technical or legal point of view. The postponement of its implementation to 1 June was justified by the desire to provide a new and successful e-service. It is in this context that this new tool has been developed, in collaboration with some of the actors involved, including justices of the peace and clerks, for many months, to ensure that it is as accessible and user-friendly as possible for anyone who uses it. In addition, the computerized register has been tested in several stages with different target groups, including lawyers. The problems you are talking about, Mrs Rohonyi, were raised by bars during the first test that took place during the Easter holidays. When these problems were communicated last May, they had already been solved by my services. The lawyers performed a second test from 12 to 25 May. It was essentially intended to reassure them. As I speak to you, I have not yet received any return from them. However, my services ensured that the register was fully functional and operational on 1 June, which I was able to see personally today. I am aware that some technical adjustments will still have to be made to the register, but my administration and the actors concerned will follow the development of its implementation with attention. To this end, a task force was created. It will meet every week, starting on Friday, 4 June. It includes, in particular, representatives of the bar associations. The objective is to evaluate and improve the registry in operation. Its members will ensure that the various problems disappear as soon as possible and do not become an obstacle. It is true that, in its current state, the platform does not allow employees of professional administrators to encode data directly into the register. This morning, a lawyer was present and testified. All data must be manually encoded by the administrator. This results from the fact that the law considers this to be an intuitu personae mandate, i.e. that the administrator is personally responsible for his or her duties. Some lawyers combine several tens or hundreds of appointments as interim administrators and delegate partially or entirely the management of these cases to their employees, whether lawyers or not. It is obvious that these lawyers do not personally deal with the administrations they are responsible for. In its 2019 recommendations, the Supreme Council of Justice believes that the number of warrants per administrator should be limited in order to ensure that they do indeed intervene in a personal manner and that they are able to provide a humane and personalized service to protected persons. This consideration will be continued with a view to establishing a legal framework for provisional directors. Nevertheless, certain tasks, particularly those of an administrative nature, must be able to be prepared by the administrator's staff, regardless of the size of his firm. In accordance with the law, the administrator may be assisted in its management by one or more persons acting under his or her responsibility. The register should therefore allow for preparatory work to be carried out by a staff member on the understanding that validation should be carried out by the administrator. The implementation of this possibility will have to be discussed in the framework of the task force I mentioned. In the meantime, administrators will actually need to manually paste all data relating to the administrations they are responsible for. This should not, however, constitute an insurmountable burden for two reasons. First, because the deadlines for the report are staggered from file to file throughout the year. The administrators did not suddenly have an extraordinary encoding work to do on June 1. Secondly, because preparatory administrative work is still possible, even if it is outside the register, since the register does not currently provide for this work to be carried out directly within it. Mrs Van Vaerenbergh complains that the scheme would have been introduced hastily. I would remind her that the central register was introduced by the law of 21 December 2018 and that the decision on this matter was postponed twice, because the IT application was not ready. Over the past few months we have worked very hard and tested a lot by different users. During the last tests, no blocking problems came to light. We therefore see no reason to postpone the start. I saw the application myself today. Things are looking good, and they're just looking good. She works, too. Of course, as with all computer projects in the public and private sectors, things still need to be improved. We are also aware that there may still be practical problems with the use of the register. That is why the Task Force will meet weekly in order to solve the problems pragmatically and incrementally. One of my cabinet staff is involved, Mr David Ghyselbrecht, who knows the file very well. The time savings are enormous. I was at the peace dish this morning. It covers 141,000 protected persons all over the country. You can imagine how much paper we're talking about. I saw the paper file and then the digital file. The various petitions are submitted digitally via the register and automatically flow to the old system MACH. All the data goes straight into that. So nothing more needs to be typed over. There is therefore time savings and a smaller number of incorrect registrations. Moreover, the annual reports, which will also be digital, are much easier to monitor or monitor automatically. Verifications of the current account have yet to be carried out with a calculator. Thanks to the digital availability of the data, the computer will perform the verifications automatically. There is no need to print out documents and send them by post; the file can simply be consulted digitally. The status can be monitored, as I could see myself: if a new message comes in, you will immediately receive a notification via e-mail. We note that by reducing paperwork there is more time for physical contact with the administrator and pupil. In some situations video sessions can offer a solution. They rightly asked why the digital road is mandatory for professional directors, but not for family members. Well, the 80-year-old lady who is the director of her husband who lives in a nursing home must still be able to do so on paper if it is not electronic. So she can do that either through the kiosks on the peace dish, not necessarily the peace dish of the place where the pupil is dominated, or at home if it can be digital. If it happens on paper, those documents will be scanned. Of course, we will strongly encourage the use of the register, because it has many advantages. One can fill it in remotely and one has direct access to the documents. That is a serious step forward. Are the kiosk computers in the peace court protected? However, another reset is needed to avoid anyone who has just filled out the file for another person being unable to view it. I believe that this can also be resolved in another way. In any case, it proves that the Justice Department can be quick, human and performant. Justice is fast here, because it goes digital, which is an example for many other courts such as the juvenile court, to which Mr Dillen often refers. Justice is also human here, because thanks to the reduced paper load more time is available for the people. Finally, the judiciary is a performer here, because the monitoring of the annual reports can be automatic and can thus be countered by abuses. So far, the story of my experience on the Hamme site this morning, which gives me a positive view, even though I know that things can be improved. If that's the way to digitization that Justice is going on, then it's promising. I would also like to thank all the staff and, of course, my predecessor Koen Geens, who has prepared the work well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u73	Minister, thank you for your answers. There are two positive things that emerge from this. There is first of all the setting up of a task force to evaluate and improve the registry, proof that you are aware that this system remains perfectable. However, technical problems will continue to arise in the coming months and, therefore, the best solution would have been to post-implementation. This was not the option chosen. Aside from this, a first test was put in place for which the problems could be solved. A second has been put in place and you say on this subject that you have not yet had the returns, apart from what emerged from your meeting today with the justice of the peace. That is precisely why it would be more than useful to extend your consultation to other actors, other professionals, who will have to use this register. I am thinking of the clerks or magistrates because I have had feedback from them that there are persistent serious problems, including repeated difficulties with connection to the identity card or the lawyer's card, disorderly access to the files, tedious encoding. Questions also remain regarding the compliance of this program with the GDPR. Who will have access to this register and under what circumstances, knowing that it concerns sometimes very sensitive data? You mentioned the possibility of continuing to work with the paper files, but I did not understand whether it was a formal agreement with those users, or whether it was only the justices of the peace you met who showed some flexibility in this regard. You would have to launch a signal, whether through a ministerial meeting or circular, to call on all these actors to show flexibility until the system is in place. There is really an insistent request from magistrates, lawyers and clerks to that effect, which must be able to be heard because they are the ones who will have to use this register. Therefore, it is important to listen to them. Failure to do so at the time of the development of this system should allow it to do so at the time of its implementation and further development.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u74	Minister, we also see the advantages of the application. You outlined the benefit of time savings. You also said that you had a very positive experience in Hamme today. On the ground, we had received the signal that there were still a few problems, not only with the training, which had to be given rather quickly, and with the manual, which is still missing, but also with the technical side of the matter. This is usually the case with new electronic computer applications. Hopefully that signal will be picked up and the task force will ensure that the application works smoothly in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u75	Question No 55018163C by Mrs Sophie Rohonyi is postponed. Question No 55018338C by Mrs Katleen Bury is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u76	Mr Minister, I am asking you because we learn in Het Laatste Nieuws that a number of European countries are the subject of espionage operations through Denmark, where transatlantic cables for the exchange of information between North America and Europe end. These operations were visibly carried out specifically against politicians, Angela Merkel being concerned in particular, and with the complicity of the Danish intelligence services. The unfair and illegal practices of the United States vis-à-vis its allies have long been known, as Edward Snowden has already revealed them in his time. We see that American intelligence services do not hesitate to violate the rights of Europeans on a daily basis, without any sanction being taken. I would therefore like to ask you, in your capacity as Minister responsible for State Security. Do you know if Belgium is involved in this spying operation? If so, what politicians or services would have been monitored, and for what reasons? Do you denounce this American interference in Europe, as well as this flagrant violation of fundamental rights on our continent? What concrete reaction does your Government envisage with regard to the United States?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u77	Colleagues, the Sûreté de l'Etat informs me that I am not aware of the fact that Belgium, its institutions, its agents and its services would have been the target of this spying operation. State Security, like all of us, has also learned about this information through the media recently. This information indicates that the Danish services concerned are the military intelligence services. If the information published in the press is in line with reality, namely that the Americans actually spyed on the European leaders, then I would condemn these practices very strongly. Given that the government does not currently have concrete information that would justify a response, I do not think it is desirable to respond to it at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u78	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hope that this issue will be dealt with with with as much energy as is done for cases involving other countries that may be strategic opponents of the United States. Indeed, when it comes to the Americans, our reactions are often more timid. We must not be naive, Edouard Snowden has already revealed all the American espionage practices, proof to the key. So it's neither fantasy nor paranoia; it's a reality. I will come back to you to receive more information and explanations to verify these American acts that attack our fundamental rights. I would also like to hear from other people who are concerned about this issue. I find it strange that we are the only group to ask this question when it comes to the United States!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u79	Madam President, Minister, there has been a lot of ink in recent days about the persecution of hate speech. Several opinion papers have been published on this subject. That's the way it should be in a public debate. One would almost forget that inciting hatred and violence is already criminal in our country. In fact, it is part of several international and European treaties that our country has co-signed. These require Belgium to provide criminal sanctions for inciting discrimination, hatred or violence based on race, colour, origin, religion or belief, nationality or ethnic origin. Inciting hatred and violence has been punishable in our country by the anti-discriminate law of 10 May 2007, in particular under Article 22 of this law in conjunction with Article 444 of the Criminal Code. There is already extensive case law on it. For example, the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights have stated several times that not all hateful statements are covered by the principle of freedom of expression. However, we are now voting to stop criminalising the inciting of hatred. Some, for example, use the condemnation of four Members of Front Station in Mechelen to question our entire anti-discrimination legislation, which is very unfortunate. We must guard the border between freedom of expression and the prohibition of discrimination, hatred and violence. I had the following questions for you. How is our case law generally judged about inciting hatred and violence? Is there sufficient evidence in the judgments and judgments as to why this is sufficient grounds for conviction? How do you reconcile this with international and European regulations, where inciting hatred is still punishable? What next steps will you take to effectively prosecute hate-speakers and those inciting violence? How will you guarantee the important principle of freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u80	Madam President, Mrs Gabriels, thank you for this interesting question. It is true that there has been a lot of discussion about this. It's still up to date today, because I just learned that the Mechelen court has convicted a person for bringing a Hitler greeting to the Breendonk fortress. He is convicted of negationism, but also, I would mention, for inciting violence, discrimination and hatred. It's still absolute topicality, and that's good. It is good that there is a debate on this, but I think it is important to know the facts. I would like to dot the i, because there are a lot of things that have been said in the last few days that aren't right. First of all, when we talk about criminal hate speech, we talk about "inciting hatred, violence, discrimination, for the sake of one's origin, nationality, faith, sex or sexual preference." That's criminal hate speech. It is not the opinion itself that is punishable, but the consequence of it. It's about the assault. Inciting the public to hate behaviour, inciting discrimination and inciting violence make it a criminal offence. There is established case law of the Constitutional Court, the judgment of 12 February 2008, which says that there must be an incentive to do something, to set it up, to incite it. The mere dissemination of information, ideas or criticism is insufficient to bring about the crime. I agree that the distinction, the boundary between what is allowed and what is not, must be well guarded. The framework is clear: freedom of expression is an absolute fundamental right, as enshrined in Article 19 of the Constitution. That is the rule, and the restrictions must be absolutely the exceptions. The exception states, as I said earlier, that it is punishable by criminal law to encourage hatred, violence or discrimination on grounds of nationality, race, faith, sex or community. In other words, insulting, hurting and blasphemy can all be done. Of course, you don't have to agree, but it's not a criminal offence. Mrs Gabriels, the border between free speech and criminal hate speech is something other than saying that we should take certain offences out of criminal law. I heard some of you pleading not to criminalize inciting hatred anymore. They do so either because of a lack of knowledge, or because they have another intention. Yes, you may hate your neighbor, or the communists may do so without any problem, but as soon as you publicly call on others to hate your neighbor, that is punishable. Inciting hatred, violence or discrimination: it is all equally punishable. This is stated in several Belgian laws, from 1981 to 2003 and 2007 to 2014, which were always approved by a very large majority by Parliament and were not tested afterwards either. Moreover, the exceptions to freedom of expression, inciting violence, discrimination, but also hatred, are mentioned literally in international treaties and in European decisions and case law. I refer specifically to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination in 1965. It's going back that far. It criminalizes the inciting of hatred against people because of race. I refer to the 1966 International BuPo Convention, which also criminalizes inciting hatred. I refer to the Framework Decision of the European Council of 28 November 2008, where inciting hatred is also punishable. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, claiming that the Belgian law can now be amended and incited to hate can no longer be punishable is either populist, because it is impossible because of our international obligations, or it is poorly intentioned, I see no other possibility. In other words, claiming that one can no longer criminalize inciting hatred is not right. That cannot be done, because we have an international obligation, not only European but also international, to enforce this criminality. By the way, the same people who claim that they no longer want to criminalize hatred take a very dubious attitude, because in 2019 a very large majority of Parliament, including your party, Madam President, adopted the law of 5 May 2019. The Law of 5 May 2019 provides for the adaptation of Article 20 of the 1981 Law on the Punishment of Racism and Xenophobia. Your party approved it. That article expressly states that any person who minimizes or denies the circumstances referred to in Article 444 of the Criminal Code, acts corresponding to the crime of genocide, crimes against humanity or a war crime, knowing or supposedly knowing that such behaviour could be punishable either by a person, a group, a community or a member of it to discrimination, violence or hatred. That was approved, including by your party, Madam President. In other words, I see some ambiguity between what was adopted in 2019 and what is being said today. There is also, of course, case law of the European Court of Human Rights. The most controversial case is, of course, the Le Pen case, in 2010. There have also been several statements in our country. I refer to that of the correctional court in Liège and the court of appeal in 2017, where a French 'comic' had performed in Herstal. During that performance he had made statements inciting racial hatred and that racial superiority, and he was condemned for this at first instance and by appeal. Very interesting are two court cases where the correct courts of Hasselt and Ghent were presented with the assessment of a series of Facebook messages. Those messages were posted following the failed coup d'état in Turkey on 15 July 2016. Supporters of the Erdogan regime then reacted strongly against persons who could be linked to the Gülen movement. In the Hasselt case, these were Facebook messages that called for the beheading or hanging of alleged Gülen trailers or the burning of their homes or businesses. In the Ghent case, it was about inciting hatred against individuals, associations, commerce and schools. In several posts they called for destruction, arson, rape, and were threatened with physical violence. Here it comes. In both judgments, the courts left no doubt that these were press crimes, but that Article 150 of the Constitution could not be prosecuted. In other words, because of the current dragonflying of Article 150 of the Constitution, these people, who called for the burning of houses and the decapitating of people, cannot be prosecuted. If we look at the case law, we can say that the line between free speech and criminal hate speech is quite clear and straightforward. The caselaw obviously has mechanisms to control itself, for example through the establishment of an appeal or a cassation appeal, to monitor judgments in individual cases which may differ from that line. Mrs Gabriels, it is not my job to amend or extend criminal law. It is up to me and the entire government to amend Article 150 of the Constitution, so that not only racist hate speech, but every form of criminal hate speech is punished in practice, including the cases in which Erdogan supporters attacked members of the Gülen movement. After all, if we find that the Constitution is the reverse of what was actually meant, because of the de facto impunity by not correcting certain press releases, then we must dare to act out of respect for that same Constitution. Every extremist, from whatever ideological angle, who calls for hatred, violence and discrimination, must be treated consistently in the same way. Whether it is left-wing extremism, right-wing extremism or jihadextremism, whether it is inciting hatred or violence on grounds of colour, origin, belief, sex or sexual preference, whether it is a print, a picture or a text, which is punishable, must be prosecuted. It is time we put an end to impunity in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u81	Minister, I don't know if you know, but I didn't ask the question. Mrs Gabriels asked you a question. It seems like you're answering my alleged question, but that's not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u82	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation and clarification. I think it was necessary. It is indeed a very topical debate, but it is important to conduct the debate correctly. Hence my question. Freedom of speech is indeed in our party's DNA, and it will always be. It is also an absolute fundamental right, as you said. You have also said that what is already punishable today is inciting violence, hatred and discrimination. This will continue to be a criminal offence, but this must also be prosecuted and punished, as you clearly said. That is not evident today. Hence the agreement in the government agreement that this impunity must be eliminated by amending the strict procedures set out in Article 150 of the Constitution. Let us continue to conduct this debate in a serene manner, not in order to restrict freedom of expression, on the contrary, but to avoid impunity for acts that are serious, that are already punishable today and that should logically be punishable, but are not prosecuted enough today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic501x.u83	Debates of the European Parliament 55018049C) by Mr Vanden Burre and Mr Vanden Burre, (Doc. 55018247C by Mrs Fonck were postponed.
