ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u2	The general discussion was resumed. The general discussion has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u3	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the pensions budget line is the first item on the agenda. Pensioners may also be the first to be dealt with. I have for a long time doubted whether I would take the floor in the thematic debate, because I have been looking for your competence in the budget and programme law and it is not very much addressed. Haven't you been forgotten? Or haven't you done your best for pensioners? Or will you not have a policy next year? When I asked you that question earlier, you replied that this is a hors du budget. So you are acting outside the budget. That is a bizarre reaction, especially when we go back to history, which is short, because you have not been Minister of Pensions for very long. When the Vivaldi government took office at the end of 2020, that is to say not so long ago, a major pension reform was announced, which is absolutely necessary. That would happen, I have to remind you - by September 2021, so about a year later. According to the coalition agreement, the aim of the proposal was to control and reduce the cost of ageing, which you may agree to, as we have done in the Michael administration. This became one of the main tasks of the government, there was a lot of poeha around. I have questioned you on several occasions and you will admit that I have been very patient. I was always polite in my questioning. You have also always said very politely that you were studying, that you were having discussions and so on. With all our group, we were eagerly looking forward to September 2021. I had prepared myself for that. One morning, I remember, because I brought my daughter, who had missed the train, to class. I heard you suddenly announce on the radio program De Morning the so-called major reform plans, which you would discuss further in the government, but what turned out to be? Those weren't reform plans at all. You only left a few red balloons on, as you had done before, and I pointed out to you in plenary - with supplementary pensions, a system that you thought was right and which you had lost your eye on, because there might have been something to pick up on in order to maintain the first pillar of pensions. The balloons you sent to the world in September mean that people can retire more easily, after 42 instead of 44 years worked, and that a minimum pension can be granted from 10 years worked. That's what guaranteed you. When I heard that, although in a figuratively sense, I fell off my chair. That didn't just happen to me, because apparently you hadn't talked those red balloons through with your colleagues in the Vivaldi government. Those balloons were quickly punctured, because your colleagues fell completely out of the sky. You also announced that these balloons would be budget-neutral, but Parliament was not further informed. Eventually, the Prime Minister himself had to intervene and your coalition partner Open Vld reacted rather sharply. I also heard the Minister of Finance react rather sharply that morning. In order to keep the sweet peace, the Minister has promised you a second sitting in late autumn. I have kept that in mind and asked you questions about it in the context of the discussion of your policy paper. Today I'm doing it again here. In the meantime we are almost ready for the solstice, so it is no longer late autumn but winter. I am disappointed again here because I had some expectations of the ambitious plans in the initial coalition agreement. Madam Minister, I must say today that you are putting my patience to the test. My disappointment stems from the fact that your pension reform can no longer be taken seriously. In your proposal of September, there was no mention of the alignment of the various pension systems, the harmonisation provided for in the government agreement. Nor was there any need to strengthen solidarity between the highest and the lowest pensions, nor to rationalise the periods treated. In other words, you have not used the two months you had to prepare for your second seat to succeed, to work out the promised and absolutely necessary structural pension reform. You could at least have consulted constructively with all the partners in the field, the social partners, the experts, the institutions, the universities and so on. Your first exchange of views did not take place until early December, particularly with employers. Apparently they weren't really convinced of your plans, so we could read in the press. They have actually completely denounced your proposals. In the 17 pages of your policy paper, you announced that you would continue the pension reform in three stages. The first stage has been completed: that is the increase in minimum pensions, the wage ceilings, a correction coefficient for the self-employed. All well and good, we have even supported those measures. But you're putting the horse behind the cart, Madam Secretary. Indeed, there is no funding at all, despite the fact that the specific costs of ageing account for 3.2 % of GDP or nearly 9 billion euros. In other words, your project plan belongs in the reverse world. We have not yet seen anything of the reforms in pensions and therefore of the labour market, except that you have encouraged and rewarded the 'passives'. The minimum pensions are going up, and there is also a sharp increase in benefits for those who have difficulties. We all have no problem with that, but that will not reduce the cost of ageing. On the contrary. Because of the first phase you have realized and with which you have probably satisfied your constituents, you have exploded the cost of ageing. The question is, of course, how will we pay for all this? I can imagine what socialist logic is in that respect. This morning I heard Mr Laaouej say that we should borrow money, that the problem will be solved or better yet that there is no problem. So you can fit a sleeve on it, but that actually pulls the sleeve of those who work and pay taxes. You don't solve the problem; you just shift it. For the sake of convenience, screen with the miracle solution, an efficacy level of 80 %. That's what the coalition agreement says. However, I have not yet seen anything of this in the government either. Perhaps you should also ask your fellow Minister for Work about this. My time's almost up, I see. I have one more question, the only question that matters to us, to our children and grandchildren: why haven't measures been taken to strengthen the financial viability of the pension system in the longer term? Can we expect that next year? In other words, Madam Secretary, will you take care of the money from our pension? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u4	Madam President, Madam Minister, the first sentence of your note is one that can count. You are talking about the further implementation of the pension reform. What pension reform? We have not yet seen anything of the promised major pension reform for autumn 2021. You repeat the principles previously laid down in the coalition agreement. There's nothing new under the sun. But also with regard to financial and social sustainability, the government is looking at what it can do. With three former ministers of pensions in the government and you as the minister of pensions, there must be a huge knowledge on board the Vivaldi ship. For phase 1, the increase in pensions, the money has been spent. Phases 2 and 3 are a major reform that you can take off in some rules. That makes us think the worst. So there is no plan, and that is particularly poignant. As far as supplementary pensions are concerned, we now know, on the basis of a critical report by the Court of Auditors, that this is largely beyond the intended objective, because it is mainly accessible to those who deserve more. It is therefore not a solution for low pensions. You're transferring this case to the social partners. Madam Minister, it is of course a good thing that you want to tackle equality between men and women. As far as pensions are concerned, you can do so by properly honoring certain periods which are typically women. Indeed, the current pension system is still based on the old household model. You will not be surprised that we encourage positive initiatives in this respect as a traditional family party. Madam Secretary, last year our party also set up a witch hunt for the IGO beneficiaries. There is certainly a need to tackle tax fraud, but it cannot be immediately sought from those over 80 who often find it difficult to make ends meet. The procedure for monitoring compliance with the conditions of residence of people with IGO is still inhumanely strict. A retired person should be able to enjoy his old age in peace. Today we are even much more flexible for the unemployed and wage-earners than for our own old people. I miss a number of things in your policy paper. Strong shoulders carry the biggest burdens. This should also be done in a society, including the highest civil servants' pensions. It is not even envisaged to touch civil servants' pensions. In the past this was also mentioned by the Pension Office. There is no or insufficient attention to the issue of pension calculation in the event of divorce. Many of the questions we receive show that the financial situation of women who divorce at a later age is problematic. Especially if these women have had a very long career as co-workers, the financial situation is problematic. The list of heavy-duty professions is also something that our party attaches great importance to. This year, too, there is no trace of this in your policy paper. However, you said in the press last year that this would be on the negotiating table sooner or later. What are you waiting for, Madam Secretary? You know our position in the meantime. It is impossible to pursue a heavy occupation until the age of 67. Madam Minister, the pension dossier is an excellent example of the Belgian disease. A lack of political courage and vision have led to an ageing population reaching these and future generations as a budgetary crumb. Those who have worked for years and contributed to our prosperity should be able to enjoy old age without thought, but we note that, unfortunately, this is often not the case. Madam Secretary, as far as your pension reform is concerned, we are waiting for Godot. Your ambition last year was very great. Did you underestimate the file? Don't you find partners in the government? Or does it continue to study, discuss, evaluate again? Madam Minister, the studies exist, so do the solutions, but you keep messing around a bit and you leave behind to keep earlier promises. That is deeply regrettable. Madam Minister, despite the fact that your federal poverty plan sounds very ambitious, I cannot get rid of the impression that this government is fighting symptom rather than addressing the fundamental causes of poverty. Convince your federal colleagues. For example, extract the VAT from the energy bill or bring it to 6 %. Get all kinds of extra costs and taxes from this invoice. Such measures could be of financial interest to the most vulnerable of us. For tackling the fight against poverty and inequality, please refer to your fourth federal plan. You say that measures must be taken, but what measures are they? You mention the points of pain, but you do not put any concrete measures in place. Working with poverty organisations is more like shifting responsibility, but more structural measures, measures for child poverty and single parent families need to be taken. What I miss most are measures for our poor elderly. Madam Minister, many resources disappear in the operation of dozens of non-profit organisations that you subsidise, and which are often unclear as to the effective impact of their work on combating structural poverty. We would like to see the impact of all subsidies reviewed. You are also aware of our concern about subsidies for social projects in the fight against poverty. It is striking that Flanders often falls off the boat, it seems as if there would be no poverty in Flanders. Crisis measures such as homeless care and food banks are obviously needed. It is also hallucinating that the demand for food aid reached its peak in March 2021, when we were already in relance. It remains unworthy of our society to count so many vulnerable. Unfortunately, this demonstrates the inefficiency of current poverty policies. As regards people with disabilities, you say that your policy will be governed by the 145 points of the Federal Disability Action Plan that you have drawn up and which has been unanimously approved. I insist that it is a pity that this report was not discussed separately in committee, because it cannot be summarized in two words. Many of the problems included are quite right, but their impact and, above all, their follow-up are a different pair of sleeves. Many cases are referred to other ministers or secretaries of state. In many cases, therefore, there are different policy actors involved, but no coordination of the follow-up is foreseen. In the end, everyone and therefore no one is the ultimate responsibility. Moreover, you do not have the means to call your colleagues to order in the implementation of the measures. The Minister of Civil Service will ensure inclusion. That won't be difficult, but should I remind you how many people with disabilities work in your own cabinet? None, no one. You want to let your plan live on the inter-federal level, you're going to develop strategies and make plans. That's all fantastic, but there's barely anything moving. The result of your policy is fair enough to say that the same applies to your predecessor's policy too: only 1.22% of employees in the federal government are people with disabilities. Five people with disabilities work in all ministerial cabinets, five out of 648 employed. That's less than 1%. The main drivers of the government's social inclusion policy have a total of zero people with disabilities. You are committed, for example, to the accessibility of buildings, rail, public services and digital access, which is not easy for everyone. Money is mainly provided for project calls and so the subsidy mill is running full, but engagements alone are not enough. Good intentions alone are not enough. Good intentions alone don't work. The problem is that you need to call on all your colleagues to achieve the implementation of your commitments. You know, like us, that this is difficult and that it will be the bottleneck for the success or failure of your plans. My party will continue to stalk you to see your commitments accomplished. There are many people with disabilities and they deserve all the special attention and support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your interventions. As far as pensions are concerned, to claim that nothing is provided for in the budget for pensions is to have read it incorrectly. As you said, Mr Van der Donckt, the first phase of pension reform has been completed. This was one of the most important. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u6	Maybe you don't like it. But ensuring that our pensioners can live in dignity is important to the government. It was therefore important that this government should release €1.2 billion – the Budget Minister is sitting next to me – which still represents a huge amount of money, so that the minimum pension in this country will finally reach €1,500 net per month. It was fundamental! If you feel that a senior who has worked his whole life does not deserve to live with dignity, to be able to continue to have leisure, to be able to continue to care properly, it is your political choice!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u7	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u8	Madam President, I have always worked with respect. Some who are not members of the Social Affairs Committee are used to working with less respect. I have not interrupted the Members, as I never do in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u9	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u10	I'm not going to interrupt my speech, Mr. Franken. Like you, I have the right to speak and I will continue to do so, just as I will continue to say, do not displease you, what this government is doing for pensioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u11	Madam President, I think it is important to repeat what the Minister is trying to insinuate here. An intention process has already been carried out here by Mr Vanden Burre and Mr Laaouej. It is the same thing here all the time, where we, as a group, want to blame ourselves for things like we want to set up the employers, the Flemings against Walen, that we enjoy throwing people into poverty. Madam Secretary, you're recreating an intention process of our party's pension plans. You say that you are raising pensions and making sure that people who have worked their whole lives receive a pension in a fair way. We, the N-VA, wouldn't want that. Where do you get that, Madam Secretary? On the basis of what information do you think we are a party that does not want to guarantee a decent pension for people who have worked their whole lives? Why don't you stop doing these intent trials? It's the same thing over and over again. You are champions over and over again insinuating things that we have not said at all. I have heard my colleague very clearly here. Has he insinuated that we don't want to give decent pensions to people who have worked their whole lives? That our party, the largest party in this country Flemings, Walen, Brusselsers, peu imports, who have worked their whole lives do not want to give a decent and fair pension? Where do you get that? Where do you get that information? What gives you the right, Mrs Lalieux, who has not yet performed anything as Minister of Pensions, to constantly raise that moral finger at us? Where do you get that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u12	Madam President, I was not answering Mr Franken. I think there's freedom of speech here. I'm just saying what the government has invested and what the previous government has not invested: $1.2 billion in pensions, especially in the minimum pension, but also so that our pensioners can live with dignity and pay for their health care. In fact, we are also reinvesting in health care when there was a disinvestment under the previous legislature. In addition, in order to maintain the balance in our pensions and the principle of our pensions, we are also increasing the ceiling for all our workers. I welcome and I believe that this government is pleased that 700,000 people will see their pensions increase. This is also the fight against poverty and the dignity of our seniors. This phase A1 is carried out. On the other hand, I think we also need to stop fake news. I heard it. I have ears. I like to think I still understand what I'm being told. There is no access to the minimum pension after ten years. It takes 30 years to get access to the minimum pension. What I'm going to tell you is that it's out of the question of touching on similar periods because we know that similar periods are mostly affecting women. When similar periods and careers are called into question, access to the minimum pension for women is called into question. You know that the proposals that have been on the table mean that almost 70 per cent of women would be excluded from the minimum pension. It's not our choice! Our choice is to get everyone to work. Our choice is to increase the employment rate. Our choice is to have quality jobs with social security contributions to enable our social security to be properly funded. That is the choice of this government and we will continue that way. If we talk about financial sustainability, we know how we can do it. It is by paying social contributions, creating quality jobs, increasing the employment rate. We're working with Minister Pierre-Yves Dermagne. This is how we finance, but it is not by reducing pensions for pensioners. It's not by restricting their rights. That's not how we're going to work. We're going to work in financial and social sustainability. Which you also forget because I didn't hear the social sustainability of you. I just heard the financial sustainability. Tomorrow's pensions must be guaranteed. We will indeed guarantee them. But if you tell me that there are too many pensioners in Belgium... indeed, the cost of pensions increases. When you go from 2.2 million pensioners in 2022 to 3 million in 2040, what do you want? Do you want the cost of pensions to decrease? Do you really want pensions to be cheaper? Do you really want to touch pensioners? We don't! On the other hand, we will ensure that there is financial sustainability of our system. We will do that! But not by touching on the dignity and rights of our pensioners. Indeed, pension reform is not yet on the table, at least Phase 2 and Phase 3 since the first phase has been completed. It's true that we're working on it. And I'll reassure you: we work with partners every day. Employers spoke. I've seen a lot of other actors who haven't spoken, but we're working. We also work with the entire government, bilaterally, with all prime ministers. We will continue to work. I assure you, Mr Van der Donckt, very soon Parliament will also be able to work on this pension reform. Mrs Samyn, as far as pensions are concerned, you have talked about the problem of the control of persons benefiting from GRAPA. You know very well that we have already achieved a part by ensuring that people over the age of 80 are no longer controlled, as well as people with reduced mobility. In addition, the factors must no longer ring at doors. This was in fact not proportional to the control of people. I'll remind you who the grapists are? Grapists account for 50% of people who have worked for 20 years to have an average of 300 euros per month. Forty per cent of them are self-employed and 65 per cent are women. It is believed that these people in our society have the right to live in dignity. But dignity also means proportionate controls. We are working on it to restore a minimum of freedoms to these people. Mrs Samyn, I can also hear you on the issue of assisting spouses and foster parents. We are also working with my colleague David Clarinval. With regard to the fight against poverty, the federal poverty plan will be on your table in the first quarter of 2022. You talked about the price of energy and we got 16 million in this budget to power the gas and electricity fund at the level of the CPAS. We have almost doubled this fund, which is used to support people to avoid over-indebtedness. A person who has difficulty paying bills can contact the CPAS. Debt mediation and this gas and electricity fund are used for three-quarters by citizens who are not in the CPAS. I would also point out that the social rate has been extended to a million families and that we have given a premium of 80 euros. Is that enough? We will see how the price of energy will change. We will be careful that people don't get over debt because of energy prices. Mrs Samyn, we have given a lot of short-term aid in the context of the covid crisis. But we are working on structural issues. You talked about food aid and this government has never done so much in this area. Today, and I thank the federated entities for the funds they provide, there is €27 million for food aid. The fact that this increases does not make me happy because it means that there are more people in need. We must work to eradicate this poverty. But as long as there are needs, we're working with associations and CPAS to get people to eat from their hunger. With regard to persons with disabilities, this is the first time in this country that we have a cross-cutting federal plan that concerns all ministers. I would also like to thank all my colleagues in the government who have committed themselves in their jurisdictions and budgets to concrete measures to make our society more inclusive. Belgium is a very bad student in this context. I thank them for this because we are moving forward. To say that we did nothing when, at the end of the legislature, the income replacement allowance increased by 20% is not correct. We have eliminated the price of love: when you live with someone, your integration allowances will no longer be reduced. We have almost removed the price of labor: when you work, you will no longer be punished. We lowered the replacement allowance to 18 years of age, as requested by the Constitutional Court. Monday, I had a CIM with all the federated entities to work on an inter-federal plan. The CIM Handicap had not met for more than eight years. I think there is a will in all the governments of this country to work towards a more inclusive society. That there is still a lot of work, I completely agree with you. I am sweeping in front of my door, because there are still a lot of them in federal employment. You're right. But I hope to be able to count on Parliament to continue working towards a more inclusive society. In any case, it is also a will of our government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u13	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. I am happy to hear you say that you are working on it, and I hope that you will also effectively implement the mentioned plans. To come back to the Federal Disability Action Plan: I did not say that nothing happened or that the government would not do anything about it. I just said this plan needs follow-up. You are very ambitious with those 145 points. There's a lot of good stuff in there. The plan has been approved in committee and we encourage it. However, there must also be follow-up and coordination, and they are currently lacking. So I hope you will follow this up, because we certainly did not say that nothing has happened in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u14	Madam Minister, first of all, I fully support Mr Francken's intervention. He does express himself in a different way than I do, but in substance we say the same thing. I have, by the way, particularly blamed you in committee for putting our party on the spot as a hard party. I tried to explain to you at that time, but you may not have listened very carefully to what you said, namely that this is absolutely not the case. I then tried to explain to you that our pension system should actually be a child of concern to this government. Why? Until recently, our pension system has continued to function well, but it is currently in severe weather. This is because we work with a partition system: the people who work and contribute today pay the pensions of the people who are retired today. This means that the people who can work today, but not contribute, are of course also entitled to a pension, but that their pension is also paid by the people who work today. In order to maintain that system, a balance is needed between the principle of solidarity, which you have heard very well, and the principle of insurance, i.e. contributions. If that creates an imbalance, the whole system will collapse. The first victims of this imbalance will be the people who need to rely on this solidarity, the people who have a low pension. That can be because of circumstances; it is not always their fault, people can have bad luck in their careers. You must pay attention to this, and you must also pay attention to the people who work. What are you doing in your big pension reform? In your first phase, you have merely put the emphasis on solidarity and not on the people who have to contribute, because otherwise this solidarity will fall into its pocket and the whole pension system will be ruined. How can you do that, Madam Secretary? It's not just pay for work, it's retirement to work. People who work hard today are entitled to a good pension. That must be your starting point. If people can be sure that they will have a good pension if they have worked their whole lives, they are prepared to show solidarity with the people who have had a hard time. Because of our repartition system and because of the baby boomers who are now all retiring, there has been an imbalance. That's right. How can you fix that? By getting more people to work. That's what the coalition agreement says, but it doesn't. On the contrary, you only focus on solidarity, but in the long run the money is gone. I know that it is not a problem for the socialists when they run out of money, when they are going to borrow, but then you are going to have to go back to the people who work, because they will have to pay for it and not the people who make use of that solidarity. Those are official figures you don't like to hear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u15	Mr Van der Donkt, may I ask you to conclude? Everyone has the right to speak, but we have rules. You have already had ten minutes and two more minutes. Not everyone agrees with your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u16	Madam President, the Minister has been given a great deal of speaking time. Then I didn't see the clock ticking. Take a look at the 'pension greenhouses' for the self-employed. They don't have any financial problems and they're breaking up. This is because a self-employed person who is building up a 40-year pension also actually contributes 40 years or 39 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u17	Mr. Laaouej, Mr. Van der Donckt has been talking for almost five minutes. I made the point. I understand that everyone wants to intervene, but the agreement was ten minutes, with a two-minute reply. That sounds normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u18	This is not the first time I must deplore the anti-socialist obsession of the N-VA. I just heard you say, "You socialists, anyway, when there's no more money, it's no big deal, we're going to borrow." Two small elements of history. One very recent, and the other a little older. In the 1990s, for those who are somewhat familiar with the history of our public finances, unfortunately, because of the years of lead in the 1980s, we had exceeded the record figure of more than 135 % of debt in relation to GDP. And then there was the Dehaene-Di Rupo government, and we managed, with a lot of effort, and good management, to bring the debt rate down to 85%, and even to 83%. To begin to say that there is a taste for debt in the leader of the Socialist Party, first of all, it is not to be aware of the figures and the history of public finances in our country; but it is above all, at the same time, this kind of tendency that you systematically, on the part of the N-VA, want to be not in the parliamentary debate and the political debate, but in the caricature, in the fake news and in the free offense. First element. Secondly, should I remind you of the various reports of the National Bank on the tax shift of the previous government? You had the finance portfolio, and you brought a so-called €9 billion tax shift, which was not financed to the tune of €6 billion. It was said by the National Bank. And you come here to teach me lessons in good governance of public finances? To others, Mr. Van der Donckt! [[To others!]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u19	We have been told all day that we are against decent pensions and low pensions. That's fake news. That's the story the socialists have been telling here all day. When you say time and time again that the tax shift was not financed, thanks to the tax shift more money went from government to citizen rather than vice versa. I'm proud of that unfunded tax shift. This means that the tax has fallen. You're right: it wasn't a tax shift, it was a tax relief. As a socialist, you translate that as if it were not funded, but society has received more back than we have taken away. That's the big difference from what the government's doing right now. Madam Secretary, you are coming up with your plans soon, part two and part three, you say, and you haven't stuck a date on that. Anyway, you were one of the few who read the coalition agreement correctly, because you submitted your plan on 1 September, as stated in the coalition agreement. The plan wasn't neat, but the timing was neat. Your partners immediately threw that in the trash can. In the meantime, the Prime Minister had said that this would be done in the autumn. It can't be much more "after-year" than it is today. Actually, the plan has to be there. You're way too late. It was supposed to be knocked off in the government in September. It won't be before this fall. It is not even mentioned in the budget. If you stick to the budget, you will have no room to carry out a pension reform. When's the plan due? I would like to have a fairly concrete answer. Soon it will be very vague.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u20	Let's go back to your so-called tax shift, Mr. De Roover. You'd have lowered the tax burden and you'd be happy about it. Of the $9 billion, there were 3 billion PPI reductions offset by increases in consumption taxes. You've given a little on one side, but you've mostly taken the equivalent in people's pockets by moving from a progressive tax to a regressive tax. First element. Second element: what was the rest of the tax shift? Reductions in social contributions. What do social contributions finance? Social protection. We certainly have a divergence of views here, and I am glad to hear that. For us, social contributions finance social protections which are one of the other elements of the employment contract. The employment contract is work for pay and social protection. By doing what you have done, you have defunded social protections and you have impoverished the workers of Belgium. When you tell us that you've reduced the tax burden on people, that's not true. You've cut funding for people's social protections. That's what you did with your tax shift. That's why you're in a bad position to do the lesson.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u21	Apart from the answer that the Minister will be replying shortly, I would like to make the following point. Mr Laaouej, that is indeed correct. That's the difference between us. You think decency can only be achieved when the money flows to the government and the government can determine who that money goes back to. We are in favour of cutting back on public property. After all, we believe in the free enterprise of companies, citizens and everyone who is active. That is a difference you have brought to your attention. In that respect, I fully agree with you, I do not think that the government is always necessary to achieve a proper distribution of resources. I think our own efforts should count. That's the difference between our vision and yours. Of course, my question to the Minister remains.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u22	Mr De Roover, we understand that you want to reduce social protections, pensions, replacement income, unemployment benefits, social benefits. We understand! At least that way, things are clear. And we are, of course, not in agreement on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u23	If you translate that as protection social, then of course that's your way of spreading fake news. I'm talking about the freedom of people to have their income freely, when you think the government is needed to patronize people and distribute money. We do not agree with that. That you translate that as protection social fits in with your propagandistic talk, but I'll leave that on your account. It's not about protecting, it's about patronizing and taking money.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u24	Colleagues, we are now moving on to the issue that falls within the purview of Defence Minister Dedonder.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u25	Madam President, I am speaking on the subject of defence, if I have understood correctly. That's very important. I do not have much to add to the issue of pensions. The fact that Mr Di Rupo is really trying to get the figures right is true. That's what his reputation was. Mr Di Rupo was indeed very strict on the figures. By the way, he is still trying to do that as a Walloon Prime Minister, but he can't do that anymore. It's dramatic. The Walloon budget is really dramatic and he knows it. But what should he do after the floods? He can't leave those people to their fate. That is not what this is about. Madam Minister, first of all, I must apologize to Mr Buysrogge, the chairman of the Landsverdending Committee, for his question. In St Niklaas the budget debate is on the agenda and he is a financial vessel. So he really couldn't be there, otherwise he would have been there. In any case, we are trying together to shape the opposition and listen carefully when it comes to defence. Madam Secretary, we are living in a frightening time. There are many problems in Belarus and Ukraine. There was a NATO Council today and a Transatlantic Council, which I probably haven't received a report on yet, unlike you. So it all doesn't look good. It's very hard between the West and Russia. Ukraine is partly the playing field. However, it is about more. I have always believed that the blackmail that Lukashenko is blackmailing in Belarus with the migrants - un train qui cache un autre..................................................................................................................................................................................... Moreover, we are faced with difficult situations in the Sahel region. We can't get a hold of Boko Haram. We can't get a hold of Al-Qaeda in the Maghreb. We can't get a grip on the ISIS. We are faced with a very annoying situation in Afghanistan. You didn't cause that situation. I'm just trying to outline the geopolitical context. You have nothing to do with that. I wrote a book about it, and I spent a year doing it. It's not about the Belgian government. I'm not blaming you for anything either. We just need to think about what we really want and how we do things best. We've been able to do that exercise with you on the National Defense Commission a few times, and I'm grateful for that. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, we've pulled our tails between our legs. That was a failure for the West, the Western thinking and the ambition to export our way of life to a number of countries in Central Asia, in Africa and in the Middle East. There is the situation in Tunisia, which has been completely transformed into a dictatorship since 25 July 2021. The man who was democratically elected has abolished Chamber and Senate. We have now lost the last stronghold of democracy in North Africa and the Arab world. There is no longer any country in North Africa and the Middle East with a government that is democratically based on open and free elections. That is very sad to see. We live in a frightening time, Madam Secretary. You have a crucial function. You are less visible than many other ministers. Mr Vandenbroucke is in the news every day, but you are actually in a crucial position for the future together with Mrs Wilmès. That doesn't just apply to our country, of course. The fact is that this country is a diplomatic hub, one of the founding fathers of NATO and of the European Union. We are one of the founders of Western thought and we are all proud of that. You, I, socialist, nationalist, communist, it doesn't matter, I think we're all proud of that. You yourself have had a difficult year, Madam Secretary. There's the story of the C-130. He made his last flight and the last C-130 is now in a meadow in Beauvechain. That could have been better; I have a different opinion; he would have stayed with us in Melsbroek, where it had been stationed for 30 years. No, you thought Beauvechain was a better option, and now he's standing in a meadow. You should check it out. It's for crying. The appointment of the director of the WHI was also a sad affair. With Jürgen Conings, Defense didn't have its best moment last summer, not to mention General Boucké's strange resignation. In addition, it is still not clear how the fork is in the stem. I think I know, but I won't say another word about it. Cela passe. Those weren't your best days. But you have recaptured yourself over the last few months, with which I can certainly contradict the statement by the Laaouej 'il y a une obsession antisocialiste de la N-VA'. Indeed, you raised EUR 33 million in the budget negotiations. I thought, quite frankly, that you would never succeed, because the PS would not support you in that. But you did it, didn't you? I think you should be very grateful to your Deputy Prime Minister. 33 million is a lot of money. You will invest that in the POP personnel plan, People Are Priority, to increase wages in the Defense Department. We support that; we support it. We also said this in committee. The question is, of course, what now? The Dutch government agreement does not add 333 million euros, but 500 million next year, 1.9 billion in 2023, 4.1 billion in 2024, and 4.2 billion in 2025. We need extra money for defense. All European Member States invest in addition. Belgium must not be left behind, we are already the worst student, together with Luxembourg, which is not really a defence country. We house NATO and SHAPE in Casteau, so both the political, diplomatic and military operating quarters of NATO, and we are such a poor student in the classroom. Well, that's not really fair. There must be additional investment, and I hope that you will be on the table in the coming years. You have our support. We have tabled an amendment on this. Apart from the money issues, three major dossiers remain to be resolved. Firstly, there is the discussion about what to do with a European army versus NATO. I have asked you a number of questions about this. The official position of the Belgian Government would be that the European army could be involved without the explicit approval of the Belgian Government. If the European Commission decides to deploy 5,000 soldiers gathered in some sort of European pooling and sharing, it is not necessary to take a decision by consensus, but it is sufficient to take a majority decision. I would like a very clear answer to that. If, for example, we provide Belgian soldiers with pooling and sharing for the European forces of 5,000 soldiers, should Belgium agree to use them, for example, in Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya or the Sahel region? The N-VA thinks so. They're our boys. They're our girls. It's our lives. It is the Belgian Government and Parliament who have to decide on this. That is a very fundamental matter. Is it true that the Belgian Government is abandoning it and leaving the consensus rule to opt for the majority rule? That could be used against us someday, just to be clear. Sometimes for but also sometimes against. That's always the downside. That's a trade-off you have to make. Secondly, Madam Minister, can you give an up-to-date outline of the situation in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u26	Mr. Franken, I'm trying to understand. Is there a budget discussion or a policy discussion? You will be able to link your remarks to budget items each time, perhaps, but no one is fooled. You are not in the budget debate. Fortunately, we are free to speak, but if we spend hours here working on the budget on the basis of the thematic discussions, it seems to me useful to recall that we are in a budgetary debate as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u27	I understand that, Mr Laaouej. I have always learned that a general budget debate could be about anything, and I am sitting here longer than you, I think, but okay. Is there a budgetary link? Oh, yeah. European Defence is a post in your Minister's budget, you probably know that, or perhaps not. It is therefore a legitimate question about the budget. If that budget is used to deploy our troops for a European force, then who will decide on the deployment of those military forces? That's a logical question, isn't it? If you were in the opposition, and I was sitting here, in her place, you'd ask the same thing. It is de facto about who decides on our military lives. Personally, that seems to me to be a correct question. Anyway, everyone's appreciation, all respect for yours. My second question, Madam Minister, is certainly about a very operational issue. I questioned Mr Vanden Burre about it, but I did not receive an answer: it still needs to be looked at, he said. The man is always very strong and Green is always very clear about her views, except when it comes to Mali; then it is more of a one-way story, as with the CD&V. But my question is very clear and it is a budgetary question, Mr Laaouej, so don't worry and don't worry. There's 12 million euros in your operational budget for Mali. Quite specifically, Madam Secretary, have you already instructed your general staff to prepare the operation in Mali, Takuba, for deployment in 2022? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u28	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as the previous speaker said, it has been a very moving year in your policy area. It's the least we can say. I am not going to repeat the whole list, but we have had our work on your committee. There was the geopolitical situation, including Afghanistan, to mention one example, and a number of domestic challenges, such as corona aid, flood relief and so on. I want to talk as little as possible about the past, but I want to talk about the future, which is so important to our defence apparatus, to put it in an understatement. I would like to return to your detailed presentation in committee, where you answered our numerous questions about your policy paper. Nevertheless, I have to say again here that statement remained shrouded in an aura of vagueness. There was some kind of future music around it. First of all, there is still no strategic vision. You're being laconical about that, but you are. You promised to propose a strategic vision by the end of this year, but that will not happen until the beginning of next year. This will, of course, make it difficult to maintain a solid opposition, because the framework within which your policy is framed is still not clearly defined. However, we can say that you have cherished great budgetary ambitions. We can, of course, welcome that, especially in the policy area of Defence. However, the question remains at this point where exactly you will get the money. This question remains consistently unanswered, including in committee. You are talking about numerous investments in a historic wager and pension increase at last, we shall say: in equipment and infrastructure, including the barracks of the future; in cyber capacity, which is of course not an unnecessary luxury these days when we look at last week's cyberattack in Defense. There will also be a real Cyber component. There are all kinds of climate renovations, CO2 neutral systems, and so on. All this should mainly come from the means of operation, you say, without touching the operations, training or equipment. It almost seems too good to be true. When this appears to be the case, experience teaches us that is usually the case. You yourself say that you will participate in the savings exercise and that the linear savings will increase, which is in the budgets, to EUR 100 million in 2023. In answer to all the questions we have already asked, you are not really getting any concrete answers. What exactly are you going to save on operating equipment? You replied in committee that at the beginning of next year, during the next budgetary control, you will analyse the areas in which these savings are best met. However, we are still hungry in this area at the moment. So you make all kinds of ambitious promises, but you don't really know how to finance them yet. You do not say to touch training, equipment or operations, but you cannot and cannot invest in virtually anything or anywhere else seriously prune. You and the government have already indicated that savings will follow, that the budget will be skimmed over the next few years. Your budgetary plans are still very similar to budgetary hocus pocus. You must forgive me for repeating that again here today. In conclusion, it seems to us very difficult or even bizarre to create a separate Cyber component with separate staff, as you yourself pointed out in committee, because the remuneration of those people will have to be much higher than that of the average military, in order to be compared with those ICT profiles in the bourgeoisie. You're gonna be manning that cyber capability with those people. We are very sceptical about this, but we hope, of course, to be wrong. For us, therefore, we need to invest in equipment, in personnel, in operations, in training and in infrastructure. This must be done without touching the balance that is so necessary. I'm joining the personnel policy myself. The planned increase in recruitment is relatively good at the moment. But the question remains as to how you will combat staff turnover. You are taking a number of initiatives to make the profession more attractive for young people, but the shortage of staff is still very acute not only in the case of influx but also in the case of outfluxes, especially among young people who are enthusiastic about enlisting, but who often disappear as quickly as possible. We really must avoid that in the future. I hope that you will really pay attention to this problem and try to avoid it. What we must also be careful about is that we do not put quantity above quality. That is what I said to you at the beginning of this legislature. You have, in our view, taken a number of lat-lowering measures. We absolutely want to avoid it. Again, you are taking a number of initiatives, on internal promotion, on the facilitation of recruitment, and so on. It's not because we're so looking for people that we need to lower the bar. I would like to stress this once again. That would be detrimental to the performance of our forces. Your POP plan has already been cited but remains in a flou atmosphere for the time being. Its impact should only be implemented in the following years. We look forward to this with great attention. What is currently seriously frustrating the military is that new software system for the payout of the betting. I do not have to tell you, it has already been mentioned in committee. It is unbelievable that this problem has not yet been resolved. Higher bets are good, but of course you must also ensure an efficient means of making payments. The meal cheques also remain floating in a kind of vacuum and have not yet been specifically promised. The regulatory framework for this would be in full development at the moment, but it may take a long time for it to be in order. For the time being, therefore, this will remain a policy of announcement. I'd also like to discuss the operations. I have the honour to chair the follow-up committee and it became clear at the last meeting that at the moment only 185 of our 25,000 soldiers are in operation, a particularly low number. We must make an urgent effort to do so, because operations are of course also an appeal to young recruits to join our defence. We therefore look forward to the planning of the operational framework. Again, we must say that we are looking at your focus on black Africa and the Sahel with suspicion. We agree with Mr Francken that Mali can really be called the Afghanistan of the Sahel. That's not an exaggeration. We must be afraid of risking the resources and lives of our military there again, even if that is inherent in the military profession. We must ensure that results are achieved on the ground. At the moment we have no review framework and no exit strategy, so there is still a lot of work to be done. We believe that it makes sense to look at the area where our foreign commitment can be reoriented, possibly towards areas closer to home, such as the defence at some points at the EU's external borders. In committee, we have discussed many aspects of the policy and it is impossible to repeat them all here. At the moment, your policy gives the impression of a wish list of Christmas gifts to come and whose price tag has not yet been calculated. Good intentions for the new year are always beautiful, but experience has shown us that few good intentions are translated into reality. I hope that we will see a change in that in the short term. Together with my colleague Creyelman, I will continue to follow the policy of the committee closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for all your speeches, despite the late hour. You talked about good intentions. I have to say that I prefer to have good intentions and intentions rather than not to have one at all. As soon as I took up my duties, I knew that, given the budget cuts that Defence had experienced over a series of years, we were going to have to face a challenge, and that we should all work together to rebuild this department. There is indeed work to be done. We knew it! But I can't accept the announcement effects. Indeed, in a year, we have already made good progress. You know that in terms of personnel, the POP plan is anything but abstract. It is quite concrete with measures that were decided upon in the previous conclave. You talked about food checks. This is a file that is not abandoned, which is still on the table. There is also the improvement of well-being at work. In practical terms, units have already been displaced, taking into account the place of residence of the military. So we are acting very concretely in record time. Of course, there's still work, and that's why I'm here. The quality of recruitment is always essential. But you don't have to mix everything. When we promote social promotion within a department, it is not to the detriment of quality, it is to enable us to have prospects for the future and therefore to fight against the attrition to which you referred. Indeed, in recent years there has been a fairly large percentage of attritions. The personnel plan and the POP plan are there to address this. Wage recovery, well-being at work, improvement of the living environment, career prospects are examples of this, and this is something that needs to be carefully monitored. The year 2021 went extremely well in terms of recruitment, as we had nearly 8,300 candidates for 2,500 military positions to fill. And these 2,500 vacancies were filled on time and in time. We reopened a second page in 2022 with the possibility for young people to engage as military, civilian or reservists in Defence. You know that I have made it a priority because, simply, staff is the engine of an organization and without staff, we cannot rebuild much. I will now turn to operations. The Global Plan of Operations 2021 was proposed to Parliament and approved by the Government on 10 December 2021. As regards our possible commitment to Task Force Takuba, I have already indicated that a detailed analysis is still under way with the Defence Staff. Such analysis may, where appropriate, be the subject of the submission of a specific dossier to be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval at the appropriate time. The possible commitment will also be discussed in Parliament in the first quarter of 2022. If the commitment takes place, of course, parliamentary control can also take place within the established committee for the follow-up of foreign missions. During the briefing you received in committee, it was stated that we will closely monitor the evolution of certain parameters in the field, both in terms of security and in terms of political developments, in order to make the right decisions at the right time for gradual construction. Moreover, the possible participation is already included in the budget for operations in 2022, which was explained in general terms on 17 November. Of the net operating budget of EUR 72 million, some EUR 12 million has now been allocated. The budget for 2022 shall be an estimate of the amounts that may be used in the financial year. I must therefore provide for the necessary appropriations to cover certain expenditures, even though they are not yet 100% sure. This also applies to other expenditure, not just expenditure related to Takuba. The amendment that has been tabled would result in the programme for operations being underbudgeted, which is unacceptable. Mr Franken, allow me a little comment. I note that in your amendment you propose to reduce the budget allocated to operations and not even to transfer the possible budget from Takuba to another operation. No, you propose to reduce the operating budget and transfer it to another area. Excuse me, but if I understood correctly, it was you who, when I came to head of this department, accused me, without any evidence, of not giving priority to operations and not taking into account this need for our military to be deployed to theatres of operations. What a change of course today! I'm reading it to you as I feel it, and I admit I'm getting a little lost in this contradiction. As far as savings are concerned, I have already answered. The implementation of this year's budget has an impact on the budgets for 2022 and 2023. The Defence budget is the translation of a coherent plan. Therefore, in the next budgetary control, I will analyse the areas in which these savings can best be met, without, however, having an impact on current operations and investment programmes. Meanwhile, the Defence Staff are working on this exercise, which they will continue until budgetary control. The initiatives that have been and are being taken in the field of staff will be taken into account. The associated costs will remain covered because the women and men of Defense are at the heart of my policy. On 15 January 2021, the government approved the NATO Strategic Level Report 2021 and the Halt Any Decline principle. This has indicated a first direction to map out a growth path by 2030 and to re-establish our defence efforts with those of the European non-nuclear NATO alliance members, as provided for in the coalition agreement. In other words, respecting the Halt any Decline principle means that defence efforts in a given year should not be lower than the year before. In concrete terms, this means that for the years 2024 and 2025 resources will be added to the Defence budget, which is possible during budgetary control. In this way, we can keep our promises to NATO. With regard to the relationship between NATO and the European Union, I have already had the opportunity to discuss it often. We need to see each other. One reinforces the other. The strategic compass on which we are working at European Union level is under discussion, but the work is progressing well. It is obviously premature to decide on the method of decision-making. In any event, the European treaties are clear, the Council may entrust the implementation of a mission using military means to a group of Member States which so wish and which have the capabilities. This is Article 44 of the Treaty on European Union. Member States must therefore be voluntary in order to carry out the mission. This remains a sovereign decision of the government anyway. I think I have answered all your questions, but do not hesitate to tell me if that is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u30	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. You are the only minister who has read our amendments. I think that is a victory in itself, and I look forward to that. What you're saying is interesting. You say that I have tabled an amendment calling for the EUR 12 million for the Takuba operation to be deleted, for it to be removed from operations and moved elsewhere. Your head of the cabinet probably read it, but I'm not gonna put it anywhere else. I'm putting that in general defense resources, so that's still resources within the Defense Department. I've been thinking a lot about that and I've been discussing it with staff. How do we do that best? Since we have no ambition in the field of operations, what operation could we give that to? There's barely 150 men in surgery right now. Where can we send the 12 million euros? I thought there was nothing on your shelf at all, your operational plan is minimalist, so there's not something right away. I said then to reinvest it in the general budget of the Defense Department. That can then go to another operation later in the course of budgetary control. Our point remains fundamental. I have just quoted from De Schildwacht, the magazine of the largest union of the defence apparatus, and I would like to repeat that quote. The greatest trade union leader in the Defense Department is certainly not bad for you, because he has given me a big sneak about the top plan and called me a palate, but now he is not quite on your line. He says, and I quote: 'In other words, the political objectives of stabilising the Sahel region and creating the conditions for the administrative and social reconstruction of Mali are completely unrealistic in the military field. This mission is military insanity. It is the chronicle of an announced failure, just like Afghanistan." This government is considering and writing down a budget of 12 million euros to put our boys and girls in that wasp's nest. I don't support it. I'm not the guy who says we shouldn't go to surgery. I'm not gonna preach peace here every day. I am in favour of peace, just to be clear. World peace is better today than tomorrow for me. But I'm quite realistic in that respect. Mali would just be an unlikely mistake. [[I already have a few colleagues here, as Mr Verherstraeten said in the corridors, who need to be careful what they do.]] I really wouldn't do it. It's only gonna get worse. We started with two terrorist groups in Mali. How many are there now? Twelve. The French are there. All President Macron wants is to secure the presidential elections by sending fewer French troops and more European troops. After all, if 20 French people are killed in Mali tomorrow, he can put his second term as President on his stomach. That is France's geopolitical agenda. Watch that. Don't be naive about it. That's all I'm saying. As far as European defence is concerned, Madam Minister, you should know that there is currently a very large debate in the US Congress on a bill from a number of American MPs, including democrats, not just Republicans, under the motto Buy American. I was in the States a few weeks ago. In response to European defence, the United States is going to protect its industry and ensure that their investments in defence are only American. It shouldn't be Buy European, but it should be Buy NATO. We are on a completely wrong track there that we have organised ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u31	Madam President, I already wanted to speak earlier on the question of Operation Takuba by the Takuba Task Force. Mr Franken, I think you did not listen to us well in committee earlier. You said: "The Greens have no position on this. It's complicated." You yourself have shared a series of reticences about this operation. As I have said in committee, we also have reservations and a lot of questions. We are concerned about the context, which seems to us not to be favourable. We are concerned about the results of a mission, which we find uncertain. I'll say it again here. We therefore asked to have more information and to know the conditions under which we would enter this mission and how we would get out of it. We have asked for this debate. We know, and the minister has just said so, that an analysis is under way in Defence. It will be presented; a debate will therefore take place. This is the position of the Greens. We've already told you. The Minister recalled what was currently happening in the Defence and said that a debate would be held in this Parliament, either in the Committee on Monitoring Missions Abroad or in the Committee on Defence. There is therefore a debate and we also ask for clarification. You have the answer to the question of what is the position of the Greens on the subject. Don't try to make it look like there are no questions or questions on our part! There are some, and it will certainly be answered in the debate that the minister has promised us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u32	Thank you. I find it very interesting. I've followed that well, but I find it very strange, too. When it comes to the hunger strikers or the housing checks, your Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Gilkinet, places tweets with the hashtag nopasaran. Well, I'm waiting for a hashtag nopasaran about Mali. What elements do you need now? Read all the international reports. Read what the French are doing there. The general staff has a thousand pages of analysis on Mali and the Sahel. What more reports do you need? Hashtag nopasaran, Mr Vanden Burre, Mr De Vriendt. It's as simple as that, a tweet. Not a house check, although I thought it was a very good bill, because it belonged to Mr. Geens and myself. Hashtag nopasaran. Be clear. Les Verts sont clairs, but when it comes to Mali, they're not that clairs. Just tell me you don't want to. There's a lot of reticence. [[.]] I also have a lot of réticence, but I just say, "Mali, not on my watch." It's already a hornet's nest and it's only getting worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u33	Madam Secretary, I would like to reply briefly out of respect for you. It must be said that you answered all the questions in committee, whether we agree with you or not. Once again, you have tried to do the best you can here. As far as budgetary control is concerned, next year we will be able to test what you have done with your concrete plans for recruitment, combating attrition, the POP plan and other promises you have made. Our group also calls for the necessary attention to be paid to the operation plan. In my questions about your focus on both the Sahel and black Africa, I already indicated that you intend to send soldiers to Congo next year. I have the honour to be part of the Congo Commission with my colleague Ravyts, and I can tell you that they are not very happy with paternalism there. What you intend to do is indeed an example of this. I would therefore reserve the necessary reserves. As far as Mali is concerned, we have been doing a good job there for years, but as I said, there is a lack of a review framework for our foreign operations, an exit strategy. You didn't answer that. When did we achieve what we want to achieve? What do we want to achieve at all? There is absolutely no concrete vision of that within this majority, now just as much as before. I regret that. We absolutely need to step up our efforts and ensure that we can frame those operations in our overall vision. As far as Mali and Takuba are concerned, perhaps, to say disrespectfully, we are going to be the slipper carrier of France, which is retreating massively under pressure from public opinion. However, we are going to strengthen our commitment there as a kind of vassal state. My group is absolutely not in favour of this. With our other criticisms, too, I believe we have been very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u34	We turn to the thematic discussion that falls within the competence of Mrs Khattabi.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Khattabi, we have already had part of the discussion in committee. However, there are still a number of things that are not quite clear. A first ambiguity arises from discussions with Minister Van der Straeten in which she states that in one year the federal government has realized more than the Flemish government in fifteen years in terms of climate. When we went on to do so, it turned out that Mrs Van der Straeten meant "realisations" vague plans by 2030. It does not, for ease of reference, include the very concrete plans of the Flemish government. I wonder how you, as Minister for Climate Policy, look at Mrs Van der Straeten's statement. She has mentioned a number of measures which she believes will ensure that more has been achieved, although they are all things that still have to be done. It refers to commercial vehicles: 9 million tonnes by 2030. It refers to reduced emissions at bpost: 30 kilotons by 2030. It refers to 5 million tonnes that would come off the track and then refers to the 233 million tonnes package that you went to the government with. That is somewhat bizarre, because the first three measures, Madam Minister, are still involved in the 233 million tonnes. Can you confirm that the first three measures are complementary to those 233 million tonnes? Isn't that right? Otherwise, what Mrs van der Straeten said is not entirely correct. Then there's a rather solid double count, even in the vague ambitions. Madam Secretary, we have already debated the 233 million tonnes. During a previous session in plenary, we heard that you would deliver the roadmaps to Parliament. We have come back to that and you said in the discussion of your policy paper that you would provide a summary. I don't think the committee has already gotten that summary, but don't worry, I found them anyway. However, I have to say that there are very few concrete things in it. There is indeed a description of the measures and reference is made to new measures, amounting to an additional 25 million tonnes, but there is no distinction between the different measures. After all, it concerns 36 separate roadmaps. My question is therefore whether you can provide Parliament with the calculation of these 36 separate roadmaps. Otherwise, you're gonna get in trouble afterwards. If each policy domain refers to another policy area to reach that 25 million tonnes, you can of course not appeal to any of your colleagues to realize or unrealize it. Can you give me that clarification? A second aspect, which I found at least equally interesting, is that this 233 million tonnes is not all realized in the commitments that this country itself should undertake. There's a decent package in it that's in the emissions trading system. That is, of course, exciting, because every time we point out here the impact on CO2 emissions of the choice to build gas plants and shut down nuclear power plants, your fellow Member replies and once again you repeat that we should not take this into account because it is in the emissions trading system. I can tell I've already woken someone up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u36	Mr Wollants, I know that you have a great deal of knowledge about the ETS system and that you are very concerned about the CO2 emissions from these gas plants, and it also falls within the ETS system. When I mentioned in the debate on the construction of new efficient gas plants in our country that they would partly push away the old coal plants in Poland, you replied that this was not entirely true because there are too many CO2 emission allowances in the system. You were right. After all, Europe has informed this country that we have 117 million tonnes of CO2 left. It has not been ejected by the energy sector and not by large companies. We've got that left over. Our country has been asked what should be done with that surplus. The Flemish Government replied that it did not care whether the surplus was sold, auctioned or ejected. Colleagues, 117 million tonnes of CO2 means ten times the core exit. Mr Wollants, when you read that, you must have been very angry with your fellow party colleague, Mrs Demir.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u37	Mr Verduyckt, for the record, the surplus in the ETS I am referring to is not 117 million tonnes. The surplus we are talking about is 1.7 billion tonnes. That's what I'm talking about. I do not think that the idea that gas plants should be released as much as one wants because someone else will solve it is a good idea. Mr Verduyckt, I would also like to make a point. The government of which you are a member has, in its climate plans, been proud of the fact that 233 million tonnes of measures are being taken, including 90 million tonnes in the emissions trading system. That is 90 million tonnes, which you say doesn't really matter. In other words, it does not matter whether we emit those 90 million tonnes less. Of course, I have a problem with that. You say, on the one hand, that the closure of nuclear power stations is not a problem, because the 25 to 45 million tonnes involved are included in the emissions trading system. In October 2021, on the other hand, Ms Khattabi stepped to the government and presented a plan of 233 million tonnes, almost 40% of which disappeared into the emissions trading system. That's not consistent. If Mrs Khattabi says she wants to count the 90 million tonnes, she must also be honest in saying that emissions from these gas plants should be deducted from the list. Otherwise, you're not exactly consistent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u38	Why should you be concerned about the emissions of these gas plants if the 170 million tonnes that are left over and about which Europe says that they can be removed once, can be released? I do not see that consequence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u39	I know that the CO2 of these gas plants is not important to you, Mr Verduyckt. You think it is much more important to remove perfect nuclear power plants, which are better for health, are better for the wallet and are better for the climate. You'd do a lot for that. I understand that in the meantime, but the outside world really doesn't think so. Mrs Khattabi, how can you consistently say with these figures that you are still making an effort of 233 million tonnes, if certain items are not even budgeted yet? In terms of auction revenues, you have registered a number of figures. The tables today show the auction proceeds you assume. Today there is still no clarity about intra-Belgian burden-sharing. In the agenda of the last National Climate Commission, I saw that its chairman, probably still the Walloon Region, would make a statement in this respect. Can you tell us what the current state of affairs is? We have adopted a resolution here and in three other relevant parliaments to reach an agreement as soon as possible and preferably before COP26, which is now over. Where are we going? In the notifications you will find more information about the OCAD Climate and the climate-OCAD. That's in two different blocks, so I guess that's two different things. There's gonna be some money thrown into that anyway. We heard Mr Leysen earlier. He said that we must ensure that this proliferation of institutions, which has grown over the years, disappears. He said that we should clean it up and deal with it more efficiently. However, an OCAD Climate is being set up here, which, according to the tables, has to be spent EUR 1 million per year. Is that supposed to cost that much? That's a hell of a lot of money for that institute. Can you explain to me where that came from? I also have a question for the Belgium Builds Back Circular programme. On the other hand, EUR 29 million. Can you explain in detail what this EUR 29 million will be for? That is not clear today. It has not become clear in committee either. Finally, €2 million per year is foreseen for biodiversity. No one can, however, deduce from the description of what you are going to do with it today. It is relatively vague to say that pilot projects are being carried out and that internal capacity building is being carried out. Can you specify that? If you spend EUR 2 million, we would like to know in detail what this is about. Those clarifications are absolutely on the agenda. That is all we have time for today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u40	Madam President, Mr Wollants, we are here to talk about the budget and not about the CO2 budget, but I will talk about the amount of EUR 233 million. In the PNEC, the government is taking various measures, representing 108 tonnes of emissions plus €25 million to achieve the target of €55%. It is therefore only about this amount of EUR 233 million. There's nothing to it. You're asking me if anything comes in addition to that $233 million. No, all the measures are worth 233 million. You're right. I don't think you got the chips yet. I am waiting for a written question from the committee or from you. Then I'll send you the notes. I made a commitment, but it's true that I thought the request would follow. The sheets are in any case available to the commission or to you. In response to a written question. You will see that the measures taken are quite clear. Moreover, the Flemish Government did not make a mistake. He clearly sees the levers that we can take since, within the framework of the Flemish government's climate plan, which announces a reduction of 40%, the majority of the measures that enable Flanders to achieve this objective are federal measures. The ban on registration, for example, is a federal measure. And it is quite normal, and it is well within the framework of this inter-federal collaboration that we will achieve our objectives. As far as ETS revenues are concerned, like the other entities, we are counting on future revenues from auctioning allowances. We estimate that income conservatively. As you said, they depend on the establishment of a political agreement between the entities. The initial deadline for this was Glasgow's climate conference, but we are waiting for news from the next chairman of the National Climate Commission to know the new deadline. I can acknowledge here that I have drawn inspiration from what Flanders is doing, in an exchange that I have had with Minister Demir, on the urgency of reaching a burden sharing agreement, since we all need these amounts. She explained to me how she was doing so long as the amounts were not cleared and I was inspired by them, and on the basis of the agreement in principle that we had and which announced an agreement for Glasgow. We're waiting for a new deadline, but there's now a paper with a strong proposal from Philippe Henry. We have not yet reached an agreement, but it is a strong basis for doing so. The next president will be Minister Demir. I think that she has a good basis for her work and I hope that, as a woman, we will be able to reach an agreement in the near future. We all regretted that an agreement could not be reached in Glasgow. However, I must pay tribute to the work of the teams of the various cabinets and governments who have worked hard to put all the issues on the table. I do not hope we can reach an agreement in the coming months. I will not open the debate on the calculation of emissions that are or are not covered by the ETS, but I would like to say that our national target, i.e. minus 47%, is an objective outside the ETS system. It is this national objective outside ETS, and therefore what results from it in the context of my policy, that I must achieve. The issue of gas plants and their emissions, whether you want it or not or whether I want it or not, is not relevant to the calculation and effectiveness of the measures we will take. This does not therefore fall within the 233 million. Indeed, you said that, out of honesty, they should be calculated, which is not true, and you know that. The national target of at least 47% is a non-STE target. Therefore, my non-ETS targets do not account for gas emissions either. As far as the climate OCAM is concerned, no one is a prophet in his country. I attended a meeting with South African researchers involved in the drafting of the report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). In 2021, they released a document on the issue of risk analysis on the basis of which we began our reflection, in connection with Walloon news, for this Climate OCAM. They told us that the mechanism that we were preparing was new not only at the European level, but also at the global level, that they saw an interest in it and that they invited us to make contact, which we are working on, with the members of the IPCC and with various authors of the last IPCC report. Indeed, they felt that IPCC reports could integrate our integrated approach to risk analysis. It's quite unheard of. If I say so here, it is because we are trying to develop the most effective device possible. I had a meeting last week with the Crisis Centre and Minister Verlinden's office to try to reach a body or body that would be attached to the Crisis Centre. Discussions are under way. As you know, the 2050 law is not just carbon neutrality. It is also the resilience of states and the latter also requires risk analysis and anticipation. This is the objective of the Climate OCAM. I communicated Thursday or Friday with my colleague Dermagne on the federal action plan for a circular economy. This includes 25 very clear measures that I will forward to you. You asked me about the amounts and their allocation. One of the challenges of this budget is the establishment of a fund to which companies will be entitled. The idea is therefore to support enterprises, SMEs in an innovation approach in terms of circular economy. The device is being built but there will be a call for projects to support the companies that innovate. About biodiversity, environmental competence is mostly in the hands of the Regions. However, under the climate policy framework, we also wanted the federal government, as owner, consumer and employer, to be exemplary in some areas. I do not go into the details of the projects because the meeting was held yesterday. The idea is that in collaboration with Mr. Gilkinet at the level of SNCB, Ms. Dedonder through the areas under Defence ownership, and my colleague at the Régie des Bâtiments, we want to ensure that where we own, we can implement biodiversity best practices. Discussions are under way to stop the projects. We will also come back to that. I believe that I have already given you some answers. As far as road maps are concerned, I am not going to wait for the question. I will make available to the secretariat of the committee the documents that have already been circulated. You will be able to learn about the various measures and the CO2 budget allocated to them, which makes it possible to reach the 233 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u41	The big problem with this 233 million is, of course, that if you have the 90 million effectively as the basis for the National Energy and Climate Plan, with the adjusted estimates and that kind of thing, and you count them for the ETS, then of course you have to count the issues with a negative impact on the ETS. That makes sense to me. We have already discussed the roadmaps several times in plenary. I think you've already promised twice to deliver it to the committee. It was not clear to me that you meant that I should also make a written request to you. No problem, if that's what you want formally with my signature, my stamp and my ribbon, then we'll make sure that the information gets to the committee. Actually, the debate was largely about that, what exactly is going to happen? With regard to the other two matters, I am particularly interested in what you will do with these resources. I have the impression that this has yet to be worked out. While, for example, EUR 6 million in the biodiversity budget over three years is on the other hand, I understand that what you are going to do with this is something that needs to be looked at. Usually it works the other way around. We have a project, for which we are asking for money within the budget. If these are good projects, that money is likely to be allocated. Here it seems as if the money was first awarded and now one is looking at what one will do with it. I think that's the opposite world.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u42	Mr. Wollants, you're right. I asked for a bigger budget because we had some projects. Now I have to make choices because I've been given a smaller amount. That is why I do not give precise answers so far, because I still have a number of choices to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u43	Mrs Khattabi, I did not sign up, but topicality forces me to speak briefly. In the end, it is also about the policy paper. However, the 2022 budget and the policy paper are somewhat intertwined. One of your great passions is the carbon tax. Your policy paper states that you are working on this together with Mr Van Peteghem. In fact, it was even a priority for Mr Van Peteghem to integrate this into his major fiscal reform. I'd like to put my only question to you. You will, of course, follow current events with your cabinet and staff. I'm literally reading what appeared on Belga two hours ago: "Even though winter has only just begun, European gas prices for delivery in the summer of 2022 have risen to a record price today." They have risen above 100 euros per megawatt hour for the summer. Prices rose by more than 30% for the third quarter. Normally gas prices are much lower in summer due to high temperatures and lower demand. Why do I say that? More and more elements seem to indicate that the high gas price, which also has an impact on the electricity price, can last for a long time. My question is whether this will affect the creation of the carbon tax, the tax on fossil fuels such as gas, and the tax shift from electricity to gas. I don't think you can ignore reality. You raised issues such as the climate bonus related to the extension of ETS to mobility and housing in Fit for 55's plans. This is likely to be shifted to the future. At the last European Summit of 16 December 2021, the question was asked whether Fit for 55 should be implemented so quickly, in the light of what is currently happening at geopolitical level. For example, Russia has today completely shut down its supply to Germany. You know that Russia does not supply us with gas, but it does fundamentally influence the price of gas in Europe. That is why I would have liked to have heard your views on this, whether you think that a carbon tax can just happen in these circumstances. Finally, I would also like to refer to the section on the energy standard, namely permanent benchmarking with neighbouring countries. I will probably be able to ask Mrs van der Straeten again tonight. This benchmark is not for nothing, it is also intended to be used as a policy. I therefore believe that in 2022, together with Mrs van der Straeten, you will still have to pursue some policy on prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u44	At the beginning of your speech, you said that the carbon tax was my passion. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u45	When you took office, the media said that you were in favour of a carbon tax, and then it was said that it would be integrated into Mr Van Peteghem's global reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u46	If you wish, we will one day talk about my passions, but tax is not part of it. You are returning to a debate that we had two years ago. I have known you and know you - I say it very sincerely - more intellectually in our work. I regret that you are returning with this debate here. You know that; I said so. The debate on environmental taxation is now taking place at European level. That's the lead we're focusing on. As you said, it happens in the context of Fit for 55. So far, my position has been that, if there is a carbon tax, it is best done at European level. It must come from the European level. That's the first thing. Secondly, if there were to be environmental taxation at European level, the result of any environmental taxation must be the Member States, which themselves must use it in the context of the fair transition. U hebtook gezegd that in the majority agreement, we are talking about a climate bonus. Where appropriate, the outcome of environmental taxation, whatever it may be, will go to families and businesses as part of a support for the just transition. For the rest, we are waiting for the outcome of these negotiations, whether on price, koolstoftaks or on the carbon adjustment mechanism, since that is what this is all about. We are working with my colleague Van Peteghem on a comprehensive tax reform that will incorporate a green tax reform, but which now has incentives rather than taxes. Until 2024, you can come back with the element of the carbon tax as it was debated by those who wanted to stop any progress on polluter/pays and not by me. This debate is going well on a European scale and it is from this that we will continue work on this with my colleague Van Peteghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u47	Madam Minister, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you move on to Mrs Van der Straeten's skills. But I don't see her in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u48	Madam Minister, I would like to discuss this with you regarding the budget and your policy paper, which is part of it. We were just talking to Minister Khattabi about the CO2 targets that the federal government has adopted. You may recall your statement in an interview that the federal government has realized more in one year than the Flemish government did in fifteen years. When we asked you for details, you mentioned four measures which, unless I took a completely wrong note at the time, were about commercial vehicles, the efforts of bpost, rail and the route towards the 233 million tonnes reduction in CO2 emissions. We have just referred these matters to Minister Khattabi and she confirmed to us that those first three measures have already been incorporated into the last measure. So you can't just add it up, because if you do, it's a double count. It is important to clarify the concrete way in which you want to contribute from the Energy policy area to the 233 million tonnes reduction in CO2 emissions. After all, we have to note that the CO2 effort in your policy area is largely reflected in the ETS part. Every time we talk about emissions from the gas plants, you think we have nothing to worry about, because these emissions are included in the ETS, and that really doesn't matter. What we emit more is less emitted elsewhere. If your policy measures for the 233 million tonnes already include 40% in the ETS, that means that 40%, if you realize them, will simply be emitted somewhere else. In that sense, I wonder what policy you intend to pursue in the future. Either you take all your ETS measures out of your calculation. Either you keep them in, but then you also have to include the increased emissions from the gas plants. It's one or the other. What's your vision on that? Another element is the core exit, which we have been discussing for some time. In the past, we questioned the Prime Minister about this and it was said that there would still be time if we decided in November 2021. At the time, the Prime Minister said in the hemisphere of the European Parliament that retroplanning had been carried out and that this could still be carried out. We had our reservations about that, but the Prime Minister insisted that it could be done and you were very pleased. You were applauding loudly; I reviewed the footage. What is the state of play now? When is the decision taken? Do you think that is still possible today? The Prime Minister has made a very clear announcement that, if we want to change the law, we still have more than enough time. In response to my interplay, he underlined that until June 2022 we still have time to amend the law, so there is no problem. Is it true there's no problem at all? Are you prepared to amend the law without an environmental impact report? Minister Khattabi's employees have in the past moved to the Constitutional Court for the Better Environment Bond against extending the lifetime of Objectives 1 and 2. I suppose we have time again to let that procedure go ahead before that environmental impact report has to be completed. In that respect, of course, Engie has plenty of time. The question is whether the Prime Minister's reasoning is correct. Can we do that? We need to know what things are going to look like. Thirdly, you have already proposed a number of measures in the press for the core exit. Could you give us more information on these measures? What are the legal consequences? How do you propose to roll it out? This also depends on the possibilities of the budget path. It obviously has budgetary consequences if you have to start certain studies or not. I would like to know from you what direction you are going and when we can expect something. What is your timing for the measures concerning the windmills at sea? Today the same timing is still on the website of the FPS Economy and the FPS Energy with the KB concerning the tender at the end of this year. Has that trajectory started yet? Are all the studies ongoing? When will they be ready? From the discussion we have just had with Mrs Khattabi, we learn that from 2027 onwards the revenues will be included in the figures on CO2 emissions. Are you on schedule? How do you deal with that? In addition, there is the criticism of the CREG that you can make that decision, but that you should do so on the basis of the correct figures. In fact, the CREG says that you did not use the correct figures. In committee, you said that the CREG could provide input, but that you would not change the decision anymore. That is crazy, because if you have made a decision on the basis of wrong figures, then it may have far-reaching consequences. The Prime Minister has also said a number of times here that we would very much like to build the new windmills without subsidies. You will only be able to do so if you do so in the most efficient way, namely by taking into account the comments made by the CREG. By the way, in a communication, Germany admits that the renewable energy projects will still need support up to 2040. Do you share that opinion? Depending on this, you will, of course, have to provide the necessary resources in the coming years. Finally, with regard to the gas plants, a subject on which we have had a number of exchanges of views, the resolution, which we have worked out together according to journalists, which is largely correct, stated that you had to take measures to ensure that the costs did not end up on the consumer's invoice. You did not mention this problem, because the energy standard made sure that the costs did not end up on the invoice. That's how you got rid of that, for the time being. But that is how you object to the next budgets. By the way, from your note submitted to the nuclear cabinet on 3 December, we learn that a total cost of EUR 317 million is still being taken into account in the CRM system for 2025. But with your alternatives to the construction of the gas plants, so without the plant in Vilvoorde and possibly without the plant in Awirs, the cost could be a lot higher. My question is therefore very specific: will you decide on the financing of the gas plants in the coming year? Or will you move it back to another government, which would not be the most responsible budgetary policy? Can you confirm that? In what way will things happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u49	Madam President, Minister, we will continue our discussion on the EUR 80. Last time you had to go to the television studio, to Terzoe. You and Minister Van Peteghem have written history over the past few weeks and months in the federal energy story with the conceptualization of the energy standard. For the first time there is a federal government that intervenes in the event of the energy bill as a hidden tax bill, of course limited to the federal part. There is the fragrant incense barrel of this altar boy, you think, but this altar boy will be a bit naughty too. Not only religion, but also Vivaldi is intoxicating opium for the people. Mrs van der Straeten, in the last winter, the CREG carried out a study which showed that, if no intervention was taken in the federal levies and surcharges, they would inevitably increase over the next few years, with all the consequences for the invoice. The increase in the amounts was automatically reflected in the levy to be paid per megawatt hour. In addition, the CRM costs, already outlined by Mr Wollants, and the long-standing concerns of the European Commission regarding the absolute CAP on the offshore surcharge, have been outlined. These are all triggers that led you and Minister Van Peteghem to the energy standard. It is indeed ensured that federal charges do not increase further in the coming years by replacing all charges with an excise duty on electricity and an excise duty on gas. There is no longer a surcharge on network charges, but an excise duty paid to the State. The level is laid down by law, so that fluctuations on the cost side no longer give rise to an automatic increase in tariffs. The volume of excise duties is aligned on the reference year 2021 and is thus provely frozen there. The EUR 156 million additional costs are neatly divided into some EUR 104 million additional costs financed by general funds and EUR 52 million in exemptions for families and businesses in the 2022 budget. Yes, Mrs van der Straeten, it is a structural measure. Mr Wollants has rightly said that, as far as long-term financing of CRM costs is concerned, there is still some uncertainty, I will not repeat that. The question that concerns many consumers - let me be naughty because I am talking about the 82% that do not benefit from the social rate - is to what extent this initiative will have an effect on their invoice. If we put together your efforts and Mrs Demir's, we will be voting for this broad group of working people who are now faced with new advance invoices of 300 to 400 euros per month, on a monthly basis, with barely 8 to 9 euros, Flemish and federal combined. That is why we abstained from these articles of the programme law, Madam Minister. If you repeat the phrase in the coalition agreement and claim to ensure that the federal part of the electricity bill falls, then we must take it with lots of grains of salt. With your targeted policy, you are not responding to the enormous impact of very high energy prices on the purchasing power of the majority of energy consumers. The question is therefore what to buy as a consumer, even when excise duties are frozen. I am sure that you are following current events, Mrs Van der Straeten. Two hours ago today it was said that the purchase price for gas for this summer is already above EUR 100 per megawatt hour. That is a huge problem that will also come to you in 2022. Contrary to what the CREG had expected, for example, that after the first quarter everything would be fine, more and more experts now say that the population and businesses will continue to be plagued by torrential energy prices. I must not hide the fact that Russia has a significant influence on the European gas price, as you know. Real cure exists. Mr Warmoes will undoubtedly talk again about reducing VAT on energy to 6%, but for us all public service obligations and other costs of the federal and Flemish energy policies must be removed from the invoice. That's what Test Purchase said in committee this morning. That's literally in the press release of Test Purchase. Only then can you really have an impact on the invoice. Madam Secretary, then I come to the Princess Elisabeth Zone. For us, what you said in committee is clear. Perhaps it is not clear to Mr Wollants, but I have listened to what you said in committee. Expectations have been created for me. You said that the LCOE study, levelized cost of energy, of study firm 3E can be deduced with sufficient certainty that the LCOE is manageable, which can lead to an effective lack of funding for the whole. Madam Secretary, you are creating expectations for the coming years. How this is consistent with your preference for a double-sided contract is, of course, going to be discussed in committee, but the Flemish interest does not want energy consumers to subsidise new offshore projects through their invoice or excise duties. Whatever can be done abroad should also be possible here. I was just talking to Mrs Khattabi about phasing out fossil fuels in the context of these extremely high gas prices. This carbon tax is apparently to be decided at European level. There will still be a need for some debate when I think back to the last European summit. Indeed, a number of EU Member States want to move away from the European market for allowances. Several Member States also made quite a few demands with regard to Fit for 55. This is a legislative package that still has to be phased out in the end, and these are just proposals. I think Fit for 55 will have to be very fit to run this marathon in this energy crisis, which can drag on for a while. Madam Minister, next year, and there will be soon, you may be confronted again with people who are calling the alarm on the further extension of the social tariff and do not want to return to the intermediate rate, on the way back to the commercial suppliers. You will also be obliged, in the case of the numerous budgetary changes, Mrs De Bleeker, to go deep into the federal wallet. I think this is inevitable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u50	Minister, we had hearings this morning in the Committee on Energy, Environment and Climate on rising energy prices. We have been struck by what we have learned. I'll give you a few numbers. Two months ago, it was still said that it would be better after the winter about electricity and gas prices. That's why you extended the social rate until April. The CREG has announced that, on the basis of what is happening today in the markets, prices will remain abnormally high until 2024 or 2025. People who have a fixed-price contract are waiting for it to expire. People who have a variable-priced contract – about a third of households – experienced between April 2021 and March 2022 an increase of 201 euros on their electricity bill and 1,158 euros on natural gas bill. That's an extra €1,359. The CREG also carried out a theoretical projection. If the sharp rise in the markets continues until June 2022, on the basis of the prices of 17 December 2021, it will be necessary to count €698 more for electricity and €2,291 more for natural gas. If we add up, we get 2,989 euros. The CREG stated that this could also be higher or lower. For the social tariff, between December 2020 and December 2021, there is a supplement of 220 euros for electricity and 200 euros for gas, i.e. 420 euros in total. This is the situation facing households in Belgium. What steps do you take? You extend the social rate until April 2022. Compare this with high prices that will remain until 2024-2025; this affects a million households. You offer these households a reduction of 80 euros on their bill, compare this with the increase of 420 euros today and with future increases. Indeed, you know very well that the social rate increases in increments. The enlargement of the social tariff must be extended and permanent. It is absolutely necessary to freeze the increase in the social rate. I have already asked you several times and you have never answered. One element was added today by Platform for Combating Energy Precarity: the extension of access to the social tariff on the basis of income and not just social status. Someone with BIM status is entitled to the social rate, but an unemployed person with little income is not entitled to it. That's an example. You introduce the energy standard which gives a reduction of 30 euros. We had a discussion. Thirty euros on the basis of 2022 rates. If we apply it at the current rate, it's 8.67 euros, but I'll grant you 30 euros. In case of an increase of €3,000, make the comparison. That's 1%. Here are a few observations, Minister. Energy has become completely unpayable for a large section of the population. Compared to the social rate, you say you want to protect the weakest but you can't do it at all with your measurements. You know that 82% of the population or households are not entitled to the social rate. Test-Achats insisted this morning that there should be measures for the middle classes, for the vast majority of workers in this country. They had a graph showing that they had twice as many calls today about energy as before. The Prime Minister talks about the biggest reform of the energy bill ever made, which, according to your figures, pays households 30 euros. According to our calculations, on the basis of today's figures, it is only 8 euros. You yourself said, Madam Minister, on October 11, 2020, the following. I grant you, you didn't know at that time that the price was going to rise so much. "My commitment is clear, the bill must be lowered." That's what you said at the time in De Zondag. Yet, and we will continue to insist on that, there are other possibilities. You know that we have been advocating for a 6% reduction in energy VAT for a long time. Almost 300,000 people have already signed our petition. Spain and Cyprus have already taken this step. By comparison, the Netherlands has granted EUR 2.7 billion to households, not by reducing VAT but by reducing the tax rate. This amounts to 400 euros per household and, as a reminder, there are countries such as the United Kingdom, Luxembourg, Malta and Greece where the rate of VAT on energy varies between 5 and 8%. So we still don't understand why you absolutely keep this rate of VAT at 21%, which is the luxury rate! There is still the issue of the Gas Electricity Fund. I've already asked you a lot about this, but you've never answered. I got my answer today. On the one hand, you have restored - this is good and we will support you on this point - the indexation of the Gas Electricity Fund. For those who don't know, it comes in support of CPAS that have to help people who are in difficulty paying for their electricity or gas bills and, on the other hand, you have released an additional 16 million for this Fund for once. I always wondered how you calculated that amount and whether that was enough. You didn't answer me, but we got the answer today from the Platform for Combating Energy Precarity. This is not enough and they insist on reviewing the indexing mechanism. I have already repeated this request to you several times, a request they made, two years ago. When we say we index the Fund, it's fine. But it is at the price of the health index while the price of energy increases much more. Not to mention that the staff that CPAS must hire to help households in difficulty - and there is an increasing number of them - is growing much faster than the Fund's indexation. They clearly need additional resources. They recalled the figure they had advanced in 2019, which was 30 million. Madam Minister, in conclusion, I would also like to hear from you on this point. For us, energy is a right, not a commodity. You've made it a commodity that trades in the markets. When I say to you, it is not you personally, I am talking about the whole Chamber here: from the liberal nationalist variant or the liberal-liberal variant, to the ecologists, to the other political families that have liberalized this sector to arrive at this situation, namely that what is a right is no longer for a large section of the population. I'd like you to assume responsibility and take meaningful action to really help people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u51	Madam President, Mr Warmoes, I would like to take this opportunity to supplement your statement. It was indeed a very interesting hearing this morning, which took a few hours and was on a subject that will probably still be discussed here often. After all, the messages we received today were absolutely not favourable messages. Mr Warmoes, you have mentioned almost all the figures. However, it is not correct of you to say anything about the social rate other than what was given this morning. You're talking about a piece of shit. That's really disrespectful. It has also been very clearly pointed out this morning that, if there was one more thing to mention that was beneficial, despite the fact that the high prices are likely to continue and have a huge impact on the budgets of our families, it was that the social tariff is indeed a protection today. For electricity, 60% today is the average rate compared to an average household rate. In the case of gas, that is 25%. We must be honest: 25% of what a family pays is not covered by the price increase. That is indeed a serious protection. You're taking that off like a piece of shit. That's really not okay. I personally agree with you on the need for more structural measures. We will all have to think about this. TestAchasing today proposed 6 % VAT on a base rate. According to my intel, that's impossible. In my view, Europe does not allow two different VAT rates on the same product. However, these are matters that we really need to look at. After all, we are at the beginning of a very big problem. The energy crisis will not be over tomorrow. Mr Warmoes, it would have decorated you if you had quoted the CREG and all the other bodies correctly here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u52	Madam President, Mr Verduyckt, you put words in my mouth that I have not spoken. I did not claim that the social tariff does not provide protection. I have also argued in favour of making that rate permanent. I fully agree with that. I have the slide in front of me, so I'd like to give you the figures. The social rate is 40% lower than the average price on the commercial market. For gas, it is 25% less than the average price on the commercial market. However, the average price on the commercial market has risen sharply. What I have indicated is that the EUR 80 that the government offers compared to the EUR 400 increase that already exists means 20%. That's what I'm talking about. However, I did not claim that the social tariff is not protection, and I certainly did not advocate abolishing it. I didn't make fun of it either. However, it also goes up. I asked the Minister if she wanted to block the tariff so that it would be even better protection. In the long term, it is no longer really a protection, because the rate has risen so much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u53	Madam President, I would like to thank Members for the questions on the policy paper and the programme law, some of which, of course, have already been further implemented in the context of the policy paper and the budget. This week the flat-rate discount was signed by me and colleagues. Ministerial instruction on the OMCWs for the fund of EUR 16 million has also been signed. We came here in October with a budget that proposed a very large package, with a great deal of effort to put together an energy package, in various areas, in the short term, but also in the long term, with the energy standard. By the end of the year, we can say that large parts of these have already been implemented and from 1 January, parts will be further implemented. The biggest simplification of the invoice through the energy standard will be achieved from 1 January 2022. This is also due to good and smooth cooperation in Parliament. The programme law contains important elements for the energy standard. Afterwards, a number of issues, beginning next year, follow various provisions on energy in the law. Some people make fun of that. Mr Wollants, you have said that I have given up on the support of the CRM. It is particularly disappointing to talk in this way about the biggest reform on the invoice. You did approve it yourself, didn't you? It is easy to stand in the gallery and make those statements, but at the same time to vote in favour. This is a typical example of the N-VA. One thing is said before the elections, the other after the elections. One minute they say one thing, the next they say the other. We urgently need to move away from this zigzag policy, including energy policy. We decided to remove the CRM support mechanism from the invoice. Maybe you're not okay with that? Do you really think that the investment we are making in this country should be placed on the invoice in the context of security of supply? In the context of the budget, too, your group leader has said that we always need this support mechanism. You said that I quickly got rid of it by keeping it out of the invoice and putting it in the budget. Then you also ignore the fact that degressivity is financed from the budget until 31 December. I don't accept that things are getting messed up around here. The facts matter. Choices have been made, there has been work on transparency and work has been done on lighting the invoice. That is a merit of this government. As far as CO2 is concerned, I would first of all like to refer to what my colleague, Mrs Zakia Khattabi, has said about this. Of course there are several ministers in the governments and of course they can also be interviewed separately, but above all I feel that it is an attempt to turn ministers against each other or drive a wedge between them. I'm not gonna be a part of that. You ask me what the contribution is from my domain to the 230 million tonnes and you tell me that I have to give an answer that does not relate to the ETS. Then the answer will be that among other things, the stimulus of climate-neutral fuels is a contribution from the Energy policy area. But, of course, the whole energy policy is aimed at working on a carbon-neutral energy system, in which we will initiate and accelerate the transition to 100% renewable energy, hence the government has taken decisions, which are already in progress, in terms of increasing the wind target at sea and the federal hydrogen vision. Then I will come straight to the answer to your questions concerning windmills at sea and the timing. I have looked at the website of the FPS Economy, which does indeed need some updating in terms of the objective, because it has not been adapted accordingly. It is also very clear that the timing always depends on the connection and therefore on the Boucle du Hainaut and Ventilus projects, as I said in the context of the discussion of the policy paper. These are large-scale projects in the hands of the Regions, but they are going to make it possible to connect to the sea. So if that timing moves, there will be an effect on the timing of windmills at sea. For the things we control ourselves, we are on track. The budgets are prepared for the geophysical preliminary studies. You also asked about the timing of the tender KB, the public consultation will be launched at the beginning of next year, January, to be precise, to be ready indeed, so that the tender can be launched at the right time to be ready. Then I hope that the regions too will work in a diligent manner as part of the same urgency. I refer, among other things, to the decisions of the competent Flemish minister on the permit. In committee, I explained that I wrote to my fellow ministers in the working group on cross-regional projects in order to find out more about this. That was, among other things, at the request of our colleague from the PS, Mr Prévot. Mr Prévot often asked me about the progress of the Hainaut loop project. I explained the same to him. I understand that he too was positive about a consultative body where different entities find each other to discuss these projects, so that the best approach can be found. As far as the cost is concerned, I refer to what I said in committee. There was a question from Mr Ravyts. That study was indeed ordered and carried out by 3E as regards the LCOE and the effect of the density on the LCOE in the Princess Elisabeth zone. Then I said that if all the other parameters remain the same and density in the parks is increased to the maximum, the LCOE according to the study increases by less than 5%. This information was also provided to all colleagues in the government, because the purpose of the study was to make a comparison between the different scenarios and to see which were cheaper or more expensive compared to the reference scenario. We also discussed the role and position of the CREG in committee. At that time, I explained that the CREG was indeed involved through the Task Force, but also that work on it is being continued. In any case, I think Mr Ravyts was the most correct one here. He referred to my statements that it can be done without subsidies. That is what I am sticking to today. It can be done without subsidies. It is also true that expectations have been created, but I will also tell you on what basis. It concerns in particular the LCOE study that we have carried out. Secondly, we are also looking at the reductions that are effective in technology, which also have an impact which leads to the subsidy mechanisms going down and we could work without a subsidy in the form of a zero bid or a contract for difference. Mr Wollants, it is true that expectations have been created. I support that statement and, in fact, I support the interpretation that you attach to it. It's not just an expectation. Together with the North Sea Minister, with whom I agree, I am also addressing the sector itself. We see that the cost of this technology is falling and we will see to it that these cost reductions are implemented in the subsidy mechanism. In addition to an expectation that we will continue to push the sector from the government, so that we can create added value for our country and our society, for our citizens. We want cheap green electricity to have access to cheap energy. Sun and wind energy are the only technologies whose costs are effectively reduced. At the same time, we are creating an industry that brings added value to our society. The offshore wind industry, that is, wind at sea, has now created a whole value chain in our country, which is also being exported. For example, the West Flemish company GEOxyz started following the first offshore zone in the North Sea. That company is now deploying its expertise abroad. That's a wonderful story. The manager of GEOxyz, whose father was surveyor, said he wants to do at sea what his father did on land. There's a whole company working out around that. In the meantime, many people work for it, either on payroll or in subcontracting. This expertise is now used in other countries as well. That's what the investment in the first zone got us as a country. In the second area, we are continuing to do so, but with an upside for the consumer. My preference is that the public consultation will go further in this regard and goes out to a zero prayer, so that the proceeds can also flow back. Most of this work will be carried out next year, so we will be able to return to that at regular intervals. Mr Ravyts, you mentioned the gas price. Indeed, in the meantime, reality is catching up with us. We were talking here for the first time in September about high energy prices, for the budget. At the same time, we have always referred to the global context, which is still there. Then we got information from the CREG that the prospects were that prices would fall. Prices will fall, but not to the previous level. The quarterly quotations are still higher than expected. I think you referred to that. Yeah, I'm worried about that, too. Mr Verduyckt said the hearing was interesting this morning. I also referred last time to the ESA report, which is also very interesting, in connection with the high-price bill. We will have to keep following this constantly and adjust our policies. Looking at the energy package, at the European Commission's toolbox, at the ESA report in this area, it will be necessary to continue looking at the storage possibilities, reserves and the level of filling for gas. It is also very important to see which price mechanisms are opposed to this. I came to the committee last week with a draft law to apply a new mechanism of pricing for our own gas storage in Loenhout. I regret that the texts could not be distributed in good time, but I also regret that at that time we were unable to have a substantive discussion and that no questions were asked about that draft. I fully understand that it was not possible to vote because the texts could not be forwarded in time, but we are working on an improvement here. We want to create an incentive to ensure that the reserves are filled. I would ask Parliament to continue this work quickly. This is not a miracle solution or a global solution, but it is something that we need to look at at Belgian and European level. If we, as ministers, come to Parliament with a bill at a time when prices are going through the roof, then I find it a little harsh to see that there are no questions, ladies and gentlemen. That is also what was said here about the social tariff. Mr Warmoes, that should not be dismissed as a bummer. One in five people currently live in energy poverty. We're protecting a large group. There is a great budgetary effort on the part of this government. It shouldn't be bathed about that. During the first budget discussion we had in the context of the Prime Minister's policy statement, we talked here about the fact that working people are not able to make sufficient use of it. I repeat what I said then and also in committee. It's a global approach. A plethora of measures have also been taken within the budget, both inside and outside the Department of Energy, which benefit people who work. Within the expansion of the target group are people who work. However, for those who are not entitled to do so, there are also measures in the budget that increase purchasing power. It's always useful to look at the whole thing. Madam President, much has happened in a short time, but perhaps more needs to be done in the future. You can all count on my commitment and voluntarism as a minister to bring that to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u54	Madam Secretary, a number of comments. Firstly, I asked you about the route of the core exit and the decisions that would be taken in it, as well as about the Prime Minister's statements. You didn't answer that. I also know why. If the Prime Minister is here to argue that the Prime Minister was wrong, it is always difficult. Secondly, on the cost of the CRM system, we stated in the resolution, which we made together, that it should not be on the invoice. It was one of the requirements not to put it on the invoice. We have both said that we need to get the government to make proposals on how it should be financed. MP Van der Straeten thought that was important, but Minister Van der Straeten says that this is before us. That's for 2025 and for another government. So we're not gonna do that. That's the difference. You can try to talk to me about anything, Mrs van der Straeten, but let us be honest, then you said something else. Your position at the time was much more logical than that it should disappear into the big pot of the budget and someone else has to solve it. Thirdly, on offshore, you and my colleague Ravyts referred to the LCOE study of study bureau 3E. Minister Van Quickenborne has said that there are problems with this study. The CREG has also said that there are problems with this study and the assessments made in it are not correct. If you now refer to the study to say that it is not all that bad, but Minister Van Quickenborne believes that there is a problem with that, I would look at that again. If you don't, you're gonna get stuck. You can still refer to that study, but if our regulator says she's not correct, I'd pay attention to that. We're gonna have to see what we're gonna do with that sooner. Madam Secretary, we are not going to make any progress. You're stuck in your right. The draft law that you have tabled will not be a walk in the park either, because I understand that there are some cross-border problems with that. We're gonna have to look into that. You have been informed of this, by the way. It is a pity that you did not mention this here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u55	I spoke about my bill in connection with the gas storage in Loenhout. I would like to hear what would be a regional competence, Mr Wollants. Secondly, you have also reported this, in committee, MP Van der Straeten versus Minister Van der Straeten. However, I am completely unaware of that. MP Van der Straeten, together with MP Wollants, has drawn up a resolution to ensure that the European Commission has declared the case for the CRM in full. That was because the resolution, which was supported by many groups here in the Chamber, made a choice for a financing system. That was then that we would introduce an ODV on the invoice that would include compensation for families and businesses, in order to avoid an increase in prices. In other words, we then had in mind that this would become something like the contribution for the offshore, a contribution that comes on the invoice in the form of a surcharge that some do have to pay and others do not. However, within the framework of the offshore contribution, the European Commission has said that this was not notified and there were serious problems with it. If that were not restored, a notice of default would follow and everything that was wrongly not paid would still have to be paid, because it would be classified as illegal state aid. That is why my colleague Vincent Van Peteghem and I have examined the energy bill for both electricity and gas and transformed the contribution into an excise duty. As far as excise duties are concerned, there are, of course, exemptions, for families and for businesses. We included the CRM, because we wanted to get rid of these farms and because we wanted to work on transparency, simplicity and a structural measure. It is true that this means that there is another funding, but that in no way undermines what is in the resolution, namely that, if you pursue policy, you do not have to cover it up on the invoice one by one. This also means that resources must come from elsewhere. That's right, but we shouldn't pretend that's not the case today. Degressivity is financed from there until 31 December. So the methodology already exists. It is therefore necessary to look at the whole picture. It will also simplify the invoice. I would like to add a third point. The MPs Van der Straeten and Wollants together included in the same resolution a number of elements concerning the CRM design, which were subsequently incorporated into a number of KBs and the CRM Act and which inherently also reduced the cost of CRM. We worked on that together, Mr. Wollants. It will certainly happen that I, as a minister, will occasionally act differently from what I said as a Member of Parliament, but this is not the case in this case. What is true is that we took the slopes of excise duty and not the slopes that were in our heads when we wrote the resolution. That's only normal, when you start working on something and can work out something performative that does achieve the same goal. There's nothing wrong with that, on the contrary, that worked well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u56	Madam Secretary, for the record, two Members of Parliament, like a lot of others, have done a good job. However, they also had something else in mind, namely that it is not appropriate to say that the costs should be excluded from the invoice without providing a funding path. So there have been examples put forward, such as the eternal anti-fraud lockpoint, and cost-saving measures had to be sought on top of what that apparently brilliant group of Members of Parliament had already worked out. But I have to say, Madam Minister, that this part of the resolution has not been implemented. Not only were you 11 months late to do it, you just said you weren't going to do it anymore. You knew that part of the budget was going to end up in the budget and you were not going to make any more proposals for its financing. The latter was, however, the idea of the whole group of MPs who contributed to the resolution. I understand that. If you do not get out of the government and decide that it should not be paid until 2025, after the next elections, then the easiest solution to decide is not to do it anymore. So if you ask me whether I still support that resolution today, my answer is that I still do so at 100%. Only his parts of it weren't carried out, when I thought they were very good ideas. They were very fiercely defended by everyone here, with the exception of the two groups who abstained because they supported some points and others did not. So we have all defended this resolution very strongly, point by point. When Mr Verduyckt had things included on competitiveness, in order to ensure that there would not be too much concentration of power, we considered that this could be justified. We felt that steps should be taken in terms of funding and that we should make this final, so that the government would not be able to transfer that cost to another government. That was important to us, too. However, I have to say afterwards that the parties who have ended up in the government want to implement the points they consider important and not the points they are having difficulty with. That's the problem. In fact, you have already said in so many words that it will have to be incorporated into the budget at the time of payment. I blame you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u57	Madam President, it is either or. We reject it being included in the budget, so it is on the invoice. Dont acte.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u58	Madam President, it seems to me that you have heard that the speaking time was two minutes per speaker and that we could not speak twice on the same subject. Here, we have a question, an answer, a counter-question, a counter-answer, a counter-counter-question and a counter-counter-answer. This is the debate on the budget and we have already had the general debate this morning; yet I have not heard any figures yet. Are we going to continue this way for a long time? I know that in Parliament you can say whatever you want, but at some point you still have to be reasonable, it seems to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u59	The Energy Committee is always available to continue certain debates. I'll set this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u60	Mr. Wollants, for the last time, one minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u61	I am not asking the Minister to reply to that again. Madam Secretary, you are making a false contradiction. It is not because it does not appear on the invoice that it should not then be said how it is resolved within the budget. That is to say, at the time, savings were intended to be made for that amount, new revenues were sought for that amount, and so on. You're not taking that step. You now want to make it appear that I want it on the invoice, because I want to know how this is financed within the budget. That's not correct. That's not true, and you know it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u62	Madam Secretary, you have actually said quite little about prices. Sometimes I have the impression that you are more aware of the performance of Belgian companies abroad than of the prices faced by families. At one point in your speech, you said that you were joining Mr Warmoes, but I think you meant Mr Verduyckt, because it was about the shit. You say that the government is making a major budgetary effort. I checked, maybe I'm forgetting something. For the extension of the social tariff to 1 April 2022, EUR 208 million is foreseen, for the energy standard EUR 116 million, if I limit myself to the 2022 budget, as it is now being discussed, and there is also EUR 16 million plus 3.4 indexation for the Gas and Electricity Funds. Allow me to add that up and compare it with, for example, the EUR 2.7 billion foreseen in the Netherlands. The Netherlands does not have such an absurd state structure with four energy ministers and a division of powers, so I may have to add the efforts of the Regions. For the sake of clarity, I would also like to say that we have supported all your measures, such as the energy standard, the extension of the social tariff and additional support for the Gas and Electricity Fund. We support all the small steps and have therefore voted in favour of all these measures. I have also clarified the use of gibberish with regard to Mr Verduyckt. What I mean by my sum total is that this is far too little in relation to the problem facing families, and indeed SMEs and even large companies. The government must be able to do much more. A few months ago, we ourselves calculated that the additional VAT revenue for the State was already EUR 580 million because of the high energy prices, while you kept the VAT at 21% at that time. So the state is making a profit, even though you said that it was not intended for the state to earn from it and that the money must flow back to the people. If you really want to achieve this, you need to make a bigger, much more ambitious effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u63	This concludes the discussion on the competences of Mrs Van der Straeten. We can start the debate with Mr Dermine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u64	Madam President, the heart of the matter is over. Can it be clarified in what order the topics will be discussed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u65	First, Mr Dermine, then Mrs Schlitz.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to question you for two reasons. The first reason is that there is far too little debate about your powers in plenary. That's what happens in committee. You will intervene there faithfully to debrief. However, this is a very large part of the budget. You yourself made the sum based on a number of expert analyses. It is about EUR 14 billion in this legislature. The second reason is personal. I think you're an interesting politician. You bring ambiance, you are a new star to the firmament, a star that also shines firmly, here in the Chamber, but also in the media. That intrigues me. You are very popular with many members of our group. I would like to put five points to you. Firstly, the question that we and many people ask themselves when they look at the government is who the boss is. I'd like your opinion on that. We see a lot of communications from your party chairman, Mr Magnette, who says that the government is a bit like a Fiat, but that it is not quite clear whether someone is driving. In the major debates in the media and in the Chamber, the big men usually speak, being the party chairmen and the vice-premiers. I note, however, that you will then take the floor as a communicative government voice for the PS. I think that's special. Where Mr. Dermagne is placed in the market earlier as the dealer, you are more the communicator. I would like to know to what extent that is right, how we should see it in practice. I'll make it concrete. The debate on European budgetary rules will be one of the major debates next year, especially with the French Presidency of the European Union. This is also very important for the Secretary of State for the Budget in the context of this budget debate. How will European budgetary rules evolve? How should a number of items be booked? What do we see in your policy paper, in your texts in Parliament? This is dealt with in detail. You're setting the line for the government. When I speak to the Prime Minister and ask whether it is true that Mr Dermine is speaking on this matter and not Mr Van Peteghem, who represents Belgium at the European meetings, he replies that it is Mr Van Peteghem who is speaking. However, when I look at Mr Van Peteghem's policy paper, there is nothing in that file, even though everything is in your policy paper. You're pulling that file towards him, and it looks like that's where you're shutting down the PS line. Secondly, we were told in the press that many working groups were set up in preparation for this budget. Those working groups were chaired. When it comes to investment policy, I would expect Minister Van Peteghem to have chaired that working party, but that does not appear to be the case. That was you and the Prime Minister. Again, I am intrigued by how you are putting that political line firmly into it, and I have not only noticed that. Ik las recent in Le Vif :"There would even be rumors about a possible replacement of Dermagne. Secretary of State Thomas Dermine is ready." These are all mysterious statements that make it appear that you might even assume additional responsibilities in the future. That is my first question, Mr Secretary of State: how should we read it? Should we be with you when it comes to the major political statements or do you refer us to the Minister responsible, Minister Van Peteghem? Secondly, in another article in La Dernière Heure you are called mister investment. You then wrote a pleasant comment on your Twitter: "J'ai toujours rêvé d'être mister quelque choose." It's become mister investment. I don't know if that was your dream when you were little, but at least it's a beautiful title of honor. What is your superpower as mister quelque choose? I like to make it serious and concrete. Europe is coming up with a corona support fund of EUR 5.9 billion. In order to obtain these funds, they must be spent on very specific projects and be linked to a number of reforms. There are two types of politicians: politicians who push away responsibilities and say that others have to solve it and politicians who run towards problems and stick their hands out to solve them. You indicate that you are in that second category. We had an exchange of views on this in committee. If there is a problem with the investment fund projects, you will tackle them and if there are problems with public procurement, you will be ready to join. It is to your credit that you accept that responsibility. In committee, however, you did not explain exactly what is going on with the second part of the European programme. In order to get that money from Europe, we must promise that we will invest it specifically in certain matters. However, we have also had to promise Europe that a number of reforms will take place in the area of labour market and pensions. Is that your superpower, Mr Secretary of State? Will you at last ensure that these reforms are implemented effectively? After all, that is today's question: where are the reform plans? Where are Minister Dermagne's labour market reforms and Minister Lalieux's pension plans? We don't see them. But you will have to answer them, either through Minister Van Peteghem or to the European Commission. The superpower to overrule Minister Van Peteghem is already yours. But we've already talked about that. Thirdly, we would get 5.9 billion, which is far too little, and perhaps a part of that will go away now, says the European Commission. That's what the Court of Auditors says. It is estimated that we will get up to 1.3 billion less. This will only be decided in June, but the European Commission and the Court of Auditors point out that the amount will certainly be less. Mr Secretary of State, how will you deal with that? Do you have an appointment with the Secretary of State for the Budget? Europe expects that when a number of reforms cannot be financed through the European pot, you will take them for your own budget. Have you spoken to the Secretary of State about this? Are there any commitments to this? Fourthly, and this is a more fundamental question - where do you want to jump to? I ask you this question, but it may be even more a question for Mrs De Bleeker. I'm sure I'll put them to her later. How will you define investments? We have had a lot of discussions on this in committee. That wasn't cleared up. At that time I tabled a written question, which you answered very quickly, for which I would like to thank you very much. The answer is interesting. Mr Secretary of State, you wrote that you want a new definition of investment. I quote: 'It will in future allow us to recognise that we are actually making certain expenditure which is often classified as current expenditure comparable to investment. We are, of course, thinking of expenditure on education, pre-school childcare, training." Moreover, it is a matter of regional powers, but it is a matter of course. In any case, you see current expenditure as investment. I would like to know, Mr Dermine, whether that has been passed on to the whole government. In any case, as announced, I will also put the question to Mrs De Bleeker. Mr Secretary of State, the issues you are dealing with, and the way in which you are conducting the debate, actually, it is a question for Parliament - I really think it proves that we should discuss them in the Finance Committee. You are doing a good job in the Committee on Economic Affairs and I would like to see you there, but I would also very much like to see you in the Committee on Finance. A decision on this is up to Parliament, but I would also like to put the question to you, Mr Secretary of State. Are you available to report and follow up on your work in the Finance Committee, because that will be necessary? This can also logically be combined with the debates on the budget, among other things.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u67	Mr Loones, I would like to thank you very much for raising my issues here in plenary. You're a fascinating politician. Your first question was who's boss. I have looked at all the budgetary tables in all directions and I have not found the answer to that question. The government has done a good job and we follow the government's rules. With regard to the specific aspects of the budgetary rules, Deputy Prime Minister Vincent Van Peteghem is responsible for defending Belgian positions at the meetings of the ECOFIN. However, we work together, also with colleague Eva De Bleeker. A government does shiftwork. You call me mister Investment and ask what my superpower is. Now, the superpower of the current government is that we want to bring public investment back to 3.5%. That really is a historic movement. In 2019, public investments stood at 2,6% of gross domestic product. Today, together with the regions, we have enough investment, projects and resources to evolve to 3.5 percent. We have indeed committed ourselves, together with the European Commission, to reform. In our plan of 700 pages there are specific Milestones or targets for each reform project. In our first report to the European Commission, we have already touched on a few targets or miles, for example in the area of taxation with the reform of my fellow Minister Vincent Van Peteghem for commercial vehicles and in the area of telecoms with initiatives by my fellow Minister Petra De Sutter. Your third question was about the amount of EUR 5.9 billion, which we receive from the European Commission. It is true that there is a small risk that we will get a smaller amount from Europe. That will only be known in June 2022. The amount allocated will be based on parameters that are not yet known today. It is premature to assess, at this stage, the budgetary consequences of this possible reduction. Some regions, notably Flanders, have already announced that they will make compensation on the basis of their own budget. A discussion on this issue will take place within the federal government that will make a decision. We have a subject for technical discussion on this subject, but remember that the $5.9 billion envelope was assessed on the basis of the expected growth parameters at the time the SFF envelope was defined, i.e. in autumn 2020. Today, growth forecasts for Belgium are not among the best in Europe, but they are higher than they were in autumn 2020. Our growth outlook is higher than we expected in October 2020. I have the weakness to think that this is the result of the good work of the government, in particular. The Minister of Health, Mr Vandenbroucke, is present. It is known that when comparing the growth of different European countries, the management of the pandemic is an important driver of growth. I therefore see in these projections higher than expected a year ago the result of the government's work, in particular. I would add that tax revenues, mainly for the federal state, will also be higher. A priori, therefore, there are several reasons to believe that the federal government could compensate for any budget cuts. However, I do not want to engage in a discussion that will take place within the government, among other things in collaboration with my colleague here. To answer your question about the definition of investment, there are two discussions to have. Stricto sensu, we must comply with the technical definition of the National Bank which makes a very clear difference between current expenditure and capital expenditure, the latter being expenditure which contributes to strengthening gross fixed capital formation which corresponds to very precise technical definitions. I do think we need to have a broader discussion on certain specific subjects. If the investment is considered to be an expenditure incurred in T0 to prevent expenditure or to earn additional revenue in T+1, T+2 and T+3, then a whole series of state expenditure, particularly on preventive matters, whether on the competences of Justice, the Interior, in the prevention of certain diseases or pathologies, in order to deal with the climate threat, can be seen in the broad sense as investment. I think the best public expenditure is the one we don't make. Today, investment spending on health, safety and climate to prevent future spending is good investment spending. This can be seen, for example, in the case of floods. Municipalities that have invested in water retention or river pipeline infrastructure have had fewer costs associated with post-flood renovations. This therefore illustrates the need to have, in a broader way – beyond the framework of the Recovery Plan – a discussion on expenditures that could be considered investment as they reduce future spending. I finally come to your fifth question. I am pleased to see you and our other colleagues in the Committee on the Economy. I'm also available to come to the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u68	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the answer to the last question. I think we should include this in the work of our Parliament in order to streamline this, Madam President. It's about big budgets. It is important that this is properly monitored. Mr Secretary of State, I said in my introduction that I was intrigued by you as a politician, a new star in the firmament. Your answer to the first question made the star shine slightly less, I have to admit. I'm sorry to disappoint you with my reply. In committee you said: 'If there is a problem with the projects, I will walk there'. I was very pleased to hear that. You also said: 'If there are problems with the public procurement of an investment, I will stand there.' You did not repeat that commitment today, quite the contrary. You simply referred to the trade ministers. I'm sorry about that. If you want to take up your role as coordinating secretary of state, it should be more than sending a report to Europe to tell you what the trade ministers have done. In committee, I asked you what you would do next year. If you just send an e-mail to each trade union minister to ask how far you are going with the projects and then paste the answers into a Word document and send them to Europe, you won't be busy. You said you'd do a lot more. You would really help the ministers to get to work. I really liked that. Today, you say something else. I'm really sorry about that. Then about your superpower. You say that you are going to bring the public investment rate to 3.5 %. You say you will also report on a number of reforms. You also say that a report has already been sent to the European Commission. I would like to invite you to come to the committee so that we can have a debate on this. Mr Verhelst van Open Vld also said that a report had been announced for April, but that they would like to do so earlier. This question is therefore wider in Parliament. I am curious to see whether you are pointing to everyone's responsibilities, including all trade ministers, and in particular Ministers Dermagne and Lalieux. If they do not do their job, Europe will give us less money. Thirdly, about the money we will get less. To rule is to anticipate. We know it'll be less. The European Commission has announced this. The Court of Auditors announced that. We know the mathematical formula on which it will be calculated. We do not yet know exactly the million, or even tens of millions, but we know that it will be a very similar amount. It started at EUR 750 million less, but we are already at EUR 1.3 billion less. We know this is gonna be a lot of money. Then I am sorry that you call this premature dévalué. It's not that premature, it's in six months. There is an important budgetary impact on this. I now hear that this has not yet been discussed within the government. Mrs De Bleeker, you have been warned: there is an additional request to push your figures into the red a little bit more. Fortunately, that is for productive investment, we hope. Unfortunately, it won't make your red numbers any less red. In concrete terms, Mr Secretary of State. I find it very remarkable that you ask about the parameters of economic growth if we are not among the very best in Europe. That's how you put it. I do not know if it was imposed on you, but we are the very worst of Europe! Not I say that, it comes from the analyses we have received from the European Commission and which they have presented here in Parliament. We have received the reports. The tables said that all European countries will grow stronger than Belgium in 2022. The average for the euro area is 4.3 % economic growth, but for Belgium it is only 2.6 %. That's just the lowest part. I am not saying that, it is in the tables that we received from the European Commission and that we can look at. Yesterday I saw in communication from the IMF that the rate of growth for Belgium would be only 1.5 %. To say that we do not have the highest percentage is not only a disguise of the facts, but the factual twisting of reality. According to the European Commission's figures, we will have the lowest growth rate in the euro area as a whole by 2022. The list goes on because we are also the champion of the countries with the highest debts as the only country whose public debt will increase. As these figures from the European Commission show, we are also champions of budget deficits. We belong to the group of countries, the Southern European group - the budget deficit of which will be more than 5%. We're champions of inflation. With the exception of the Baltic States, our inflation will be the highest. This means that life in Belgium is the fastest to become more expensive throughout Europe. And then I haven't talked about the fact that your government is also champion in taxes. Mr Secretary of State, name the cases. That's how that star will only grow brighter. Finally, we really need the definition of investment. After all, you are adding an additional example to the list, in particular the expenditure on health care. I can imagine that the expenditure on prevention is investment, but it is a power of state on which you cannot therefore take a stand. If you're here as federal secretary of state on health care, it's about running expenses. So I have to assume that you want to take some of them into account as investments. This wouldn't just wake me up, but especially you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u69	Colleagues, this concludes Mr Dermine's competence section, which we thank, and we turn to Mrs Schlitz's competence section, since no speaker is registered to speak to Mr Michel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u70	Madam Secretary of State, you will recall that when I discussed your policy paper and the budget in committee, I began to apologize for being a white heterosexual man who also occasionally drives a car to excess of disaster. Some colleagues suspected me of humor, cynicism and even sarcasm when I did. But that's completely unjustified. After all, anyone who knows me knows that humor, cynicism and certainly sarcasm are completely strange to me. I apologized for my sincere concern because I could only conclude from the Secretary of State's documents that white straight men, or should I say white cismen, are the source of all evil in this world. The white heterosexual male, or should I say the white non-menstrung cisperson, is a violent against women, a racist, a sexist and more of that fine. In your policy paper, men were hardly or not seen as victims, unless once, following the Istanbul Convention. That was because the treaty itself states it. Is this some kind of activist jihad against men? I'll leave that in the middle just to be clear. Madam Secretary of State, most of all you spend a great deal of money on what is at most a symbolic policy. I am thinking here of removing sex from the identity card. Then I wonder if that's the first thing the Holebi community is waiting for. I ask myself that out loud, and along with me a very large part of my Holebi friends. A stamp for the LGBTQI+ community is another thing. In the 21st century, a time when even e-mail may already be labeled as old-fashioned, you will issue a stamp for the good of this community. I wonder if that's something this community is waiting for. Does this somehow contribute to the well-being of this community? Allow me also to doubt that again, along with me a large part of my Holebi friends. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State has also announced that the long-awaited National Action Plan against Racism will finally see the light of day. This will also be done in consultation with civil society and the Länder, taking into account all forms of racism. That's where this sentence should have stopped. But he's moving on. After all, the sentence continues with "such as anti-Semitism, aphrophobia, Islamophobia, romaphobia." Apparently, there's a phobia for everyone these days. So it immediately makes clear who is being cast as a victim and who is being endorsed as the perpetrator. That's a certain value judgment. I think that's inappropriate. Why isn't one racism the other? Why is one racism worse than another? Why discriminate on the basis of the victim or even on the basis of the perpetrator? My party has no problem with the fight against racism and discrimination. However, I find it more difficult to combat only certain forms of racism or discrimination. Sexism is rightly combated. However, I find it more difficult to give the impression that a particular gender is being combated. Whether the perpetrator is a woman or a man, whether the victim is a woman or a man, white, black, brown, yellow, red or even purple purple, Muslim, Christian, Buddhist, Jewish or even born on Mars or believes in the flying spaghetti monster, that should have nothing to do with that. Racism is racism, discrimination is discrimination, even when it comes to anti-witracism. It's not all trouble and torment. Flemish Interest is satisfied with your attention to, for example, intra-family violence, a phenomenon that became even greater during the Covid-19 crisis. The virus has acted as a kind of catalyst. I certainly do not want to deny this problem. I do not want to minimize them, on the contrary. Partner violence is one of the most common forms of gender-related violence in Belgium. I have no reason to doubt that statement. However, I have two critical reservations. Firstly, it is at least as difficult for male victims, if not even more difficult for them to go public. I was hoping you'd pay more attention to that. A second thought. Have we ever asked ourselves here in the hemisphere whether partner violence, whether or not against women and/or whether or not against men, is the result of the sex of the victim or of the fact that the victim in question is in a sick relationship? Ladies and gentlemen, it is a difficult and delicate question, but I would like to ask them anyway. What I am saying is that intra-family violence is not necessarily gender-based violence. I therefore call for some caution if we use both concepts interchangeably. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat that neither I nor my party denies the problem. For example, this is why we certainly support initiatives and efforts in this area, such as the awareness campaign or the mobile stalking alert. Madam Secretary of State, as in the case of intra-family violence, women are also victims of sexual violence in an unbalanced way. We are talking about one woman in five, if we can believe Amnesty International. That's a terrible figure. This does not even include the undoubtedly significant dark number of victims who do not talk to anyone about it or even report it. Flemish interest is therefore very satisfied that you invest more in the further roll-out of, for example, the care centres for sexual violence. In this context, it also announces training for hospital and police staff, awareness campaigns and communication actions. These initiatives can also count on our support. A number of Members will also remember that during the discussion in committee I was rather cognisant about Pro Velo*, which, after a huge study, came to the miraculous conclusion that women went cycling less in cities than men. The reasons cited for this were, for example, road safety, the lack of facilities and comfort. Madam Secretary of State, I have already said to you that I did not need a study. I could have told you that, too. Sexism has nothing to do with that. In fact, Mrs Jiroflée accused me of making a mockery of this in committee. She said that she had been in contact with women in the field and that they said that this was the result of insecurity. I wonder why this is the case in larger cities, such as Brussels, Ghent and Antwerp, and not in, for example, an arbitrary village called Buggenhout. Asking the question is also an effective answer. That's the elephant in the room, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly disturbed by the persistent attempt to explain every problem through racism, discrimination, sexism or some sort of phobia, and this is not necessarily the case. As if there were no other causes. As if there were no other causes. The motto seems, like everyone else Famous, to discriminate against everyone. It is up to me, ladies and gentlemen, that there are also men, even white straight men, who behave normally, who are not racist, who do not discriminate, who do not beat their wives, who do not rape women, who even respect women, and even those who love their children. Colleagues, believe me, there are plenty here in the Chamber, there are also men who are beyond the caveman stage. Madam President, the fact that society is being divided into more and more boxes, with the ultimate aim of being out of boxes, requires a number of questions. So let us stop dividing society into boxes, because in the long term we have so many boxes, so many boxes that there will always be someone who feels discriminated against. This will become the problem over time, and everyone will feel discriminated against, but that does not mean that everyone will be discriminated against effectively. No, I do not wish to deny certain problems. No, I do not want to minimize certain problems. Racism, discrimination, sexism and all these phobias undoubtedly exist, and we must do so. But not all social problems can be explained. I cannot get the impression that a certain group of colleagues are persistently trying to explain social problems through racism, discrimination, sexism or some kind of phobia. For the sake of clarity, ladies and gentlemen, Flemish interest is for equal opportunities. Everyone's for that. However, equal opportunities still do not guarantee an equal outcome. That distinction must also be made. Fortunately we are all equal, but fortunately we are not all equal either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by addressing Mr Creyelman. Mr Creyelman, your apologies are not necessary, but your support in the fight for equal opportunities. So may I ask you to use your energy to do so. Your speech earlier was largely a repetition of your speech by mostly clichés, which you have already brought to the committee meeting during our thorough debate, of which I take note. When I hear you say that the fight against sexual violence is certainly important, you are undoubtedly satisfied with the result presented. During the last budgetary conclave, I obtained an annual envelope of EUR 2.5 million for equal opportunities alone. I am really surprised to hear that some people are denouncing the lack of a budget for its implementation, even though this is the first time that a specific budget has been allocated to it. I do not agree with your criticism of symbolic politics. The Constitutional Court ruled in a judgment on the inclusion of the sex on the identity card. The stamp ensures the visibility of the LGBTQ+ community, as requested by the site. Your point about the absence of men is also unfounded. The national plan of action to combat racism covered all forms of racism, and the national plan of action to combat gender-based violence covered all forms of gender-based violence. As you point out, women are disproportionately affected. I would also like to invite you to read this plan and the Istanbul Convention carefully, as it clearly states that all victims will be taken into account, whatever their type. It is a matter of respecting the Istanbul Convention to which the federal government has committed itself with this action plan voted by the federal government, and that of the federated entities, whose action I coordinate, to ensure that Belgium complies with this commitment. You refer to the plan BE CYCLIST, which I developed together with my colleague, Mr Gilkinet. We decided to join forces to facilitate the use of bicycles by women through the organisation of a study day "women and bicycles" based on observations and figures. This is not about sexism. These are simply different habits because of the different roles that can be attributed to men and women and therefore be able to study this division of roles to examine how we can facilitate the use of bicycles by women because the numbers are clear. In Brussels, only about 30% of women ride bicycles compared to 70% of men. If we want to make a real shift modal in terms of mobility, it is necessary to tackle the groups that ride the least by bike. This is a fairly simple and rigorous procedure. I'm concluding. Any budgetary choice is a political choice. This budget tells us that the government will invest more than ever in gender equality, equal opportunities and diversity. There is more budget than ever for the national action plan against gender-based violence. The Institute is finally getting additional resources for all its tasks. Victims are better supervised through the Institute and Unia. Civil society will be better supported, both for NAPAR (National Action Plan against Racism) and for the SOGIESC Action Plan (Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity and Expression and Sex Characteristics). Those are political choices. You may have a different opinion on this. We will never agree on this; your party will never agree with the government, but that is what the government stands for and what I am working on every day. For those of you who think I'm gonna divide society into boxes, I'm gonna clarify my vision. What is good for the most vulnerable is good for most. That's a common thread in my policy. The result of my equal opportunities policy must be more united and more dialogue with no less. I am in favour of a gender-sensitive policy. I am present on the premises as often as possible, everywhere in Belgium. I want to talk to the organisations and stakeholders as much as possible, so that my policy focuses on their real needs. I strive for equal opportunities for everyone and sometimes I have to name things as they are. Are women more likely to be victims of violence? Are women underrepresented in management and management committees? The answer is yes. Do people of colour become victims of exclusion more often? Yes. That's how the list is long. Do I exclude people from that? Absolutely not. It is my belief that doing good for the most vulnerable is good for everyone, for society as a whole. Whoever wants to make me a caricature, go ahead. However, you cannot blame me for naming things as they are and for doing what is necessary to deal with them. If you criticize that, it says something about your exclusive view of society. My goal is a society in which everyone can participate equally. That's where everyone wins.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u72	Madam Secretary of State, you are talking about boutades, but you have just raised a number of them from here to Tokyo about me and my party, about my exclusive view of the world and so on. In committee, I have already told you that you are making a bit of a fool of yourself when you say things like that. In the meantime, I'm sure you'll see why I'm saying that. Despite my Buggenhouts accent, I have said quite clearly that we support the initiatives you are taking in the fight against intra-family violence and sexual violence. I have also literally said that we are very well aware that women are more victims of this. I made that clear. You say you want to name things as they are. Let us then take a look at the initiative you are taking to get more women on a bike in the cities. You are not going to tell me that you yourself believe that women in the cities are less cycling or only less cycling because of a paternalistic role pattern. If that is the case, then together we must analyse the population groups within which it is. We also need to do the analysis together to see if physical safety in cities has anything to do with it. Why do such things not occur in small municipalities and villages in Flanders and Wallonia, but in Antwerp, Brussels, Ghent and so on? We have to ask that question. That's the elephant in the room, but it can't be named. I do not really see that institutional or structural racism. Let me give you an example. There was a lot to do this week about the rather shameful reproach that Vincent Kompany, the trainer of Anderlecht, got thrown at his head. We have all been deguised by that. I don't know anyone who says this was a good thing. Then they say that the supporters of Club Bruges are a bunch of racists. Speaking of a generalization, while it's about individuals. This needs to be addressed clearly, and no one is discussing it. Is that structural racism, however? I would rather characterize it as a total lack of courtesy, courtesy and normal behavior. Those same supporters who have shown this scandalous behaviour, Madam Secretary of State, are applauding and supporting Éder Balanta, an unfamiliar civil societyer of Club Bruges. They are supporting what is probably the best right back of the league, Clinton Mata. They support that for themselves. Is this about racism? No, that's just complete rudeness. Does that make it better? Does that make any sense? Absolutely not. However, before we talk about institutional racism and structural racism among people, we must recognise that sometimes it is about complete peasantry. That's what I wanted to get to, Madam Secretary of State. Finally, let us remain serious. We support your case on intra-family violence and we support you on sexual violence. I would remind you of a small disagreement over institutional racism and structural racism. I would remind you of a number of things that you do not name. And then you, with all due respect, play the grayened record: Flemish interest this, Creyelman that. I expected a little more intellectual honesty from you anyway. Honestly, I'm giving you a chance, and you can give us a chance. That seems to me, with all due respect, not unheard of.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the subject of the Secretary of State, whom we thank and can move on to the subject of Mr Mahdi.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u74	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to deal with a number of points on general policy. It wasn't an easy year for you. Migration is never easy anyway. In my opinion, there has been no easy migration years over the last 20 years, whether it was under Mr Wathelet, Mr Courard, Mrs De Block, under me, or Mrs De Block after that or under you. I think migration is one of the biggest challenges for our Western society. A lot of governments are struggling with it. This government has a particular agenda, which is mainly steered at European level, and is trying to achieve a number of things at Belgian level. Asylum and migration are two separate domains. I'll start with migration. We still have to wait and see what will be achieved on the positive side, but I believe that you are taking a serious approach to the Code on Migration. Behind the scenes, I have heard that real progress is being made. What will eventually be approved after the Council of State has been approved is awaiting approval. However, a certain methodology has been established, money has been released, you have appointed people who are particularly serious and have a great deal of expertise. So I'm looking forward to this. I can support the way you handle the code. I tried this, too. Mrs. De Block bit her teeth on it. I bit her teeth on it, too. After all, I wanted to deal with this internally with the Legal Service of the Foreign Affairs Office, but it was understaffed. I wanted to involve the world of NGOs and civil society as little as possible, because my experience with migration shows that, if you do, left-wing to extreme left-wing positions are always very important. That's why I didn't want these actors around the table. You have taken another option, or you may have been forced to do so by your partners. I may never know. Now these actors are sitting around the table, but you have appointed two professors who come together very intensively. It is likely that an egg will finally be laid that we will look at in Parliament. We didn't do anything? Yes, you do. I have submitted the part 'family reunification' here in the Chamber as a Member of Parliament. The hatch'return' and the hatch 'visa' are ready and I will submit it here in the Chamber. But not everything got around. Family reunification was the most important thing, and we worked hard on it. We'll put those things next to each other the day you come up with your law book. Secondly, the Council of Foreigners' Contests, the RV. I understand from the first chairman, in a hearing last week, that this year's backlog has been halved on the French-speaking side, from 8,000 to 4,000 files. Those are fantastic numbers. I didn't know that. I had to listen twice. When I was Secretary of State, there was a backlog of about 30,000 files, enumerated in Dutch and French. I was able to lower that to about 20 000 to 18 000, then it rose back, because there was a European asylum crisis with many professions. Under Mrs De Block, the figure fell back to about 10,000, there were also more judges, staff and attachés at the time. I understand that we now have about 4,500 files behind us, which in itself is an achievement. It is important to know that the influx is now very high, so there will be a lot of professions in the coming months. We must therefore be careful that the delay does not increase again, so you have come to Parliament with the request to designate additional judges and attachés to ensure that we can catch that wave. In itself, that is a good thing, although I'm still hungry. We must ask ourselves whether the government's constant response to providing more staff is efficient and therefore the right choice. I also asked the first President last week if it was really necessary for him to have so many judges. He left the answer in the middle, but I had the impression he wasn't. He can't lose you, of course, because he's very loyal, and very competent, by the way. But the question can be asked. I've always suggested a workload measurement at the RV. Moreover, I think that the Justice Department should definitely take workload measurements at all its levels, which should be almost automatic. That has not been addressed, but it remains a point of criticism on our part which you undoubtedly have some ears for. However, you will now have those judges, Parliament has given its consent. A second good point is the evaluation that is finally coming, at the request of the RV. You've come up with a bill that was very similar to my bill, which was written by them. The bill was passed, the bill was voted down. That's a little bizarre, but I know how that goes. The respect of purple-green for the opposition is a long time ago. That was Kristof Calvo's dada, but that man seems to have disappeared completely from the stage. However, this evaluation is in itself a positive point. The third positive point, additional staff, the strengthening of services. It's necessary, and you're working on it. You say you have 4,000 or even 7,000 candidates. This is very good for a public service, because everyone is looking for staff, both private companies and public services. One of your colleague Verlinden's major problems is that she can't fill out the police vacancies. The vacancies are open, there is money, but there is no staff because there is a huge cut in the labour market. Apparently, that's not a problem for DVZ. I asked you a question about this budget, but you did not answer it. When we look at the budgetary tables, we see that the budgets for the CGVS and the RVV do not increase. For the RV there will be statutory judges next year and for the CGVS there will be a lot of people, including protection officers, but this is not reflected in the budgetary tables. The only thing rising is the DVD's budgetary table. My question was very specific as to whether it would be redistributed. I didn't get an answer to that. That's a technical matter, but I'm just wondering. Perhaps you could explain something today. There will be additional staff at DVZ, the return services, the visa section and the family reunification section. That seems fine to me, and I hope that these people will be effectively recruited and can stay. One of the budgetary problems with which I have always struggled is that one gets a budget and recruits people, but that one does not get budgets when they leave because they find another job or retire. So they have initially had a boost of staff, but over the years it is rapidly falling. My question to Steven Vandenput, who was then Minister of Civil Service, was how we could solve that in a good way, how we could get that money back when those people were draining out. I never got an answer to that. At that time, we were in a much stricter budgetary carcan than this government, but I am convinced that the mechanism applied by the FPS Finance and, above all, the budget will ensure that, even if additional staff have been recruited, this will be reduced over the years. I'm just giving this as a wise advice. I believe that we must be very vigilant and ensure that we still have budgets for replacements and retirements in the next few years. That's one of the big problems. You probably know this. You should check with the services. We recruited 30 or 40 people at the RvV. Over the years, however, there were 10 fewer people. They think they have done well as Secretary of State because they gave extra budget so that they could recruit people, but 3 or 4 years later 10 people are gone. I am not satisfied with the asylum crisis. I'm sure you won't get enough for that. I think you need to negotiate much more with the private sector. You really need to involve them to make those places possible. The Court of Auditors was extremely critical of your budget. I do not think it is intellectually fair to provide EUR 100 million through the commission. Finally, I really wonder how you will increase the return, Mr Secretary of State. You now have a pressing policy. I really don't believe that. That's very naive. The essential point is the European Asylum Pact. You really believe in that. You think this is gonna solve the problem. You still have to convince and many Flemings how the European Asylum Pact is going to ensure that we finally do something about illegal migration to Europe. I don't believe that. I don't see that at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u75	Mr Secretary of State, we have had a very busy agenda in the Committee on Home Affairs over the last few weeks and months. We have been able to debate a number of very important issues in detail, such as the Council for Foreign Affairs, the CGVS, but also the hunger strikers have been extensively discussed in recent weeks. Today we also discussed the asylum crisis and the crisis in reception, which is actually a real mass migration crisis to this country. I refer to the arguments we raised at the time. For a general, broader discussion of your policy, I would also refer to the extensive presentation I made when discussing your policy paper. Today it is about your budgets and more generally about the increase in the budget for the staff and the operation of the services. We hope, of course, that the increase in the budgets will translate into better results, as far as my group is concerned, especially in terms of the results of your pressing return policy, as you call it. We are looking forward to this, but we are also looking forward to it with the necessary scepticism. Let me go over everything. As far as Fedasil is concerned, we are looking at a slight decline compared to last year. It is difficult to grieve for this, and the reception of asylum migrants in this country costs more than enough. Do you therefore expect us to see a reduction in the asylum crisis in the coming years and to see a reduction in asylum rates? We're questioning that, aren't we? As far as closed return centres are concerned, you must of course refer to your colleague in the Buildings Regie. We will also ask questions about this. The appropriations for the costs of repatriation and removal of persons considered undesirable were more than doubled in the 2021 budget, but for next year they remain roughly the same. We wonder what efficiency gains you still want to make there and how you want to ensure that budgets are better deployed to lead to more results. Let us hope that we can eradicate Corona a little bit, so that great efficiency gains can be made in this area. An expenditure post that is slightly increasing is that for projects to prevent illegal migration. We are wondering why this is actually happening, even if it is not a huge item of expenditure. Could you give us a little more explanation? In addition, you will increase the staff of the CGVS and the Council for Foreign Affairs. We then wonder why the budgets for statutory and contractual staff were not included. For the Council of Foreign Ministers we read on page 199 that 63 new staff will be recruited. The new furniture was budgeted, but the higher budgets to pay those extra people, we don't immediately find. Maybe you could explain that for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u76	Mr Van Langenhove, we have already talked a great deal about the budget, also in committee, of course, but there has actually been an incredible trick. You say that the asylum budget is falling: it was initially budgeted at EUR 427 million for 2021 and goes to EUR 423 million for 2022, a decrease of EUR 4 million. Actually, that's not right at all. The problem is that there is an additional EUR 104 million that is a fourth amount of money entered through the commission. The asylum budget is therefore rising by a quarter, by 20% to 25%. And then there is another EUR 35 million, of which the Court of Auditors wonders what that sum is for. I asked that question in committee, but I did not receive an answer. The asylum budget is therefore not falling by EUR 4 million, it is rising from EUR 427 million to EUR 527 million, plus EUR 35 million, of which even the Court of Auditors cannot determine its destination. So there is a huge increase in the asylum budget. The increase is difficult to read, but thanks to the Court of Auditors can still be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u77	Of course. The real migration bill is still many, many times larger than what is included in the budget. If we look at the broad impact of migration, the real cost to society, but also to the budget in the broad sense, to facilitate and organise mass migration and to cope with its many negative consequences, we are talking about a budget that is more than ten times larger than what is in the budget. We have repeatedly argued in favour of an extensive investigation into this issue. After all, we would like to have a debate on the basis of the facts. You argue against fake news about migration, but we beg for more facts and more figures and for an investigation into the real cost of migration. This time we don't want to miss out, such as the NBB's investigation, where extreme cherry picking was done in order to be able to send out a press release that shows that for a very specific group in a very specific time system there might be a small profit. A purely economic profit, because other things are not considered in this country. After all, this government does not look beyond its own nose. That particular group might be able to raise a few euros. All other cases are not dealt with in that press release. That's what we're gonna do. We want a real debate, based on the real figures, and so we ask you to calculate it. So also take all policy areas into account. Perhaps you could discuss with your colleagues at the Inter-Ministerial Conferences and other consultations on the cost of migration in the area of justice, security, education, the housing market and, indeed, I would like to address the green colleagues - for the climate. Through family reunification alone, every year we get as many foreigners as there are in a city the size of Dendermonde or Roeselare to this country, with all the pollution it causes, because they take over the Flemish standard of living and consume and pollute as much as the average Fleming, which of course has an impact on the climate and on the environment in Flanders. The Greens argue for a concrete stop, let's first plead for a migration stop. The worst consequence of mass migration is, of course, the huge negative impact on social security. At open borders, there can be no open social security, but in this country we have both, even though that will not be long. Unfortunately, these consequences were not adequately quantified, and we hope that this will happen in the future. Then we will finally find out what the actual migration bill is, an invoice that is passed over and over again to the common man and woman. In times when we have to find in Pepinster and in the flood-stricken regions that people literally and figuratively stand in the cold, that a lot of Flemings and Walls get into energy poverty, that we look at a huge inflation wave that will shrink people's savings, that huge numbers of entrepreneurs and self-employed people languish away in corona poverty, I find it terrifying that the migration bill, which no one has asked for, certainly not in Flanders, continues to grow. The government can then apply accounting tricks in the budget, the man and the woman in the street will see that the migration bill continues to rise, especially under this government. However, asylum and migration could be a huge area of profit rather than the huge expenditure that it is today. Investment in asylum and migration can be huge if we really want it. There are huge opportunities. Every euro that we put into sound derailment campaigns or forced return is a euro that we earn back in the long run. For example, how much does illegality in this country, the estimated 150,000 or perhaps even 200,000 illegal immigrants or perhaps more, not cost to society? If we invest money to finally tackle illegality properly, it will bring enormous benefits, not only for society but also for the budgets of this country. You have long argued in favour of speeding up procedures, but we have still not seen enough in this respect. This can also be of benefit to the Treasury, but of course you have to stick to it, and you and your government often go wrong. You must bear in mind that when procedures have been completed and those concerned receive a negative response, they are actually detained immediately and returned to their country of origin. Only then can you earn large profits with migration policy. The migration code, as already mentioned by the previous speaker, can also, if properly implemented, bring about efficiency gains and reduce the necessary budget for asylum and migration. The condition is once again that you provide a clarification, not a relaxation of migration policy. The government agreement, which we have discussed in detail in the meantime, contains a great deal of relaxation on migration. For example, residents are not included in the government agreement, illegal immigrants with children cannot be expelled from the country and there is still insufficient use of readmission agreements and the removal of 200,000 illegal immigrants. On such matters, we can see that the government is still not serious about asylum and migration policy, which means that the large profits that can be made are still literally and figuratively left. However, by reducing inflow and increasing outflow, we can make huge savings in the area of asylum and migration. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate here goes beyond that on the budget, and that is never wrong, because Asylum and Migration is an exciting department, and much to discuss. A few questions and remarks surprise me, particularly those on the need for structural solutions. I can only agree with that, because the need for structural solutions is a reality. It is a pity that we have to make a great deal of effort today on matters that could have been dealt with a while ago. For example, I am pleased to hear that Members welcome the fact that it is finally being done. The services, in particular the Foreign Affairs Service, Fedasil and the CGVS, have already done some internal exercises on the migration code, but politically the choice was never made to make it a priority. Mr Francken, you want to keep the NGOs out. I'm in a crisis of reception, and I realize that sometimes there are NGOs that have differences of opinion. Fortunately, this can be done in a democracy. But they don't necessarily have to be the enemy. Some organisations that are more internationally active, such as Caritas, have in recent years started to think a lot about migration. I am referring, for example, to the return policy. Ten to fifteen years ago, it was unthinkable for Caritas to discuss return. Today, Caritas is one of the most important international organisations that participate in voluntary return. Caritas tries to do this in the right way, by guiding people and helping them build a sustainable future in the country of origin. If one deals with each other in a respectful way, perhaps not with everyone, not always and not everywhere, then there are organisations with which one can sit at the table and who have the best interests with the department. As far as the Council of Foreign Ministers is concerned, the delay has indeed been partly overtaken. You referred to the disciplinary and sanction mechanism. You know what I'll tell you when you talk about the N-VA bill. The RVV has been asking this question for some time, even during the previous legislature. I fully understand that other priorities were set at the time. Not everything can happen at the same time, but it just didn't happen in the previous legislature. At the time when a new government was created, a bill was quickly tabled from the RVV. The major difference between your party's proposal and our draft is that our draft, which was also produced through the RVV, has been submitted to the Council of State. The Council of State has made four observations. We have taken these comments into account, so that the government's draft was better than the initial draft that had been on the Bureau of the RVV for some time and thus on your desk. It is a good thing that additional staff, including at the RVV, will be provided, including a temporary framework. That temporary framework will be evaluated. It will be examined whether this temporary framework achieves the desired ambitions. If this is not the case, the temporary framework will have to experience the consequences. In particular, the combination of additional staff with the disciplinary and sanction mechanism provides a good balance. It is not just a question of having more staff; it is a question of ensuring that there are sufficient staff; it is also a question of ensuring that everyone who is recruited or already employed can be properly monitored. For example, we are sure that judges who are appointed for life also effectively do what they are paid for by taxpayers. You asked about the budget for extra staff. You have said twice in committee that you would have liked to have the budgets that we have today and that you used to have a different logic. That is the choice this government has made. I have just followed this up during the general discussion and will come back to this later with colleagues from Flemish Interest. They were wondering what CD&V has gained in terms of additional resources. This government has decided to invest in the security departments, such as the police. The Department of Home Affairs and the Department of Asylum and Migration are departments for which the government has chosen to invest. The additional resources in my department are a total of EUR 100 million by the end of the legislature. These are additional resources that are not just a one-off but structural. It's going to be 25 million in 2020, 50 million after that, and we're going to build it up to 100 million. Whoever is my successor, he or she will be grateful to this government for the fact that the means will be available to achieve the political ambitions effectively. That is what it is all about. Mr Francken, if you could have had those budgets, you might have recruited additional staff. We must, of course, make a political choice. Fortunately, this choice has now been made. It must ensure that we also save in the long term. We all know what happened during the previous legislature. The opinions about who has done what to save on the CGVS may differ but the reality is that there has been savings on staff at the CGVS. At the end of the legislature, we had fewer employees in the CGVS. This also means that there are fewer people who can deal with asylum seekers' files. This in turn means that these asylum seekers are longer in a reception centre and are waiting for an answer. This leads to saturated asylum centres and the need for additional reception places. So that's an extra charge. If we have enough POs to deal with the files, we will get faster answers and faster withdrawals from the reception. In this respect, therefore, this also saves money. As far as asylum is concerned, there are certainly challenges. Measures need to be taken for both inflow and outflow, but perhaps I can say more about this later. You made a comment about working with the private sector. Especially in times of crisis, and especially now during the Christmas period, we must do everything we can to ensure that everyone has shelter. We must not leave anyone who applies for asylum on the streets. So, working with the private? Sure. I don't see why we wouldn't. Perhaps you're referring to an article in Time? The private sector said there are places. I invite them, as I have done several times. I've already sent you e-mails. If there are any suggestions in the committee, I would be happy to hear them. What I do not like to hear is something you have not said, but what I have heard a few times elsewhere, namely that working with the private sector is by definition better. I don't know about that. At least it's not better for the wallet. The cost of care in the private sector is higher than with Fedasil or The Red Cross, that is the reality. I will be the last to be dogmatic in that, but the cost of care is slightly higher in the private sector. It is only in times of crisis that we must do what is necessary. Cooperation with the private sector must certainly be a part of this. I'm a little surprised to hear you say you don't believe in the pressing return policy. In fact, you say that you do not believe in the Bossuyt Committee and in Professor Bossuyt himself. That committee has made it clear that one of the aspects that needs to be addressed is a pressing return policy, because the return policy is today limited to a piece of paper, with the text you have 30 days to leave the territory. Then we may happen to meet these people, somewhere at a station, and try to act in a different way. The Bossuyt Committee says in one of the many points it lists that it needs to be addressed. I believe this is true. Is that blissful? Is that the solution to everything? No, of course not. In that respect, I do not think anyone here in the Chamber is naive. We all know that it is particularly difficult to conclude return agreements with the countries of origin, in times of covid more than ever before. We know that Europe needs to show its teeth, and fortunately it is starting to do that bit by bit. Just think of the visa sanctions that can finally come about, to find countries that do not want to participate in what is ultimately their international duty, to reclaim people who do not have the right to reception and to the status of international refugee. It is important to at least succeed these people or to ensure that the government does everything in its power to make that succession possible. Isn't that gonna happen? Then take note of that and go to the next measure. Work is also being done on this. Finally, Mr Francken, you say that I am convinced that the European Union will solve everything. I will be the last to think that a solution will be found at European level. I am also occasionally cynical about the European Union in this respect. I might be able to tell you a secret. After my studies, I took a few months internship at the European Committee of the Regions. I ran away pretty fast after that. I did so anyway because of the European Committee of the Regions, apart from the entire bureaucracy of the European Union, where everything is going very slowly. However, the reality is that we are members of the Schengen area today and either we accept it or we do not accept it. It would have enormous economic consequences if we questioned the Schengen area. In this reality, at European level, we must ensure that our hands are beaten up and we must try to achieve a stronger policy together. Is that simple? Will we get there? No, that won't happen one-two-three. However, I must try to push my European colleagues in the right direction, in order to ensure a return policy that I do not have to negotiate with colleagues in Morocco, and then see the 26 Member States do the same for their own nationals. I must ensure that when someone arrives in Greece, Spain or Italy, he or she is screened at the external borders of Europe and not travels through five to ten European countries to arrive in Belgium. Is it easy to convince those countries of that? No, that is absolutely not easy. The migration pact has been under negotiation and has been difficult for years. We have taken the first steps in this respect. Europe must therefore be pushed in this direction in order to move in the right direction. Can Europe solve everything? Yes, it is possible, if Europe finally realises that it must, above all, understand that the partners are within Europe and that we must respect and recognise each other in this respect. Europe must also understand that we must strengthen the external borders together and that the frontline states must know that they can count on us in this respect. It must also be understood that we expect something in return. However, the whole debate on solidarity and responsibility is known by the members of the Committee on Migration. However, it is important that we push forward on this issue. After all, I like and enjoy complaining about Europe, à la bonheur and between pot and pint, but I also have to push to ensure that we solve the problems in the field where 90% of the impact is felt by us. I will continue to express my frustration about this at European level, but I must also have the courage to come up with solutions. Otherwise, I don't have to do politics. There were questions about Fedasil's budget, whether it's falling or not. It's actually a lot lower. We work with a prognosis model. People don't know 100% of what it's gonna give. People depend on abroad, especially outside the European Union. It is important to take that into account. That is why we need to be able to use the interdepartmental commission, if necessary, to switch to a department that will always have a bit of a question mark somewhere. I can never predict exactly how many people will be at the Little Castle tomorrow. I can't. No one can. We need to make it more predictable by pursuing a European migration policy. In the meantime, however, there is also a need for a policy using the IDP to be flexible. We need to be able to lower the budget a little bit. Partly this is done by investing in personnel. Mr Dirk Van den Bulck of the CGVS said the day before yesterday that 14 more men will be added in January. Before February, I can't remember the exact number. Anyway, there's gonna be staff. This is being fully trained at the moment and will ensure that procedures accelerate. In any case, that will be important not to ask for additional resources. Nor have we asked for any additional resources this year. I have just followed the general budget debate with one eye. The colleagues of Flemish Interest were surprised that there will be no budget for Asylum. Maybe that's a new point of view. At least that has attracted my attention. Mr Van Langenhove, the cost of repatriation has remained stable. An important aspect must certainly not be forgotten. We often talk about Europe and what Europe has or sometimes does not have. We must not forget that European investment, especially from Frontex, also at Belgian level, in relation to repatriations from Belgium, is not a bad thing. We can increasingly count on the support from Europe and Frontex to contribute to the costs of return policy. How can we make this even more efficient? For this, the European Union is needed in an ideal world, but in the meantime we must continue to negotiate a return policy with countries of origin at Belgian level. Corona should not cause any more nuisance and the refusal of PCR tests should not be used as an excuse not to return. I have asked the Foreign Affairs Office to work on a draft law that should make it possible to continue to bring about a return, even though there remains a great question mark over what the countries of origin are doing. If certain countries shut down their entire airspace because they are afraid of corona, or even certain groups, that puts us in a very difficult situation. If we want to do that, we must dare to take sanctions further at European level than just for Gambia. That is what I discussed at the last European Council. Gambia is the first country and should not be the last. With countries that do not accept their responsibilities, which are governed by international law, namely the inclusion of their own nationals, we want to sit diplomatically around the table. If this is not to be taken into account, Europe must be able to do what needs to be done to demonstrate at geopolitical level that Europe is a warm continent that welcomes people who really need protection, but also a continent that can effectively return people who do not need protection and who have arrived here and who are illegally staying. Otherwise, the whole asylum and migration policy will be in complete trouble. It doesn't help anyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u79	You say that you have received an additional EUR 100 million, that the security departments have all received more money and that the next governments may be satisfied that additional resources will be added. That is correct, but the budgetary discipline that existed under our government is simply not there right now. EUR 15.5 billion will be in the red next year, actually EUR 16.6 billion. That's initially budgeted. If that goes completely wrong with corona, it might be a multiple. That can be explained by the circumstances. That is, of course, the case everywhere, but there is also a very large structural factor in it. Your budget is structurally out of order. The IMF states that Belgium, under unchanged policies, will structurally have the worst budget for the whole of the European Union in 2025, regardless of corona and one-off expenditure, even asylum budgets, because in an asylum crisis, of course, the people who are due must have a bed, which is legally required. So one must take it with a huge grain of salt if you are trying to unpack here with the extra budgets for the safety departments. Het is juist dat socialists love the crisis. Paul Magnette said that during the negotiations. I thought that was fantastic. You spend a part of your money through corona, but there is also structuralally a lot of extra deficit budget in it. That was not the choice of the Swedish Government, but it was the choice of this government. (...): (...) Yes, but not 15.5 billion euros. (Theo Francken laughs loudly) I will be the last to defend extra money for the security departments, but the budget is completely out of order. That is the problem in Belgium, and the question is when is it going to be dealt with? We believe that a confessional model creates more responsibility in the system. That is a solution, but I will not start with your party's opinion on it. We propose a different model as a solution. I'm coming to Europe. You claim to have run away from the European Committee of the Regions because you did not want to become cynical. I hope that you never will, because then one must stop politics. I really hope someone tells me to stop if I ever get cynical. However, we must look at the European Union with a very critical eye. There is no will in the southern countries to keep the border closed so that the people there follow the procedure. There is no will. I do have some contacts, although that is more at NATO level, with a lot of people who belong to the Greek government parties. They really agree to try to keep the border closed, but they also want to forward everyone who comes in as soon as possible. They don't want those people on their territory. Greek public opinion is tired of that, because it has been going on for ten years. So they let people go on. Italy is doing the same thing. That's a completely hypocritical game where everyone sends the migrants to each other. Then, of course, we will have a dictator like Lukashenko who says he will fly them in and send them to us afterwards. The Eastern European countries simply don't let journalists in anymore. Within a 5 km radius of the Polish/White-Russian border, no journalist can enter. No NGO can control anymore because the people are just locked up. What are we doing? In a few years, border guards will start shooting at migrants. They'll shoot the boats. That will be the result of this policy. It's gonna be so cynical in the end. This does not fit in with the model of the European Migration Pact of rapid screening and rapid return if they receive a no. They can't be removed. They can't be screened quickly either. After all, they're gone before they can be screened. They do not want to stay in these countries either. They want to move on to Western Europe: Germany, our country, UK and the Netherlands. Countries where there is work, where there are many people of their nationality who know them and where there are sufficient social services. That is the reality. One can repeat that 100 times. We're gonna screen fast. That's fake news. The biggest fake news about migration that I hear is that we're gonna quickly screen them and send those who have been rejected back quickly. One cannot screen them quickly and one cannot send them back. So we have to go to another model.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u80	Would you like to conclude, Mr Francken? Other ministers will be discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u81	Certainly, Madam President. We have to go to another model or paradigmashift. I have a solution for this, especially the Australian model. You say you don't believe in that. However, we must continue to talk about this until we get out of it. If this can become the position of the Belgian government, we are allies. But this just can't work. We've been hitting a wall for 20 years and we're making the system ourselves....As Mark Elchardus writes in his book 'Reset': 'The system of the open asylum border and the Geneva Convention will eventually be destroyed by mass fraud and human trafficking." We almost got there. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u82	Mr Van Langenhove, you are not wearing a mouth mask. If you don't respect the rules, you won't get the floor. It is not the first time we have made a comment about the mouth mask. We must always make comments on this. It doesn't work. You don't respect the rules. So I will not give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u83	Madam President, we agreed to allow Mrs De Bleeker to be the last to be addressed, but do we follow the protocol order for the Vice-Presidents? [[Assent]] Okay, thank you. We're going to follow the protocol order. The Prime Minister was present earlier and spoke on numerous occasions. We are starting the debate on Mr Dermagne's powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u84	Minister, we have already had the opportunity to debate these issues (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u85	Mr Van Lommel, you are not on the list of speakers! If the sessions were a little shorter and a little more respectful of each other, this kind of incident would not happen. You have to run to have a minister or to have a Member of Parliament who speaks! Some quit without warning. It's starting to take a long time! It's 1:30 and we've been sitting for hours! It is always a pleasure to meet and hear these debates which have not taken place at all in committee and which we do not repeat from year to year! I'm sorry, but life is complicated in these budget debates that go beyond limits! Mrs Moscufo has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u86	Mr Minister, as the President has said, we have had the opportunity to discuss in committee various topics relating to your competences. I would like to take advantage of this night session, which has selected a few themes, to ask you a few questions about the cultural sector. The budget for the cultural sector fell by 24 million (from 75 million in 2021 to 51 million in 2022). This decrease is one third less, while we believe that this sector needs money because it has suffered from the health crisis which is not ready to stop. You said that you wanted to extend the crisis aid, particularly with regard to the facilitation and extension of access, for technicians, to the status of artist. When do you intend to do it and until when? We urge that this aid be extended, at least until the new reform of the Statute comes into force. With regard to this reform, you explain in the comments on the social security budget that it will enter into force on 1 May. Until then, I'm sure you won't be holding your arms together. We hope that, by then, you will open the concertation, even if you have already done so because apparently it was not satisfactory on the part of the actors on the ground. The criticisms of this milling were quite heavy in relation to your first proposal - I would say even harsh. We also hope that, by then, you will integrate the social partners better and more in time. Because we have received the recent opinion of the NTC and its criticisms are also important. I'm quoting a few of them. In particular, the NTC states that your proposal is rather vague and unencrypted. We share this fact quite well. The sector needs a better view of the future impact of this reform. What is the forecast of the number of workers who will thus have access to this status? We also need to know how much this will cost and, above all, whether the means will follow. There are also a lot of questions about the new committee that you want to set up, with an expansion of its tasks and powers. Is this commission, which will be judge and party, not likely to be a problem? Another problem is the dispersal of culture-related skills at different levels of power. For example, the federal authority is responsible for regulating the status of workers, while the Regions are responsible for financing or providing specific assistance in the event of a crisis. We call for a reflection on the federalization of part of the culture, so as not to put workers in competition with each other. Experience has taught us that when it is, it is often pulled down. Also with regard to the reform proposal, several collectives point to new discrimination against, inter alia, women, with an increased risk of precarisation. I will also mention a few examples. Women are the least likely to have access to paid employment in this sector and will therefore have the greatest difficulty in maintaining their rights. They are also the majority subject to co-habitant status and will therefore be the first affected in case of non-renewal of the status, with obviously small allocations to the key. Moreover, the disappearance of similar days will result in these women being unable to claim maternity leave for the opening or maintenance of their rights. These are the discriminations which are pointed out by the various committees and which also challenge us. We therefore want to remain vigilant in this regard as part of your new reform. The second point is that there is a shortage of jobs. We had an entire discussion on this three weeks ago in committee. We have been able to explain our thesis that the problem is mainly for us the shortage of quality jobs on the one hand and the reluctance of the majority of employers to play the game of training on the other. We come back to the subject because a new study by the FGTB confirms our thesis somewhat. Employers do have a responsibility for the shortage of jobs. This study, which looks specifically at job offers in the south of the country and in the sectors in need, explains very concretely that many employers are far too demanding. In the service title sector, for example, almost half of job advertisements require each worker to have a personal vehicle. For bakers, 80% of offers ask these workers to have an experience. It's a little the same thing every time: you have to be both young and have experience. There are also many employers who are reluctant to grant quality jobs. For example, nearly eight out of ten offers offer precarious contracts for masons. Many employers do not disclose wages in advance. Seven out of ten offers for domestic aids thus give no indication of remuneration. The reason for their silence quickly becomes evident, knowing that on average these women, since they do not work for their majority on a full-time basis, reach 1,170 euros per month. I would like to take this opportunity to convey to them, on behalf of our group, all our solidarity. The service securities sector is one of the few to negotiate still within the sector – since it is a sectoral negotiation – the negotiations are therefore really difficult. There have recently been a number of actions. We really regret that you, as Minister of Employment, put the bosses in a nice chair, with, among other things, the famous maximum 0.4% for the wage increase. You prevented the unions from negotiating freely. This, of course, encourages the bosses to arrive arrogantly at the negotiations. We also regret that you have installed them in a beautiful chair, not only in terms of wages, but also in terms of the organisation of work, with the policy you call with your government, "the flexibilisation of the labour market". On this occasion I will quote you again. This seems important to me because it will have important consequences for the world of work. The first thing is that you, as a socialist minister, have set up a liberal project. We know that now, since during the debates, the representatives of your party absolutely said that they were against it. But I imagine that the compromise has led to the fact that in fact you have implemented a liberal project, namely to make people work four days a week without any reduction in working time. This will lead people to work more than ten hours a day, not to mention that, if they work Monday to Thursday, they may get a call from their employer on Thursday night asking them to work overtime on Fridays. You have also put things in place so that these overtime hours can be even more numerous than before. That's for the first work flexibilisation measure! It is somewhat disturbing when we know that this year we celebrated the eight-hour day, which is the result of years of struggle that ended in 1921. It is interesting to see, after all these years, that a famous step backwards. The Vivaldi Government stresses that this measure will apply on a voluntary basis. To imagine that the voluntary basis will really be one is to ignore the reality of the world of work and the complicated relations between workers and employers. We know the number of unemployed workers waiting behind the door and the blackmail that the bosses are doing about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u87	Mrs Moscufo, may I ask you to conclude?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u88	I finish with the problem of night work. Your government has structured what the Michel government has not dared to do, specifically in e-commerce, when we know that night work is severely damaging to health. In this House, we have the opportunity to work at night twice a year, but it is not in this way that the number of long-term patients will decrease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u89	There are important things in life, Minister, such as the budget and labour market reforms, but there are other important things in life. That is why our group colleague Mr Anseeeuw has decided to continue the debate with you in committee, which he will do with great conviction and enthusiasm, as you know him in the meantime. So we will not intervene here in plenary this evening and continue that discussion there. That way, hopefully, we can shorten this evening for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u90	Madam President, Minister, we, as Flemish Interest, were not aware that you actually had special reasons not to be here today. Your presence here tonight shows a deep respect for Parliament, for which we thank you. I will try not to make it too long, we have already spent a lot of hours, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, with the numerous ministers and secretaries of state for the economy. That is why I would like to confine myself to one topic today, which is the most important issue at the moment. We are currently experiencing turbulent times, not only in the field of health, but also in economic terms. We have taken a number of important measures to make companies survive and ensure that people can maintain their jobs structurally, because unfortunately there is still corona poverty today. In January 2020, when the virus was still far away, I stood down here asking the then Minister of Economy a question about the coming economic problems caused by corona. At that time, there was no problem. After that the economic standstill came and six months ago I repeatedly made a number of statements about inflation, because at that time the lights were on orange. We saw indeed that the re-upstat gradually overheated the economy. You replied that there was no problem and that inflation would stop at 1.6 % this year. I saw ghosts at the time and found it strange that the FPS Economy cannot make a different assessment. Soon afterwards, the spill index was exceeded, and it will be again soon. The simplest way to solve a problem is to deny that it exists, as is well-known. There is also the Dehaene principle: problems must be solved only if they do arise. But of course it's too late. We see we're losers in Europe. We are faced with a raw material problem, with the supply of materials. Elsewhere in the world like Asia and America, that seems to be less of a problem. Even China is particularly smart in tackling the crisis by producing goods with higher added value in order to boost its economy. Mr Minister, I was actually the first to ring the bell in Parliament and I am sure that soon there will be colleagues in the hemisphere who will pretend to be inventing hot water and never know that inflation is on the way. Now you look away and Secretary of State Dermine has done so on the committee. The European Central Bank is still looking away. I can only conclude that you are not facing reality. Anyone who gets shaved must of course sit still. As interest rates rise, the public debt increases considerably. Perhaps that is why you prefer to do as little as possible in this matter. Earlier this year we talked about container prices and raw materials. According to the Socialists, rising container prices are a created scarcity. I fear that the world economy will not be understood. The debate on energy prices shows that supply cannot follow demand, which further increases prices. According to you, it is not a problem and the high energy prices are only temporary and it will all pass. The national consumer price index tells us that last month, November, inflation rose to 5.64 %. The European Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices (CPI) is 7.1 %, but you do not think there is any problem. In the United States, President Powell of the Federal Reserve says that high inflation will be permanent. That is what we are saying, because what is happening in other world economies speaks volumes. In your opinion, however, there is no problem, because you are again telling us that purchasing power is protected by the automatic wage index. This was also the only concern of Mr Vanbesien: the wage index would solve all the problems. There is nothing wrong with the competitiveness of our companies, because they have the same problems in neighbouring countries, and these high energy prices are only temporary. That's it. That's it. That's it. Mr Minister, energy is driving inflation into the air. That will remain the case for the time being and the green changeover will certainly not change that. Secondly, companies at the beginning of the chain will not pass on inflation. In terms of supply chain, there is something like a bullwip effect, where something starts at the beginning of the chain, but is systematically delayed until it finally reaches the consumer. There is, therefore, no doubt that there is still a great deal to be done as a result of inflation. As far as automatic wage indexation is concerned, it is necessary, but it will ultimately lead to new inflation, which will also be passed on. We already know that companies will have to pay an additional EUR 7.5 billion next year as a result of this inflation. We are at risk of falling into a wage price spiral, which will then have an impact on the competitiveness of our companies, because wages will rise faster than in our neighbouring countries. If you are so concerned with the people's wallet, what do you do about the problem that the money in the savings books loses in purchasing power? In a year's time, 20 billion euros of savings have evaporated. Then one has saved up for old age and one has to supplement the poor pension with the money from the savings account, which then suddenly is worth 5 % less. That's very acidic to establish. Minister, one cannot just stand by and watch without striking. We can't run away from the problems. Two weeks ago, I found your answers pretty flou here. I believe that there are solutions to deal with this problem. Firstly, we can start with tax cuts on wages and energy, for example. That way we can break the wage price spiral. In this way, workers can survive more net without gross wages rising. At the same time, we can also maintain our competitive position and do not suffer any disadvantage over our neighbouring countries. Secondly, reduce the load on energy. This has a positive effect on families and businesses, because today's inflation is being driven by high energy prices, among other things. If we want to slow down inflation, we can do it that way. That's another reason to intervene on the energy bill. What's the alternative? Don't do anything? Then we have the highest inflation across Europe. We will then continue to slow down our economic growth, even though we are not doing so well in relation to the other European countries. Then prices will continue to rise and we will even end up in stagflation, Minister. We really need to avoid that. Combating inflation is much more than a wage indexing alone, Minister. This means that we must dare to protect the purchasing power of our families. That means we can't just look at what other countries. We cannot wait for the European Central Bank, because we have already given up our monetary policy in the past. There's nothing we can do about the interest rate. We can't limit money creation either, because we don't have that power. We cannot accept that you are looking the other way and that our people are further impoverished. I think you are setting the wrong priorities. You're Minister of Economy. Do something about it and don't let our people stand in the cold.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u91	Ms. Moscufo, Mr. Van Lommel, thank you for your questions and questions and even your remarks. First of all with regard to the cultural sector and the aid measures that we had to reactivate last week to support the sector following the decisions taken by the Conciliation Committee, I can tell you that these are the same arrangements that were applicable this year and that they will be extended until the end of the first quarter of 2022. This includes easier access to the status of artist, the possibility of cumulating copyright income and the allowance paid under the status of artist, the calculation favourable to artists which allows for an increased allowance and the consideration of certain white periods. These were aid which the sector requested to reactivate and extend. With regard to all the aid schemes decided by the government, we have planned – in any case in the context of the situation we are experiencing today – to maintain them until the end of the first quarter of 2022. I now turn to the issue of reforming the status of workers in the cultural sector or in the arts sector. You know that this is an important reform that has been expected for years. You also know that I and my government colleagues, and in particular Frank Vandenbroucke and David Clarinval, wanted to build this reform in consultation with the sector(s). I say "sectors" because we know that cultural activity is diverse and varied. We have worked together with these sectors because we wanted to embrace the different professions of artistic creation in order to be able to set up with them this evolution, this reform of the "artist status". I use the expression for the sake of simplicity, but we have the will to extend to more beneficiaries this new "artist status", which will probably receive another name in the coming weeks or months. We have therefore worked together with the sectors and have co-built with them. The first thing that has been agreed upon is the way forward. The one chosen by the various sectors is an improvement in the status of artist as it exists today, i.e. a derogation from the unemployment benefit scheme. That is why the supplementary budgets, namely the EUR 75 million, have been accommodated in the departments for which I have the honour of being responsible today. We wanted to build on the budgets available within the ONEM, which are complementary budgets, since these are 75 million additional recurrent euros, as decided in the framework of the government agreement and the resulting budget tables. Why 24 million euros less in 2022? Because, in view of the consultation and the various opinions that have been sought, the process takes a little longer than expected, in particular because the National Labour Council has asked us for an additional time to submit its opinion. As you have said and I fully acknowledge, this opinion is somewhat critical of the institutional architecture of our country – I am not going to open the debate here at this almost undue time. Indeed, the National Labour Council, or in any case some of its members, has pointed in particular to the dispersion of competences and the fact that different levels of power intervene in cultural matters, specifying that this does not simplify things. I have my idea on how to simplify the distribution of cultural competences, but I do not think it is time or time to discuss it. However, unlike you, I do not think that re-federalization is the best way to work and move forward on this issue. The issue of artist status needs to be addressed at the federal level. That is what we are working on, but, as I said, it takes a little time. There were 75 million in the budget for the entire year 2022. With the entry into force of this new status scheduled for spring, we have decided to reallocate EUR 24 million to other needs but without having a negative effect on the beneficiaries of this future status. These future beneficiaries, through their representatives, will continue to be consulted in the implementation of this new status. We will, of course, take into account the various comments, in any case some of them, some of which are probably not part of the reflection that is being carried out at the moment. I am thinking in particular of the question of the distribution of competences from an institutional point of view. This goes beyond the concern of modernising this status. On the other hand, some questions have been asked, which deserve to be answered or somewhat amended on the basis of these comments. The issue of trades in short supply is a complex issue facing our country, but it is not the only one. All European countries, and even the Western countries, are faced with shortages, critical functions (bottleneck) in the labour market in different sectors. However, in Europe, the sectors affected by these shortages were before the coronavirus crisis and are probably even more so now. These are often the same sectors. The health care, horeca and construction sectors are considered, to name but three. Shortages are known in these sectors beyond our country, which does not prevent us from proposing measures, reforms to try to combat these shortages as quickly as possible. We know that we need arms, brains and know-how in the health care, horeca and construction sectors. I am convinced that this requires an improvement in working conditions. This is why the various measures mentioned to combat shortages in the labour market include measures concerning working conditions and training by mobilising and strengthening the sectoral funds devoted to them. This also requires an improvement in remuneration. I think that the current shortages mean that in a number of sectors employers have to offer better wages and better working conditions. It also goes – and this is a fight that I wanted to wage here and at European level – through a change in the minimum wage. A few days ago, we took a historic step at European level with the adoption by the European Council of a position, on the basis of a Commission proposal, to move forward on the minimum wage. We have also fought in this House for the social partners to reach an agreement with an increase in the minimum wage, which will be spread over time and whose first effect will take place on 1 April 2022. This is important for those working at the minimum wage and also for the other occupational categories that are just above it, which was seen in other sectors where sectoral agreements were concluded some time ago, drawing on what had been done on the minimum wage and referring to it to increase remuneration in other sectors. I come to the two points that you have raised in a more critical way, namely, flexibility and night work. First of all with regard to night work, we have not decided to substantially change the rules as they exist today. We have decided to submit to the social partners elements of reflection on evening work, which is different, and this does not deprive them of the possibility of having to regulate evening work as well as night and weekend work. Collective agreements have been concluded and others will be concluded to regulate their conditions and remuneration. Nothing in our agreements or decisions challenges these important principles. Evening work and night work are required in a series of functions and sectors, but they must be supervised and properly remunerated and be subject to significant recovery times. As far as flexibility is concerned, the proposal to ask for the possibility of five working days in four days remains a proposal which will be made to the social partners by asking them to give us an opinion on how to frame this possibility. This must be left to the workers while being supervised. This will never be a constraint and it has always been our view. Mr Van Lommel, I am Minister of Economy, but I am not an economist. I'm just a modest lawyer, for which I apologize. For statistics, I base myself on estimates and figures from Belgian and international institutions, such as the Federal Planning Office, the National Bank of Belgium and the European Commission. I have never said that inflation is not a problem. I have never said that the increase in energy prices is not a problem. However, it is not a specific Belgian problem, it is now an international problem. Very clearly, I never said that there were no difficulties. I have said that at some point the projections are those and, I repeat quite modestly, I am just a lawyer and I usually rely on the estimates, the projections that are made by the institutions recognized for this work. At the time of your questioning, these institutions were not particularly concerned about the situation, but I remain, of course, attentive to this development. Inflation is not always a problem, especially when one has a large public debt. This makes it possible, by mechanical effect, to ensure that this debt burden is proportionately less large and less difficult to bear for a State such as Belgium. However, I am very concerned about the last point you raised, in particular the saving of our fellow citizens. Indeed, we must ensure that our citizens' savings are guaranteed. But we also know that in Belgium we have a particularly high saving rate, which is probably too high in relation to capital requirements to finance investments, whether public or private. It is also a challenge for this government: to be able to mobilize public investment, we did, - you had the debate earlier with my excellent colleague, Secretary of State Thomas Dermine - we must also mobilize private capital in order to be able to invest in public infrastructure and projects, but also in support of the private economy. This is the work we are doing with the government as a whole, particularly with our colleague Vincent Van Peteghem. I will conclude by saying that the current situation is worrying in terms of inflation, in terms of energy prices, in terms of the shortage of a whole series of raw materials or, it is related, to the increase in the cost of these raw materials. We must pay attention to this and continue to take measures to limit the impact of energy costs on households and businesses. We have done so with the social tariff, with the Gas and Electricity Fund and with the energy standard, which provides for limiting the increase in energy costs, particularly for a wide range of companies. Over the next few hours, we will have further discussions on the issue of energy. We must also continue to safeguard the purchasing power of our citizens, and this goes first and foremost, in our country, by maintaining automatic indexing of wages and allowances. It is a Belgian specificity, but it is, I think, today envied by a number of countries. Moreover, in countries where the automatic wage indexation system does not exist, the increases negotiated in the various inter-occupational or sectoral wage agreements are agreements designed to compensate for the effects of galloping inflation or, in any case, too large. In our country, on the other hand, the social partners – and especially the workers' representatives – do not have to negotiate these increases and can therefore concentrate on other issues, including the issue of working conditions. It is, moreover, Mrs Moscufo, and I shall end with that, one of the stumbling blocks of sectoral negotiations in the securities and services sector. It is not so much the ability to negotiate or the wage margin that presents difficulties, but rather the working conditions, including the reimbursement of travel expenses, in my view. There you are, Madam President and ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u92	Minister, it is no shame that you are not an economist. I'm an economist, but it doesn't matter. You can be assisted by economists who speak with knowledge. You can take this into account in the composition of your cabinet, among other things. These people can give you the necessary signals. I follow the global economy closely and look far beyond what is happening in Flanders and Europe. There are signals that make me very concerned. That's why I'm saying we haven't seen the last one. That is also why I first interviewed you on this subject months ago. I wanted to warn you about major problems. Secretary of State Dermine is an economist. With him I also had the debate in committee on the policy papers. It is a great pity, then, that he claims that inflation is temporary, whereas it is not. After all, there is going to be a permanent inflation. You may not have said that there is no problem. I may have misspelled that. However, you have underestimated the problems. I have said this before, both in committee, in plenary and in the discussion of policy papers. You also mentioned that energy prices are driving inflation into the air. That is why you have worked on the social tariff for energy, but that in itself has no impact on inflation. The inflation basket does take account of current energy prices and not so much of that social energy tariff. For example, if you change the VAT rate, it will have a direct impact on that inflation basket and you can tackle that inflation. You say that inflation is not always a problem because it has a positive impact on public debt. That's correct. The weight of public debt will thus decrease. My concern with regard to inflation today concerns mainly the families who are seeing their savings evaporate, this year alone for EUR 20 billion. You say that we have an automatic wage index, which is positive and which I naturally support and not question. However, I note that this system does not exist in our neighbouring countries, such as the Netherlands and Germany, and that the indexation is being delayed. As a result, we have a temporary competitive disadvantage over other countries. We're certainly not gonna solve this problem tonight. I will certainly come back to this in the coming weeks, so that we can have the debate in committee. I believe that the debate is certainly necessary and that you need to take important measures to deal with the reduction of inflation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u93	Minister, we disagree on all kinds of issues. I will not repeat our point of view, but we will return to committee. With regard to service titles, yes, you are right, most of the discussion now focuses on transport costs. However, you deny the consequences of your wage margin, because I don't think you understand it. This sector is still not easy to mobilise. It is not like a large steel factory where a general assembly can be held. It is not obvious for these women to mobilize. Nor is it obvious for union delegates to go and meet staff. The actions they are capable of doing are already exceptional. They have no choice but not to put the wage increase on the table and in their claim book. You are responsible for this with your decision, whether you want it or not. We will return to this point, because there is also the whole question of the 14 euros of the time when we think that it is the social movement that will move the lines. As Minister of Employment, you can also play your part. We will come with concrete proposals in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u94	Mrs. Moscufo, thank you. This concludes the thematic debate on the competences of Minister Dermagne. With no more registrants for Minister Van Peteghem, we can move on to Minister Gilkinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u95	Mr Minister, at first I had not been put on the list of speakers for this thematic debate, because we had already had several exchanges of views, following the government statement and then twice in committee when discussing the policy papers. So I doubt that we will be able to add many more enriching things. As far as we are concerned, I could also summarize it very briefly. There were a lot of announcements and there is some uncertainty about the financial situation. In general, my earlier speeches meant that you promised a lot or almost everything in the plans you announced in your policy papers on rail, air, water and road safety. I will not repeat the list of these plans. Having taken note of the budgets in the budget tables, the questions raised by the Flemish Interest Group broadly amount to two elements. The first question is how you will realize all this. In other words, how does technical implementation take place? The second question is the means by which you will achieve all this. As I pointed out, there is some uncertainty about this. I congratulate you for bringing in 250 million more of the billion that fell within the Vivaldi government. This was announced with a lot of cheering, but when looking at the budgets and during the discussion there appear to have been other elements snowed down that may lead to savings. In any case, you give with one hand and take with the other. You certainly do not succeed in providing us with transparency or clarity in this area. It was to your credit that you admitted during the debates that you do not have sufficient financial resources and that you will therefore have to look for additional financial resources in order to achieve all your plans. Without these future additional resources, many of your plans may turn out to be empty promises afterwards. Minister, as an opposition party, we should be critical. So forgive me if I tell you that the Flemish interest doesn't just go along with a good news show full of announcements. We will not judge your policy on the basis of the words you speak or write down, but on the basis of the concrete results and achievements. Deadweight, that's what this is about for us. With regard to rail, the model for your strategic vision of 2040 is still being studied. The new management contracts with both SNCB and Infrabel are still to be concluded. During the committee, the Flemish Interest warned you about the danger of overshooting. The changing work organisation, with the structural incorporation of telework, may be permanent. The reality is that it is not impossible that in the next few years we will be faced with the consequences of the corona pandemic. That crisis may not be over yet either. Already, or still, the occupancy rates of the trains are low.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u96	Your plan to stop two trains every hour in each station............................................................................................................................................................. There is no doubt in my mind that this will be the case. Therefore, I do not believe that your view of mobility, which is entirely based on ecological principles, will lead to your creed that mobility is freedom. On the contrary, the former freedom, in particular that of the motorist, is under increasing pressure under your policy. I will briefly go into the list of expectations that we, as Flemish Interest, want to see realised. I am not going to list it in full, but I am going to draw out three concrete elements that are very close to my heart and my party. The first element is accessibility for everything and everyone, in every sense, in every area within the railway, in stations, on platforms and in trains. So I am talking about accessibility in the broad sense, not only physical accessibility, but also access to websites, tickets and so on. No one must be excluded in any way. As a second element, I would like to mention the way in which you will increase personal safety in rail transport, both for passengers and for staff. I am very pleased that you have included a passage in the policy paper this time, which was not the case in the past, but the discussions in committee have made me little wiser about what is going to happen in practice. Finally, I would like to mention the creation of additional rail links and rail connections, both in terms of freight and passenger transport. As a Limburger, allow me in particular to advocate the opening of Limburg, together with the file on the cross-border rail link between Hamont and Weert, which I have often harassed you with. To conclude, the Flemish Interest has heard a lot of words from you so far, but you will, as you have said, take account of your actions. We are particularly looking forward to your vision of 2020-2040 and the management agreement to be concluded. So this policy paper on mobility, with the corresponding budgets, has not yet convinced our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u97	Madam President, Minister, mobility is very close to my heart. Good mobility is crucial both for the thousands of workers, for travellers and for our climate. We have already wasted a lot of words on the budget. Is it 1 billion, 1.5 billion or 1.7 billion euros, I don't know, what is it? However, my colleague Van Hees has requested the budgetary tables from Mrs De Bleeker, Secretary of State for the Budget. In these tables we see just less money flowing to the railways than before. In concrete terms, this is a saving of EUR 21 million for SNCB and Infrabel in 2022 compared to this year. You count every penny spent on the railroad, as an investment, but a compensation for corona loss is not an investment. Repairs to rail, free train tickets and money for late maintenance are neither investments. Money from the EU recovery plan is a source of investment for the Vivaldi government, but that is wrong, because you count yourself rich with other people's portfolio. You keep saying that you invest more than ever in rail, but in practice it is quite different. For example, 44 counters are closed at train stations, trains are abolished, rail services are centralised and substation chiefs are removed. Cleaning personnel are outsourced, security services are phased out, staff can't take all vacation days and there's too few staff. All these things have only one cause, namely savings. The aim is to make SNCB and Infrabel more competitive. We do not agree with this form of politics. However, the staff had a lot of expectations in you, Minister. The staff are actually deeply disappointed. A lot of people are leaving SNCB now. We hardly ever saw anything like this, because those who used to start with SNCB continued to work until their retirement, while we now see a lot of people leaving the sector. What is required of the staff is therefore not nothing: irregular working hours, vacation days, weekend work, shift work, and staff are increasingly confronted with violence at work, an increase of 56% in the most recent three quarters. More than 1,300 employees have been affected by violence and aggression. The train escorts have to play more and more police officers, and that provokes aggression. Think also of the closure of the counters. There is one important measure to this problem, Minister. There must be additional staff at SNCB and at Securail. The railroad police are almost completely spared. The rail budget is a mess. Not all the elements are listed in this budget. This means that we do not always discuss the same figures. We are talking about EUR 1.5 billion, or EUR 1.7 billion. You simply count every euro spent on rail as an investment. It's like heating a house. Who heats his house with fuel oil, maintains his home and provides his family with comfort, but that is not an investment. That's just making sure they have heating. Who has a budget for a heat pump, who can invest. That's what we call an investment. In other words, you provide the SNCB and Infrabel with fuel oil, and you reduce winter after winter the number of liters delivered, and that is what you call an investment. You oblige them to lower the thermostat, and that is what you call a good climate policy. The reality is that the operating budgets under the Vivaldi government continue to fall. Especially Infrabel needs to tighten the belt, in such a way that passenger organisations such as TrainTramBus and Navetteurs.be are concerned about the safety of the rail. But also the staff. I have spoken to train drivers who told me that the recommendations of the Buizingen Committee can no longer be respected because there is insufficient staff. You should be very concerned about that, shouldn't you? The railway operating budgets are far too low. The track is turning square through this. Infrabel must again save EUR 94 million on its running costs by 2024. Infrabel itself had an ambitious future plan, estimated at an additional EUR 3 billion by 2026. We're a million miles away from that. Then, three quarters of the investments announced go to rail freight, which is also the explicit request of the VBO and the private railway companies. You will therefore see that there is a renewed investment in the private sector in particular. I'd also like to give you something about the reception at the stations. You know that we tabled a resolution a few weeks ago, because the issue is important for the future of the railways. Human contact is not something of the past, as some claim. Services for everyone is not something from a distant past, but is the future of the railroad. The outcome of the discussion was therefore disappointing. Vivaldi plus N-VA have managed to ban even a vote to obtain written opinions on the proposal. Groen-Ecolo, Vooruit, PS, CD&V, the liberals and the Flemish nationalists refused to hold the debate. We wanted to hear travelers' organisations in the committee as well as civil society organisations, trade unions, organisations working with people with disabilities and local authorities, in which mayors opposed the closure. We wanted to hear all the organizations and institutions mentioned above in committee, to see how we could do something about closing the points of contact. However, that proposal was rejected by everyone. If the service in the stations is no longer in line with the wishes of the passengers, new services should be sought instead of abolishing services. That is our view on the points of contact. Minister, you yourself say that no one should be left behind. You suggested it that way. No one is to be left behind. In this case, you must ensure that passengers are provided with sufficient support and assistance to be helped. Another point I want to touch is freight transport. You want to double rail freight transport by 2030. That is your objective. However, it goes by the way of subsidies. You know our position on this. That is not a good thing for us. This would be much better in government hands. Lineas is the biggest player. It owns 70% of the market, but still needs seconded staff from SNCB to run its trains. Lineas had to prove that freight transport performs better under the free market. Today Lineas is in over his head in debt. To dampen the debt well, it even sells 4,000 wagons and 109 locomotives of its own flea, and then rent them back. This is a fiscal trick that Verhofstadt already used, resulting in even greater debts. That was in the time of ABX Logistics. With the subsidies you provide, companies like Lineas pay the top wages of managers and lobbyists. You continue the policy of subsidy ring, without questioning or evaluating it. Do you not make an assessment of the past period, with how much money has already been spent on the private transport of goods? So we do not agree with this subsidy for the private sector. The railway infrastructure is now in the hands of the State. We have a public train company. It is therefore logical to also benefit a public freight company and to put it under a single structure. That would be a modal shift, with one CEO, one board of directors and one vision for our railways. A second point concerns the night trains. That's another thing. You're going to spend two million on that, that's not so much, that's a small pot, but that's money going to private. I traveled with the night trains myself, when I was young, with the mutualities. That was in the hands of the government, that worked fantastic. Since the privatisation of the whole sector, the number of trains and night trains have gone downhill. One final point is about the flight tax. It was entered in the 2022 budget for an amount of EUR 30 million. From 2023 that will be 40 million euros. In other words, the flight tax will work so well that more people will take the plane in 2023 than in 2022. We now hear that the flight tax would be between EUR 2 and EUR 10 depending on the flight. A tax of a few euros on air travel while not even an alternative is being developed is a flat tax increase. We don't say that. That's what transport economist Dewulf says. I would like to remind you that today a Diabolo fee of EUR 11 has to be paid back and forth to travel by train to the national airport. In other words, if you go from Zaventem Dorp to the airport, you have to pay more than the flight tax. That's absurd, isn't it? Some workers with temporary jobs also have to pay for this. We are not arguing for a higher flight tax. We are in favour of lifting these Diabolotaks. That would make more people take the train to the airport. Why doesn't the government introduce a flight tax for the private jets? That way the rich would pay instead of the ordinary people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u98	Mr Toventos, Mrs Vindevoghel, thank you for your questions and for pointing out the railways and trains during this nightly session. You know this is very important to me. Mobility is a freedom and with this government the train will become the backbone of the mobility of the future. As far as necessary, I repeat that the resources for the railways will not be reduced. On the contrary, they will increase. I shall come back to that in detail. I have already said it in committee, but I repeat that the amount of resources is one thing, but the way they are used is also important. I work both with the NBMS and with Infrabel on an optimal allocation of resources, with dynamic debt management - paying interest for nothing serves nothing - and with as well-oriented investment choices as possible to achieve impact as quickly as possible. Providing the railway companies with sufficient resources is one thing, which is also well allocated is another. The aim is also to generate new own resources. More passengers on trains, more freight, more rail trains mean more revenue for SNCB and Infrabel. It is the modal shift that we want to achieve. We should not look at things in a static, passive and pessimistic way, but rather in a dynamic, proactive and optimistic way. I'll come back to the resources. That's a legitimate question that always comes back. In order for trains to run, we need a lot of resources. I would remind everyone that the Belgian railways have suffered systematic disinvestment in recent years because they have been regarded as a budgetary adjustment variable. That is no longer the case, they are now a priority. The previous government had decided to save more than EUR 2 billion in total for the period 2015 to 2019. Our government has clearly made a different choice, we want to make the railway the backbone of mobility in Belgium. Since the government took office, I have been working to reverse the trend of recent years. The budgets for 2022 of SNCB and Infrabel were approved by their Management Board on 6 December and 30 November respectively. For example, Infrabel can use the new investment funds granted by the government, for example in the ports of Antwerp or Ghent or in axis 3 Namur-Brussels and Namur-Luxembourg, to make the track more robust, and SNCB can implement its transport plan for 2022. This provides for a structural increase in the number of trains. Since last Monday there have been more than 1,000 additional trains on working days, especially in the S-offer around the major cities of Brussels, Antwerp, Liège and Charleroi. That's already a sign of the change that's been made. The corresponding allocations are included in the expenditure budget for 2022 with a distinction between the OpEx or operational expenditure and the CapEx or investment expenditure. For SNCB, the OpEx amounts to almost EUR 500 million and the CapEx EUR 587 million, which amounts to more than EUR 1 billion. For Infrabel, the EUR 462 million OpEx and the EUR 1 billion CapEx, representing a total of EUR 1.5 billion. From the start of the legislature, we have also committed EUR 1.7 billion, first EUR 1.5 billion, but now EUR 1.7 billion, because we have added new resources, in addition to the regular allocation for rail. That amount covers both the compensation for covid and the floods. You say that this is nothing, but it is very important, because SNCB has certain fixed expenses and it has to cover them with fewer people on the train. We do this out of solidarity and for the continuity of the business. I don't like that for nothing. For the whole of 2020, we have granted covid compensation, as well as compensation for the floods that have forced repairs to the railways. That's a cost of 68 million that was also covered by the government. There are also means for sustainability, for a night train. These are the resources I have found for 2022, for the implementation of SNCB's transport plan. In addition, new investment resources will be created. The European Recovery and Resilience Plan provides EUR 365 million. The new resources I have requested and received from the government during the last budget conclave, EUR 250 million, have been invested in the accessibility of stations, electrification and also in the link between Limburg and the Netherlands. There is now a government in the Netherlands and we can therefore negotiate the continuation of the track until Weert. Investing throughout the country in the transport of goods is an important goal for us. Investment is being made in more accessible stations. There's gonna be a change. These investments are as necessary as they are useful, because 1 euro invested in the railways will bring up almost 3 euros for our economy, directly and indirectly. In addition, EUR 1.7 billion is high on top of the structural resources of SNCB and Infrabel. That's not nothing, but it's not enough. 'Cause I got a lot for the train. I'm still looking for new resources in Europe. The needs are enormous after years of disinvestment. It's not over, either. I'm only a little over a year away. Since the beginning of the parliamentary term, I have been working to reverse the trend of recent years. This government has clearly made a different choice than the previous one. Rail is important for our economy, for our mobility, for the environment and for the employees of SNCB and Infrabel. I am committed to a positive future for our rail network, as for the other parts for which I am responsible as Minister for Mobility, Aviation and Road Safety. I remain available to Parliament, with great ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u99	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have given an overview of the financial situation and we will look into it further. Time will show what will come of the many plans and promises. I'd like to hear how excited you are about the Hamont-Weert connection. We'll see. Mrs Vindevoghel, I didn't want to interrupt you earlier, because I didn't think that was necessary. However, I would like to refer very briefly to the point of contact. At first you claimed that the Flemish nationalists would not have supported you in your request for advice on the point of contact. I do not know who you call Flemish nationalist or not, I leave that to you. You then said that everyone had rejected the proposal. Honesty then commands us to say that the Flemish interest and Défi's colleagues, through Mrs Rohonyi - who deserves credit, even though there are not here at the moment - have supported you in this. Even criminally, we have even advocated hearings. I just wanted to correct that. A little intellectual honesty is okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u100	Minister, we will see how things are going to go. We see that there are a lot of problems in practice. Staff are not satisfied and travelers' organisations are not satisfied, because there are many things that are not going well. We will follow up the dossier well in committee. I'm not comfortable with it, because we belong to the people that things are not going well. There are too few staff and you want more trains, but there is a lot of staff needed by train! How will you do that? You already have shortages and too few people. You didn't say anything about the flight tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u101	The contribution of the people taking the plane is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. He's gonna be here in a few minutes. You can ask Mr Van Peteghem any questions you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u102	We do not believe that this tax will pay anything, nor will that tax between EUR 2 and EUR 10 reduce the amount of traffic. There is also no alternative for the people. Our proposal is a tax on private jets. This is how people are allowed to pay with money and not the ordinary people. Something must also be done with the diabolotaks. To take the train from Brussels, one has to pay 11 euro more by the diabolotaks. When I was in the union, we were protesting. You should remove the diabolotaks instead of working with the flight tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the debate on the budget as regards the powers of Mr Georges Gilkinet. We will continue our work by starting the competence section of Deputy Prime Minister Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u104	Minister, it is now December 2021, about two years after the first infections with the new coronavirus were detected in Wuhan, China. We are therefore facing a health crisis for almost two years with consequences in many areas, not least in the area of health care. There's never been so much talk about our health care system as in the last two years. A great deal of effort has rightly been made to give the healthcare sector a financial boost. However, we must ask ourselves whether that is enough. Is what is needed to make our healthcare sector really more effective? We must also ask ourselves whether we are stronger now and whether we can cope with unforeseen circumstances, whether we are more flexible and resilient. Did we learn lessons after the first wave and what did the workplace teach us? What suggestions have they been able to make? What have we learned from the second and third wave, when was the debriefing actually about it and what lessons have they taught us? I fear that the reality is that there have been no debriefings with the healthcare sector at all. There wasn't every time they were together after every crisis, after everything they've been through. Of course, they were busy and then it's not natural to make time for feedback. However, it is essential to do so to ensure that we do not again face the same problems in the next wave or crisis. So there have simply been no debriefings, no lessons learned. This is also clear from your policy paper, which states that initiatives will be launched to learn lessons. In the future, then. The fact that someone dares to write that shows that its urgency is totally underestimated. It also states that studies will be launched to investigate cooperation between residential care centres and hospitals and to identify the CBRN risks for hospitals. That's good, but the real field study has happened, to our shame and shame: for the fourth time again, in the fourth wave. The lessons that should have been learned there, those findings, must be anchored, but that is left behind. The first line and our people in the hospitals know best what it takes to be flexible and ready. They can teach lessons, even on a platter. All the government has to do is listen and accept its responsibility. Your responsibility, because it is not just the science or solidarity that you are so keen to refer to, that is to help us out of this. There is also such a thing as ensuring a resilient health policy. That is your task that you keep forgetting to mention. For the preparation of the crisis, please refer to the Corona Commissioner, but at the same time his position will disappear according to your policy paper. The tasks are gradually transferred to your public service. However, we've been guessing whether your government is sufficiently capable to cope with a health crisis. A specific review of the crisis approach appears to be taboo. We do not read a word about how to ensure that we can move quickly towards a crisis occupation of institutions and services. The healthcare system has never been so much in the spotlight as it is today, but our people in the care sector have never felt so alone as they do today. I would ask you to appreciate them and listen to what the experts, from nurses to highly specialized doctors, can teach us. You promised me a plan for hospital funding. According to an interview in Knack, that plan should have been completed a month ago. However, we have not yet seen it and we do not read about it in your policy paper. However, some things have to be done. Belfius publishes figures on hospital funding. We may, of course, wonder why we always have to wait for a bank's figures to get a look at the financial situation of hospitals. According to these figures, the hospital sector is generally very difficult, but is now masked by the Covid-19 advances. In addition, there is a lack of care. A normal operation may not be until tomorrow. It is striking in this Belfius study that there are very large differences between hospitals. The specific local Covid-19 context can of course play a role in this. According to this study, organisational aspects also play a major role. That needs to be properly investigated. All hospitals have had a hard time, but why is one hospital more stress-resistant than the other? What lessons should we learn from this? Why didn't you make that analysis yourself? They are essential things that can make the difference between staying up and going down. What has been the role of e.g. telemedicine or the use of medium care beds? Already in the first wave it was clear that not so much the beds were the bottleneck, but the staff. I have asked you several questions about a structural screening of infections in healthcare staff. This is important to keep an eye on the employability of our medical forces. I never got an answer to that. Why didn't we start with targeted training of doctors and nurses so that they can be used for intensive care? In the first wave, that need was clear. Why wasn't there ever a search for places to evacuate patients once that was justified? Why has no further thought been given to switching centres? In the first wave it also immediately appeared that there was a big problem with real-time data for a continuous accurate overview of the occupancy of the beds and staff. That too has still not been addressed. Why can't administrative tasks be passed on to temporary relief workers in times of crisis? This applies to primary care, it also applies to hospital care. Nurses and doctors should be able to clear their hands for the patients when it is all hands on deck. All these things make our care and our society resilient. There's something a government can do about all these things. Why didn't that happen? Why do we still read so little about this in your policy paper? It is a crisis that points to pain, but which should above all be the starting point for improvement and reinforcement, so that we can reap the benefits of it in peacetime too. And, of course, Minister, we would have liked to have read a little more about the desirability of bringing prevention and health care to the same level of policy. The fact that these matters should not have been separated and that this separation is disastrous for the health budget and for the right triggers, I believe that in the meantime almost every group agrees. You know where we would like to see health care organized, but we would also like to hear it from you: how do you see it? We particularly wonder which elements will play a part in making a real decision. That something is needed, we all know, our budget must be well spent. Preventive policies must be used to the maximum, so that we can actually work on health rather than health care, as you yourself always say. In this way, care will continue to be affordable in the long term. Thorough reforms are essential if we are to continue to offer our health care, which is of top quality, to all our fellow citizens. This isn't a file to keep pushing away. Here too, you must dare to assume your responsibilities, not in the name of political or ideological preference, but in the name of our public health and its sustainable affordability. So, Minister, we have been able to read a lot in your policy paper. But I would have liked to have more information on how and when you will make healthcare future-proof.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u105	Minister, we do not read much in your policy paper on the financing of social security. There are only three reports on funding, including that we will ensure that the system will remain affordable in the long term. This is what ministers have been proclaiming for decades, but there is little evidence of the least attempt at structural strengthening of social security income in the many measures proposed. Apart from a loose idea about abolishing cafeteria plans. Even the intertwined regulation of expats appears to result in a lower yield of around €17,5 million. The system was completely distorted by the corona crisis and the systematic increase in benefits when expenditure was further derailed. It seems logical to me that we should ensure that the system remains affordable in the long term. There is therefore an urgent need to take measures to protect our social security. Moreover, the Court of Auditors is very critical of the state of affairs and abstains on the federal government's accounts for 2020. It's a reprimand that can count. It is said that the previous comments have already been left to the left. I would also like to mention the problem of reception parents. The shelter is already cracking into its joints and an evaluation has been made which is further discussed internally. That's what the reception parents have to do. It is becoming problematic because in the absence of childcare, one of the parents will have to stay at home and not be able to work which will have financial consequences. The use of this dossier is therefore very large. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you nothing new if I say that the press is sometimes informed before Parliament itself. One of these difficult dossiers is the favourable RSZ regulation of professional athletes and all the facets around it. There's been a lot to do about this file. The coalition agreement was fierce. The unfair system would go on the shovel in its entirety. Your first strike didn't make it home. In the context of the budgetary negotiations to address the favourable RSZ regime for professional athletes, only EUR 43 million was eventually registered. One pack less than the 200 million euros you've spent on in the press. Your colleague, Minister of Finance Van Peteghem, decided to provide a maximum of EUR 4 million in tax subsidies for the clubs instead of a maximum of EUR 12 million in tax relief per club. That's a triple. That's another blow in the water. Moreover, these tax subsidies should be provided for youth training and infrastructure. In that context, may I ask for transparency to be called for. It was hardly the case in the past. The government barely knew what the money was spent on. In the present circumstances, great sacrifices are being made of our people. Many people will feel the rise in energy prices very hard. I therefore think it is more than fair that this unfair system should be addressed and that the strong shoulders should contribute the most. As far as social fraud and social dumping are concerned, we see a lot of similarities with the note from your colleague, Mr Dermagne. The investment in the recruitment of a number of social inspectors is a good thing, but according to the recent report of the Court of Auditors, many measures to combat social fraud cannot be quantified or are still being implemented or pending. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the plans to focus more on mental resilience at work and burn-out projects are certainly something we would like to see. Our party will certainly support the measures in this respect, but the question remains how many people will be effectively reached. The corona crisis, homework and the resulting uncertainty have increased the chances of a burn-out. The jojo of measures and empty promises has even strengthened the feeling of uncertainty. Finally, as far as the European social pillar is concerned, the European dimension that you want to give to your policy concerns us. We do not want an erosion of our social security. Not all European countries have the same standard of living, the same standard of social protection, the same socio-economic basis. You may regret that, but that reality is there. Europe can play a role, certainly, in combating cross-border social and financial fraud, for example, but it must not become a race to the bottom, just for the great European unitary goal. That is what we fear about social protection, which we now enjoy. How you wish to complete the social pillar is clear. You want to achieve a social security union, with a supernational policy, but that is completely unrealistic, precisely because of the huge socio-economic differences between the Member States. That is what we are firmly in favour of.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u106	Madam President, I hope that you will be a little generous when I go over my speaking time for a minute. Well, that's my assessment, anyway. Minister, the plans you are making are not entirely tormented and tormented. We of Flemish Interest are not too ashamed to say that. We can agree with your view that health is not just the absence of disease. Health is also the prevention of illness, both mentally and physically. Although prevention is a partial competence, it is a good thing that you pay attention to prevention. Access to health care plays a central role in this, as you are undoubtedly aware, not least in mental health care. We are pleased that you are paying attention to that part of health, but we cannot always get the impression that a number of initiatives are not much more than windowdressing. I am thinking, for example, of the eight sessions at the psychologist for the self-employed. It's what it is, but if you let them work, it would probably be the best psychological boost you can give to self-employed people. Admittedly, other measures are in the right direction. We believe that the attention given to children and young people in mental health care and the extension of mobile services for older people deserve to be given the necessary attention and resources. You provide EUR 200 million in structural funds for this, but let us be honest, that will not be enough. Specialists tell me that more than EUR 600 million will be needed to bring about some progress. Much remains to be done, Minister. We also hope that it will not be words and plans. After all, if the pandemic has taught us one thing, it is that the people are having a particularly hard time mentally. Corona has not done any good to the mental health of many people. What has not done any good at all is the fact that communication in the crisis has been given a particularly harsh taste. You call for solidarity. You even call solidarity one of the key concepts that leads us through the crisis, but at the same time citizens are being set up against each other in a subtle way, even to the extent that it has become a sanitary trenches war where no party is still open to the arguments of the other, let alone one of those two parties still listens to each other. Today, the population is divided into vaccinees and non-vaccines, into two camps. The government is responsible for this polarization. How else should we say the words of a prime minister who states in the media that the pandemic is the pandemic of the non-vaccines? Yet today we hear again saying that the CST will be limited to the vaccinees only. Non-vaccines will therefore no longer be able to go to the café, to the theatre or to restaurants. So they even become pariahs. So there is actually a mandatory vaccination, if we want to preserve our social lives. I wonder out loud on which scientific study that is based, Minister. It is well known that not all will come from the current vaccines and certainly not from a CST. I'm sure there'll be more than that. If not, we would have arrived in your realm of freedom by now. No one will deny that vaccines help, but saying that the pandemic is a pandemic of the non-vaccines is not just a bridge too far, it is scientifically simply wrong. Colleagues, there is no such thing as the holy grail against covid. It will be an en-en-story in which new developments and alternative strategies will have to be included. We must also dare to show the will to allow science to do its work, these and antithesis. I sometimes have the impression that we have ended up in a society where there is another kind of official state science. That reminds me of dark periods in human history. Luckily, fewer scientists are burned today, but every scientist who doesn't march in the park is dismissed as some sort of Looney Tunes professor, a charlatan or even an anti-vaxist. It's gonna burn at the intellectual stake. If a part of the population does not want to be vaccinated today, then a lack of communication and public debate are certainly at the root of this. This also applies to the ever-growing group of people who doubt the booster shot, not to mention the many parents who doubt vaccination for their children. Meanwhile, the war machine between vaccinees and non-vaccines is fed even more with a shortage of beds on intensive care and the delay of regular care, while those are not new facts. In 2017 and 2018, not so far behind us, that was already the case, then because of a flu epidemic. That was a warning, but nothing happened, so now we see the consequences. Indirectly, through an uncomfortable bridge, that brings me to hospital funding. You want to reform hospital funding and make it more efficient. Hospital funding must be made more socially equitable, simpler, fairer and more transparent. Who could be against that? We certainly do not, perhaps no one in the hemisphere is opposed. A plan will be rolled out to reduce pay supplements, but I would like to know how you will pull the Community angel out of that dossier. There is no objective reason for Community differences.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u107	Mr Creyelman, your speaking time has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u108	Madam President, I can conclude with one additional minute. That does not seem insurmountable to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u109	25 seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u110	Minister, the same Community angel is in the medical offer. We see a negative lissage is coming. You want to solve that with a consultation or even an agreement in your government, but hopefully that is not a code for putting it off.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u111	You speak too long, Mr Creyelman.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u112	Showing ambition is one thing, realizing things is another. We hope that promises, words and plans will not remain, although we fear that they will. It is often too little and often too late.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u113	Mr Minister, the budget before us is, as far as we are concerned, obviously insufficient as far as health care is concerned. Why? Today our health care and hospitals are crumbling, not only because of the covid but also because of the savings made in the past years by the right-wing governments. The corrections made by the White Blouse Fund and salary increases are clearly insufficient. It was very disappointing for us to see that, in the budget presented to us today, there is no increase in ambition. You announced a few days ago that you were adding $43 million for salary increases, but you said it yourself, too, is not enough. And indeed, minister, these are crumbs. That is why the PTB is now introducing budgetary amendments to the programme law, to propose a new maxi-White Blouses Fund. This White Blouse Fund must do several things: inject 10% of salary increase into health care; ensure that irregular benefits paid at weekends and at night are paid correctly and at 100%; engage more and for this it is necessary to double the initial Fund; and finally, of course, it must be recognised that the nursing profession is tenuous. It would be a real attractive plan, a real plan to alleviate the shortage and to bring nurses and workers back into the health care sector. Minister, in addition to this shortage in our health care, your idea, in section 87 of the various provisions of the Act, is to increase the shortage of physicians. It's really amazing! These doctors will not be able to obtain their INAMI number. Indeed, if section 87 passes, 1,531 francophone medical students will be at risk of not being able to practise the profession in which they are engaged, even if they succeed in their studies. This is incomprehensible because today our health care system is crumbling because of a lack of arms, Minister. Young doctors and assistants are under pressure from the workload in hospitals. Three out of four Flemish municipalities, one in two in Wallonia, are officially in need of doctors. Sometimes it takes months to get an appointment with a specialist. You want to prevent 1,531 medical students from receiving an INAMI number. Again, the government's policy is incomprehensible. It is completely inadequate for the needs of the population and caregivers on the ground. How dare you break the dream and commitment of hundreds of young doctors who want to help others? This is compounded by absurdity, because students are now being used to help in hospitals during their internship, for example. They are being used in vaccination centres, and today they would be at risk of not being able to do their job. Minister, frankly, this section must be withdrawn. I will conclude my speech with two considerations. Firstly, we see that you are very strict on the long-term sick, but we are still waiting for a plan to deal with the pharmaceutical budget. In the meantime, you have already concluded more than 30 secret contracts yourself. At that time we heard sp.a, now Forward, loudly proclaim that there was a need to get rid of the high prices of the medicines. You've been a minister for over a year, and we're still waiting. Secondly, we do not agree with the savings imposed on health insurance funds. There is a great deal of agreement in the Chamber on this, but we do not agree with it. As a general practitioner, I note that linear savings are again imposed on the sickness funds. The ordinary people, the patients can no longer go to their health insurance fund. There are fewer and fewer windows open, fewer and fewer staff. In our view, patient care should be central. For all these reasons, we will not approve this budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u114	Madam President, Minister, I would like to say a few words about the return to work of long-term diseases. We discussed it at length yesterday, so I'll try to be brief. First, what drives this project to return to work for long-term patients is to reach 80% of the employment rate. In our view, this engine is not the best starting point because it does not give priority to the well-being of long-term patients. I do not mean that some of the long-term patients would not be able to return to work, but in any case, the record of the existing reintegration pathways is not good. Secondly, with your project, the structural causes of long-term diseases are also not taken into account, and it is not Vivaldi's policies that will make things right. I am thinking in particular of the reform of early retirement or of the fact that there is always much more productivity in companies. You do not take account of these structural causes. Moreover, a study by the Flemish Christian Mutuality reveals that 56% of long-term illnesses are due to poor working conditions. Then, Vivaldi wants to get people back to work as quickly as possible, including in suitable work. There, your project does not contain any mention of the measures and constraints imposed on employers to create suitable jobs. You cited the example of my colleague at Aldi's. All those who are ill are suffering from musculoskeletal disorders, and even if they return to work at the end of the procedure, if we do not reduce the productivity at the caisse and if we do not increase the number of minutes necessary to unload a pallet, these people will obviously fall ill three weeks after returning to work. In your project, you say that these people could find a job with another employer. Does that mean that my friend who is a bank employee and who made a burn-out is going to find himself a bus driver? Indeed, you say very clearly in your project that the shortage will be an opportunity. Secondly, on the issue of employers' accountability, we have already told you that you are introducing double standards. Employees will all be affected by this procedure and sanctions, while in the case of companies, you will only take those with more than 50 employees. This represents 0.9% of enterprises, while 49.9% of employees will be involved. In addition, in the calculation you will make to photograph a company X, you will not count people over 55 years of age, while 40% of long-term patients are over 55 years of age. With regard to the responsibility of the employer, you will only take into account employees who are long-term ill, i.e. for more than a year. You have given us your arguments for taking these employees into account. Your arguments do not convince us at all, especially since we should take into account the circumstances that led the sick to return to work after six months or even eleven months. You are not going to analyze the reasons why some people are ill less than a year and, above all, you are not going to hold the employer accountable in these cases. You also explained that when you are sick for more than a year, it meant that you had already been ill less than a year on several occasions. In my opinion, in many cases, when you're sick for more than a year, it's already too late to get back to work because people are really broken. We will not support your project because it follows the same logic of excluding the sick through dismissals for cases of force majeure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u115	I will only respond briefly to a number of issues. A great deal has been said in committee. I think we have spent four days on the Health Policy Paper. We have also spent a lot of time on the Social Affairs policy paper. It is therefore very thorough and detailed. Mrs Gijbels, you ask me what I will do to make health care sustainable. I will not repeat my full policy paper. You have undoubtedly not convinced them, but that is the commitment of the whole policy paper. I would like to make a number of points, Mrs Gijbels. You asked me: 'When are you going to be briefed by the people in the sector and the people in the field?' There are ongoing consultations with people from the sector. Besides, I get a report on law almost every day in hospitals. I'm also getting reactions about what's happening in the hospitals. This is done through the committee you know, in particular the hospital transport and capacity search committee. In it are the hospital domes, experts, Defense and FPS Health officials. This is also led by an official of the FPS Health Department. They sit together to discuss how to deal with the crisis caused by the pandemic. I often ask these people what else needs to be done. A few days ago, I specifically asked those people from that committee what must be done to strengthen the organisation. I would like to tell you that the first answer these people give is this. Please make sure there's less virus circulating and the pandemic weakens. Take action in the rest of society. Do not tell us to organize ourselves better, but tell society to do everything in its power to prevent this pandemic. This pandemic affects hospitals and by extension at the Flemish level, the residential care centres. The pandemic hits the hospitals twice. On the one hand, through an influx of patients on a large scale who take the place of other patients. On the other hand, staff are also sick, infected or quarantined. With such a virus circulation, even the best-organised health care cannot last. The plea of the care staff is therefore to combat the pandemic, if necessary with strict measures. That's what I'm trying to do. I'm not giving that to you because you wouldn't know. You know that, of course. I note that because we need to have the right perspective. When I tell the care staff to organise them better, and I ask them what needs to be done, to allow them to organise themselves better, I get the answer that the pandemic needs to be fought more vigorously. We must take that message with us. Of course, that's not an argument to say we shouldn't do anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u116	Madam President, Minister, although you have now said that this does not mean that we should do nothing, I will postpone my reply to those words. I'd like to hear the sequel first.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u117	Madam President, Mr De Roover, that does not mean that we should do nothing to strengthen the sector. First of all, I would like to say something about the resources we are using. Allow me to put this in a comparative perspective with the period in which you were jointly responsible in the federal government, being the period 2014-2018 or 2019. This has been largely a period of standstill in health investment. There was gross modo no growth. This cannot be maintained in a society where there are more elderly people and therefore also more people with care needs and not in a society where there are strong positive developments in medical technology, pharmaceuticals and medicine capabilities. We cannot stand on the brakes of investment in health care. That's what happened at the time you were responsible. I am looking today and just comparing healthcare expenditure 2019 with the current budget and the expenditure that will be on top of the budget in 2022. So I'm just comparing 2019 to 2022. I note then that, according to this comparison, we are investing EUR 4.9 billion more in the health sector in real terms. This is an historically large investment, which is largely simply compensating and supporting measures that were necessary in the fight against the covid pandemic. So that is not, as it were, a special merit either. However, we do do so on top of a programmed, important catch-up in healthcare expenditure. You're asking what I'm doing. I'm doing something different than in the past, when there was no extra investment in health care. Is that gonna be okay? No, that's not enough. We also need to think about how health care is organised. You asked about the letter on the reform of hospital funding. I specifically decided to postpone that note, which is ready, until mid-January. Hospital directories, doctors, doctors' representatives and nurses are still in complete conflict with covid today, it's a huge hectic period. That is why I postponed that note for a while. We are also constantly consulting doctors' representatives and insurance institutions on what needs to be done on a daily basis, but also on the future perspective. A few hours ago, a unanimous agreement was reached in the Medicomut, where the representatives of the doctors and the representatives of the insurance institutions sit together. A nice agreement has been reached, extending over 2022 and 2023. There are very important passages in that about what we federally can do to strengthen the first line, to strengthen medical practice in the first line, which we federally can do to strengthen specialist medicine and allow for better organisation. This agreement also contains important measures to ensure greater efficiency. There are also measures that will reduce expenditure, in order to create room for useful additional expenditure. That agreement also contains important passages about the postcovid. How should we organise ourselves with regard to post-covid? I am not going to bring this whole agreement here, because it concerns 20 pages of text. That is the result of careful consultation. I have also followed it carefully, through Mr De Cock, the President of the Medicomut. This is happening in constant consultation, in constant dialogue, listening to what lives on the ground. It has led to a nice agreement, with representatives of doctors and health insurance funds. It was sealed off a few hours ago. I hope the government will ratify the agreement. This is possible thanks to the fact that we provide a lot of additional resources, for example consultation will be revalidated. That's important for patient contacts and appreciation. Mrs Gijbels, I think we are creating the conditions to make progress through increased investment in health care and ongoing dialogue. I'm not euphoric about that. You don't hear me saying it's all perfect. There is still a lot of work to be done and there will undoubtedly be a lot of discussion about the reform of hospital funding, but saying that nothing is happening is not right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u118	Mr Minister, I like a well-defined debate and I have the impression that you are confusing two things: how to make the regular care, without crises such as COVID-19, future proof and how to efficiently use the resources that we want to develop for proper regular care. You say you have a lot of consultation. I accept that, but that is a discussion that is independent of another discussion, namely how one is to act in a crisis situation. It is impossible to solve the additional challenges that COVID-19 has brought with classic regular care and within the classical framework. I take it that we are not finally faced with the care challenge by COVID-19, but there is no point in blowing up regular care in such a way that you are at the level of a crisis situation. What is a good organization? Ensure that good regular care is possible in normal conditions with a certain realistic buffer. But then there is the question of where the expansion vessel is, where is the possibility to make that extra effort in the event of a crisis. You say we should avoid hospitalization as much as possible. That is in itself justified. That is why I am asking why you hesitated for so long to generalise the booster shot. That was a measure which could have made a fundamental difference there. Moreover, if you, as the person responsible for health care, are not to find out in the first, the second, the third, but in the fourth wave that your system, your organization, as a result of that fourth wave, should be delayed regular care, should you not admit that your policy has failed? That is, of course, your basic responsibility. You must guarantee regular care and, in addition, you must have made the preparations in the meantime in a fourth wave to ensure that that state of emergency can be dealt with within that expansion vessel. You didn't take care of that. After all, regular care has been postponed. That is a serious failure of your policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u119	Mr De Roover, it is interesting that it is said here, because that also indicates the enormous naivety of this approach. We should have had an expansion vessel ready.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u120	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u121	What would that be? Should that be another 500 beds with potentially specialised nurses who know intensive care and urgency, but who wait for such a crisis to come? That's bullshit, isn't it? You can provide a flexible system. We have also taken measures for this by introducing'midcare', for example. That's new. We can try to optimize the intensive concerns. However, we have a very large capacity intensive concerns. Germany has much more, but that is very exceptional in Europe. We have a very large capacity compared to many other countries. She's not perfectly organized, but the idea that there just needed to be more hospital is very naive. There had to be less pandemic. Even the best-organized hospitals are being disrupted in a pandemic on this scale. The idea of an expansion vessel that had to be ready is very cynical. The reaction I get from hospitals to suggestions in that sense is very indignant, rightly so. What does that expansion vessel look like for someone who was responsible in a government that didn't create any expansion? Now you're sitting here saying there should have been an expansion vessel. I just said that we are spending EUR 4.9 billion more compared to 2019. Now you have the culot to say here that there should have been an expansion vessel, while you have been constantly on the brakes and have caused zero expansion. I can give you the figures, even for years when the budget has fallen in real terms. That was a government you were part of. As NV-A, you've been in the federal government once over the last 50 years, and I see one thing: halting investment in health care. That is what I see, and now you are saying here that there should have been an expansion vessel. Aren't you a little embarrassed to come here and say that? So please be a little serious. Think about what kind of expansion vessel there was in the time you were responsible. None, niks, nothing. We've had to make a huge catch-up. So what the hell are you doing here?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u122	Your indignation shows how much I put my finger on the wound. First of all, you come here with the interesting news that the NV-A had a government responsibility during some sort of corona crisis. That's not true. The corona crisis is here now. Your excitement is not of that nature to be persuasive, not to me, nor to the people whose regular care has been postponed by your policy. Today there are people who do not receive regular care because of the policy of the Minister of Health. Those are facts. That is the policy of the Minister of Health, who in a normally civilised country ensures that regular care can be guaranteed. In the event of a crisis, you do not appear to be able to think in terms of emergency situations, a crisis which did not exist when the N-VA was in the government, Minister. In addition, in the case of a fourth wave, in the case of a first or a second wave, I would like to commend you, because that happens to you. You are unemployed looking at an emergency situation and you continue to rely on the traditional, regular care. That is an unworthy policy for a health minister in a civilised country. You don't have an answer to that. You failed at the moment that there was an additional need. What will you say when a certain severe crisis breaks out tomorrow? Suppose we ever end up in a war situation, will you say that the regular care will take care of it? If you are unable to reason in terms of emergencies, then you are out of place.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u123	I won't repeat my arguments, but it's pathetic. So you have been on the brakes for four years for health expenditure, and now you have come to say that there is not enough investment in it and I have to provide an expansion vessel, when we are indeed expecting a huge expansion. Excuse me. For the rest, Mr De Roover, I do not even understand what you are telling me about how I am trying to solve it with regular care and so on. I don't even understand your explanation. I would like to respond briefly to a comment made by Mr Creyelman.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u124	Mr Minister, just for the purity of the debate, that particle is finished and you can continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u125	Alle, for the purity of the debate. (...):(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u126	I can handle that. We have already had three to four of these budgetary debates, Minister, and we know the style and approach in the meantime. You get a little more assertive in communication at some point, which usually indicates that you are getting weaker in the argumentation. Two things about the budgets. Mrs Depraetere, leader of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, has also mentioned it. This week economist Bart Van Craeynest said that the health budget also increased in absolute terms under the previous government. Less, but still more, also in relation to the GNP. Your statement that this is not correct can simply be verified. If you're looking for this for two seconds, you'll find it. It would be a good thing for you to stick to the facts in that regard. There is a very interesting voice in the academic debate, which points out that there is at least EUR 3 billion in efficiency gains within the healthcare sector, namely that of Professor Crombez of Ghent University. There are real budgetary opportunities there, if we could manage to respond more efficiently to health needs and organise them in a better way. That is the policy we have pursued with the Swedish Government. There was one bad communication in which we called that saving, when we actually had to call it reform. You like to refer to that bad communication and that is your right, but it would be a pleasure to focus on it. Professor Crombez makes it very clear that there is budgetary capacity when this exercise takes place, so that a number of things can happen, as Mr De Roover points out. Then we can get to work on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u127	I referred to the National Committee on Medical Funds and the agreement reached there a few hours ago. It sets out the explicit objective of increasing efficiency and making better use of money available in this way. That is an ambitious objective. I am grateful to the representatives of the doctors and the sickness funds for reaching an agreement with each other, in line with the government agreement. That's not a point of discussion. Mr Creyelman mentioned 2G. All I have said about this is that I have no fundamental problem with the fact that someone who is not vaccinated does not have the opportunity to do certain activities that may be more risky in an epidemic than if someone has been vaccinated. That is my basic opinion, which I expressed during a documentary. I didn't put any proposals on the table. It is worth having a very thorough and broad democratic debate on this, I think we should do so. Mrs Merckx, I have already given some details on the budget, which I am not going to repeat, of the 1,500 young people I will be depriving of a diploma. What a fantasy! I don't know what you're talking about. I'd take 1,500 people's degrees with Article 87. What kind of bullshit is that? Will you stop doing that? I have explained four times, so now a fifth time, that Article 87 itself means nothing. This is the legal basis for doing something if we do not find a reasonable agreement with the Communities on how to organise the health service. I take it that you do not have a purely free market view about the provision in health care, not just liberal everyone does but. I don't have that view, perhaps you do. One must control and plan the supply in the healthcare sector. That's an old-fashioned word, you should love it. This must be done in a balanced way across the Communities. The best way to do that is through the influx of studies. I hope we can reach an agreement on that. If we don't agree on that, then we have to control it in a different way. Article 87 has to do with that. That's about controlling the future supply. Saying that we would take 1,500 people's degrees is bullshit, I don't know where you get that. Mrs Moscufo, I am not going to repeat what I said in the interesting debate that we conducted. I still think you're mixing two things. On the one hand, what is the nature of a reliable indicator to empower businesses? On the other hand, what are the actions that result from this responsibility? Obviously, the actions must be preventive and concern workers who become ill after two weeks, three weeks, one month, immediately. But the reliable indicator we want to use is a long-term disease indicator that is the result of things that don't work. At this level, we agree. I therefore believe that the criticism of the indicator is a bit of a mismatch between what is an indicator of an inadequate result and on which we are responsible and what are the necessary actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u128	Minister, I wanted to ask you another question about 2G, but I think you were talking about 1G. On the radio this morning I heard that they would only receive a CST if they had been vaccinated or had been through the disease. So that's the 2G system. You have literally said that this is actually a way of obliging people to vaccination, without doing so as such. Do you agree that the debate on compulsory vaccination should be conducted openly? That compulsory vaccination can or cannot be introduced, but not through indirect pest measures? That whether or not to require vaccination requires a parliamentary debate with hearings with bioethics and so on? To impose vaccination is a very serious decision and I do not want to take a preliminaries approach. Vaccination cannot be compulsory by means of a pestilence measure under the skin, can it? That must be done with the choice of yes or no. If the choice would be no, then one must respect the free choice of people. You seem to have some difficulties at the moment in regulating the mandatory vaccination of the care workers legally. Do you have any legal objections in this regard, so that you want to deal with the other problem de facto by means of a detour of a pestilence measure under the skin? Do you not want to strive for a correct legal solution? If we want to introduce compulsory vaccination, should we not have a full debate in Parliament on this? Isn't there a need for a proper legal basis? It is not possible to introduce compulsory vaccination under the skin with a pestilence measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u129	Mr De Roover, I have already served you at your beck and call on the Belgian Advisory Committee on Bioethics to give an opinion on this. By the way, that has been published today and is very interesting, you should read it. It is a useful input into the debate on mandatory vaccination and 2G. So I've served you at your beck and call. Of course, there must be an in-depth parliamentary debate on these things. Moreover, I cannot imagine how a general compulsory vaccination, a measure such as 2G or variants could be introduced without Parliament, because that is all legislation. Of course, that will be discussed here. So today, the Belgian Advisory Committee on Bioethics has published an opinion on my explicit question on the issue. That advice does not necessarily tell me what I think should or should not say, but I think it is a very interesting advice that is absolutely read. Go check it out. You might have time later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u130	Minister, I would like to return to the debriefing. I do not dispute that you regularly speak with people from the field of work and that you pick things up there, but a structured debriefing after every hospital crisis tax is of course something else. I know something like this didn't happen because I hear it from the hospitals. They still have a lot of ideas that they would like to pass on. We are confronted with the same problems over and over again, at every wave, and the solutions remain out. Some of the issues raised by the hospital sector are the rapid training of people to use them for intensive care, the possibility of evacuation of people as soon as possible to, for example, switching centres, other institutions or rehabilitation centres where there may be room, to make room for other people, and the removal of administrative tasks at the first line and hospitals, so that they can devote themselves fully to care tasks, in a very slow manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u131	If we had introduced this quickly, the expansion vessel would have been there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u132	Minister, you didn't say a word about the investment budget. That's quite significant! Caregivers are now on the street and are demanding more investment. There is indeed a legacy of years of austerity in health care that we are trying to correct. Today, there is nothing more on the table when we really need it to strengthen our health care. It is really a shame that we did not answer on this point. In addition, with regard to the issue of the INAMI number and section 87, I did not say that you were removing the diploma, I said that you were taking away the possible ability to practice medicine, threatening not to give an INAMI number. The figure of 1,500 students who are threatened is not from me, it comes from Minister Glatigny. So you say Mrs. Glatigny is lying! This is the number of students who are now so-called supernumerary in relation to quotas. You say there'll be no problem if there's a deal. Why then did you not conclude an agreement before establishing this rule? That doesn't make sense! We know how Belgium works, there is no guarantee to reach an agreement. As far as the numerus clausus is concerned, I am for planning. But if there is an idea that is archaic today, it is that of holding to a numerus clausus as we face an ageing population, that doctors retire or want to stop medicine and that we need another organization of work. We need doctors in the field! If you want more efficiency, go to the delivery medicine but not to people who want to become a doctor!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u133	Mr. Secretary, first of all, the CST is not working. We probably don't agree on that. It gives a false sense of safety and has probably even led to more infections. We're not the only ones saying that. That's what Emmanuel André says, which you're not unknown to. You have had it examined, but for the time being there are no plans for compulsory vaccination. You say you have no problem using the CST as some kind of implicit obligation. People who have not been vaccinated are then excluded from social life. That's de facto people making pariahs, I think. That's what you're saying, isn't it? You are shaking your head now, Minister. You're actually saying we're going for social exclusion. People who have not been vaccinated will not be able to receive CST in the future, even on the basis of a PCR test. If I've misunderstood the news by the end of the day, you'll explain it to me later. It is difficult to call this a social measure. We talked about mental health. I have to say that I support a lot of these measures, probably all of them. I don't even think they're far enough. You probably don't get enough budget for it. If we want to be sure that more people in mental health care will have to be helped, that is one of the methods. Such an implicit obligation, a social exclusion, may be socialist, but I do not think it is social.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip151x.u134	Are there any further questions? Then I'll lock up. The services ask me for a technical break of 10 to 15 minutes.
