ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u1	Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the acquisition of a brilliant cabinet employee, Mr Vanpraet, who has proven in the past to manage the institutional dossier expertly and also has creative ideas about it, not to mention the double aspect theory, which I am particularly interested in. Having said that, I will talk about the theme of the day, or rather last week's theme. Madam Secretary, you gave the opening lecture to Professor Carl Devos. These are becoming more and more important political moments. Presidents of the political parties and high-ranking ministers will shed light on a number of issues. I followed your statement. My impression was, if you forgive me, that you tried to say as little concretely as possible about the institutional system. You obviously did not intend to make strong political statements. That seems to have turned out a little differently. In a translation which I think is wrong, more has been read than I think it has been, but it will be up to you to explain that. I have heard in particular the statement that Brussels is something special. Brussels is a reality in itself, is an entity in itself, with a culture specific to Brussels, but Brussels is also special. It is also our capital, and that means that there are a number of consequences. So we need to see what role Brussels can take in the model. The word 'part entity' you used was translated on the French-speaking side as'sous-entité', while I believe that Brussels is actually a'super-entité'. Knowing the CD&V programme, this also seems to me to be your party's conclusion that Brussels is not inferior, but just more worthy, because Brussels is the capital. So there's been a lot of fuss about that. I have two questions for you. Firstly, what are the lessons that you yourself learn from this and how do the statements made and the evaluation of those statements relate to what is explicitly included in the coalition agreement? Secondly, I have seen a message from Mr Calvo suggesting that the institutional debate should not be held in the government, but that it should be brought to Parliament, so that it should not be a government matter but a parliamentary matter. I apologize if I misread his statement; that is not my intention. In any case, Madam Minister, it would certainly be interesting to know your position on this matter. Do you consider the institutional dossier and the preparation of state reform to be a government matter, as is also stated in the government agreement, or did you realise, after last week's adventures, that Parliament should take the lead in the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u2	Madam President, Minister, the country has already undergone six reforms of the state, with a rather disastrous result in the functioning of our institutions today. You have announced two axes, from the beginning of your term of office. You said on 13 November 2020 that you wanted to set up a citizen platform, a platform for dialogue on the future of Belgian federalism, which "will include a broad consultation of citizens, especially young people, civil society, academia, experts, local authorities, and which should communicate its conclusions to the government by the end of 2021". So you announced a rather new participation, with conclusions that the government would take into account – that's at least what I thought. Indeed, we do not consult people just to hear them speak. However, on 17 February last you announced in a substantive debate at the University of Ghent that you had already opted for the "2+2" model, namely two federated entities (Flanders and Wallonia) and two sub-areas (deelgebieden) (Brussels and the German-speaking Community). My first question is a little factual. Does your colleague Minister Clarinval support the option you have chosen? Is it in favour of the "2+2" model? Is this a coordinated view at the government level or was it a philosophical reflection on your part? Secondly, what does this have to do with your desire for citizen involvement? How is it that you are already at the conclusion stage when this great consultation has not yet begun? Do you not think that the main problem in Belgium is that there is no structure that can tie the knot in case of differences between the different entities? We can have all kinds of discussions about this, but in the past year it has become clear that Belgium is characterised by a competitive federalism where everyone is on an equal footing. That leads to no one cutting the buttons. What would interest me, if you were "2+2", is to know who slices in Belgium? The question is that when we see the war that is being waged by all the federated entities, whether in terms of health care, climate or mobility. In fact, the "Bordel" in Belgium comes from the fact that there is no procedure for deciding who does. However, I thought that the institutional will was precisely to improve the functioning of our state structure. Do you already have any idea, in your current thinking, even in the "2+2", of who slices on this question? In health care, for example, who will decide on centralized coordination on crisis management? Moreover, why do you put Brussels in the "+2"? Unlike some parties here around the table, I find that Brussels is not part of the problem but part of the solution. Brussels is great; the Communities join it. It is a great melting pot of what is ultimately the future of the evolution of our big cities. It is still great that a Region in its own right is in existence and born with its own dynamics. I am glad to see, even through both the Flemish and French parties, that we find ourselves with a Brussels sense. I do not have too many problems because we are still a unified party. I don't understand why you divide your vision: 2+2. Why does Brussels have to have a status visibly below, when it has its own dynamics? Here are my four questions about you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u3	Thank you for your question, Mr Hedebouw. I would like to remind you that, in order for every colleague to have time to put his questions, the speaking time is two minutes per speech. I forgot to say that at the beginning of the session.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u4	Madam Minister, I will be quite clear with you. The comments you made on 17 February at the University of Ghent, which I expect to be put into context, have struck us in particular. You spoke of a model called "2+2", but which, in the terms you are given, would lead to the recognition of two Regions in their own right, then two sub-entities – namely, Brussels and the German-speaking Community. In fact, words of this nature are tantamount, on the one hand, to denying Brussels as a Region – but it is indeed one – and, on the other hand, to displaying some form of contempt for the Brussels people. I must not remind you of the government agreement and what it provides for from the point of view of the institutional reforms to be examined. At the same time, I would like to know how you reconcile the government agreement with your statements. In the same way, I would like to remind you – this has just been said, but I repeat – that Brussels is certainly a chance for Belgium, because it forms a crossroads, as well as an economic lung – since people come from Flanders and Wallonia to work alongside the Brussels residents. It is said to represent just under 20% of the wealth produced. This region, home to 1.2 million inhabitants, is home to important international and European institutions. And we'd make it a sub-entity? This is obviously unacceptable. I'm telling you, anyway, like Brussels. Minister, my questions are clear. Is it a form of creativity, a conceptual reflection? All right! If it's only with Mr. Clarinval, you're in charge of institutional affairs. In this regard, did you cooperate with him? What will your work schedule be for the consultation you have planned with Parliament, civil society and a range of other academic observers? And above all, Madam Minister, it is now time to have a word for the Brussels and Brusselsers, but also for our German-speaking fellow citizens, by the way, to remind them that they are not considered second-class citizens, that their institutions are not considered second-class institutions, that they have a constitutional basis as citizens of course, but that their institutions also have a constitutional basis. I think it is high time, Madam Minister, to clarify your remarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u5	Madam Minister, on 17 February 2021, at a conference at the University of Ghent, you expressed your wish to see a reform of the state based on a structure that you call a "2+2" model. If I understood correctly, according to this model, there would be two large federated entities (Flandre and Wallonia) as well as federated sub-entities (Brussels and the German-speaking region). All of this would coexist with a federal entity. You say that it would be a concern for consistency, simplification and clarity that would have led you to this proposal. In this respect, you state that the federated entity covering the Dutch-speaking linguistic territory should in all cases be able to continue to exercise the powers of the federated sub-entity which would cover the territory of Brussels. Finally, you also pointed out that you have found a certain enthusiasm for this model on both sides of the linguistic border and that you remain convinced that the Belgian model still has added value. I agree with you on one point: the Belgian model still has, in our view, added value and it is better to build than to demolish. Like my colleagues, we would like some clarification. You indicate that you have seen a real enthusiasm for this proposal on the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking sides. Do you have an investigation or analysis that would have been commissioned by I don't know who and I don't know where? It would be interesting to have the basis on which you announce this important enthusiasm throughout the country. Are you considering including the model that you proposed in this citizen consultation platform, which is part of the government agreement and which is an important element for Belgians to be able to express their views on a state that could work much better? To understand, what would be the benefits of the model you are proposing? I'm having a hard time identifying them. Is there already a timetable for the establishment of this citizen consultation platform with a view to preparing for the reform of the state in 2024? If so, what is it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u6	Minister, I am not going to recall the context that has been brilliantly recalled by my colleagues. However, I wanted to take advantage of this topical debate to stress one thing that I believe is fundamental: that as the minister in charge of institutional reforms, the government agreement still invites you to a certain reservation, since today we are still at a preparatory stage for this state reform. As we all know, this stage must involve a broad democratic, citizen and civil society consultation. The government agreement is very clear: in order to increase the effectiveness of our state's structures, the government must launch a broad democratic debate, as well as a dialogue between political representatives to assess the existing structure of our state. However, the statements you have made at the University of Ghent – and you will be able to explain them more to us today – suggest that this broad democratic process is only a screen or when it would take place, but only to decide on the model that your party has only been plebiscite for a long time, as evidenced by the resolutions of the Flemish Parliament of 3 March 1999 on the "2+2" model, which denies the Brussels Region as a region in its own right, but also the German-speaking Community. However, I would like to point out that the Brussels Region is not a super entity or a particular entity, it is a Region. As a result, my questions are similar to those of my colleagues. How do you justify your statements? Are they shared by your Francophone counterpart, Mr. David Clarinval? Has the "2+2" model been discussed with your majority partners prior to your statements? When I hear the questions of my colleagues in the majority, I have the impression that this is not the case, but can you confirm that? Finally, what is the time frame for citizen consultation and how will this consultation necessarily have to be based on the model that seems to hold your preference?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u7	Madam Minister, with regard to institutional discussions and state reform, the priority of the process for the Ecolo-Green Group lies in consultation with citizens and civil society. That is why my colleagues Guillaume Defossé and Kristof Calvo tabled questions on the process itself, which will come later on the agenda. This consultation with civil society and citizens is also at the heart of the government agreement. We do not want to have a debate in a castle and come out with an agreement. We need to have other models of discussion. This is our top priority. You gave your opinion a few weeks ago, as my colleagues pointed out, as all the citizens of this country are entitled to do, on the future of our country. But, as you are minister, in this government, of the interior and above all of the institutional reforms, your opinion has an important weight in this discussion. In the form "2+2" you presented, you implied that Brussels and the German-speaking Community could be sub-regions. Whether for my Ecolo-Green group or for different parties, this model is not acceptable. Brussels and the German-speaking Community are entities in their own right. As Brussels and fully in line with my party's ideas, I would like to point out that Brussels has evolved for decades as an autonomous region, in its own right, at the same level as Wallonia and Flanders. Even the Dutch-speaking parties in Brussels define themselves as Dutch-speaking Brussels, as there are also French-speaking Brussels parties. The diversity of languages and cultures creates a Brussels fact established in our country which, I think, is a real wealth for Belgium as a whole. I am proud and happy that all my colleagues are taking the floor to say so. I really hope that this will not be called into question by any party. I wanted to tell you this clearly, but also firmly in relation to our political vision. I just wanted to ask you, like my colleagues, to clarify what you said. As it stands, a vision of our country's future with subregions is not at all the federal model we are considering. This certainly does not correspond to the preponderance of the Brussels-Capital Region in our country. This is also what makes its wealth and diversity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u8	Madam President, I thought I would ask for the floor first during the replies, but I have to apologise: I am due in another committee in five minutes. Still, I just wanted to say this. Madam Secretary, I am sure you would like to be very careful during your guest lecture. You didn't want to scoff and kept all the options open. After all, you refer to the dialogue platform and to the fact that the debates have yet to start. Immediately you have been able to experience how sensitive the theme you are co-responsible for is. If there is one thing that is clear, it is that you thought you might open the door with the two options: "4 or 2+2 Regions," but that in the meantime, a competition 'to react most strongly' broke out on the French-speaking side, even within your own government, when I read the reactions of Mr Dermagne, Mrs Khattabi, Mrs Wilmès and your fellow Minister for Institutional Reforms, Mr Clarinval. I fear that it has immediately become clear to you that a divided Flemish side is faced with a very clear French-speaking front if you want to work towards a state reform. My only question is not whether you want to open the door to the '2+2 option'. On the contrary, my concern lies on the other hand, since you are keeping open the option of the four fully-fledged Länder. Do I have to interpret that as a curve that the CD&V used? Within this government, your party is the only one who has not yet given in. I have the impression that the other parties are clearly involved, albeit not always at the same time: I heard the sp.a President say in this regard that he has not even thought about Brussels in the future state structure. I will have to read it in the report afterwards because I have to leave now, but I would have liked to hear from you that you can reassure me that your party is not making the turn in which four full states would suddenly be an option.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u9	Minister, that concludes a first salve of extremely interesting questions that I imagine you are eager to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first to answer the various questions in accordance with the coalition agreement. I am not saying anything new when I say that the coalition agreement sets a general objective, in particular a new state structure from 2024, with a more homogeneous and efficient division of powers, while respecting the principles of subsidiarity and interpersonal solidarity. It is not new that the coalition agreement does not make a clear choice for one model or another, nor for the model 2+2 or a model with 4 Länder. It is precisely in the context of that passage in the coalition agreement that I have advocated and still advocated an open debate on where we should go with our country at institutional level. We need to make this exercise open-minded and in dialogue with as many people, partners and parties as possible who want to participate constructively. Of course, the broad public consultation on the future of our federalism can influence the outcome of this. We believe that a broad debate with citizens, experts, academics, local authorities and civil society can only contribute to this. That's exactly what I said in Ghent and exactly what we're doing right now. We are indeed preparing that dialogue platform in preparation for that state reform. In the framework of that dialogue platform, a broad consultation will primarily be organised during the course of this year. That's something I do with my colleague Clarinval. We are preparing for this. I also refer to the answers I have already given to previous questions that were put to me and to Mr Clarinval. Mr Loones, it is indeed an interaction between the government and Parliament to prepare for this state reform. In this respect, the coalition agreement still determines the route and direction of march, and that is exactly what we are setting up over the next few weeks and months. As far as timing is concerned, we have indeed said that we are heading towards 2024 for those more homogeneous packages, and so we will start this broad survey in the coming months. To your question on Mr Calvo's statements, Mr Calvo is best placed to reply. He is also a great believer in the balanced division of labour between Parliament and the government. That's the line we're holding. Parliament has an important role to play, but also the government and ministers of institutional reform in terms of both institutional reform and democratic renewal. With regard to state reform, the government agreement states that it is the intention to get as far as possible to prepare for the future of our country and to prepare for this legislature certain texts, proposals on the division of powers, the financing rules, the institutions, which will be submitted to the Council of State as far as possible after an agreement has been reached in the government. That's the exercise we're doing. I'm not gonna get ahead of that. It would be awesome to argue for a broad democratic debate and to do a number of preliminaries. That is precisely why we must wait for a broad democratic debate first. Regarding your questions regarding the course I gave as a guest at the University of Ghent on 17 February, I would like to provide a consolidated answer. The sometimes virulent reactions in the mainly French-speaking press surprised me somewhat. It was not so much the existence of the sensitivities on the francophone side that surprised me, but the reactions that wrongly attributed me the words that I did not speak and did not want to speak. I would therefore like to say something about the direction of the flow of information about the course I have given. During this course, I drew attention to the complex structure of our country, which, according to Articles 1, 2 and 3 of our Constitution, is based on three Communities and three Regions. COCOM and COCOF also have legislative power. Because of the complexity that we all experienced during the covid crisis, I plead for an in-depth and open debate on state reform, and I have said so on a number of occasions, without taboos. In such a debate, it is true that there are ideas such as a "2+2" model or a model with four federated entities that are already named and defined before and that can be discussed, but I did not speak out. I did not make a proposal and I did not express myself on either option. However, I was able to see that some reactions in the French-speaking press made me say that Brussels and the German-speaking Community would become sub-entities. I didn't even mention the words deelstaten, deelgebieden for those who took the course. To say that I have spoken these words does not correspond to the content of the course I have given. After all, I have indicated that a number of slopes are on the table which have already been mentioned and which can, of course, be included in the debate, if we have a serious debate. Mr Goffin, Mr Laaouej, Mr Hedebouw, it is important to listen. You have referred to a debate in which we must listen. I must say that you have said that, but obviously you have not listened very carefully. Perhaps I could ask those present who listened effectively to the words I said during that guest lecture, because it will show that I did not plead for one or the other. Nor have I made any preliminaries on the outcome of the debate. Those who are now asking for a number of buttons are therefore ahead of the debate. I won't. Mr Hedebouw, you just said that you think Brussels is part of the solution. I should like to say a little more: I think that not only Brussels should be part of the solution, but that we should all be part of the solution. That is not the prerogative of one region or another in our country. We must listen to each other in order to find a solution together. If I want to clarify something today, something that the whole college should have followed, even if it were to prove, it is once again that I call for debate and, above all, to listen to each other. The challenge is not to who will cry out loud, but to who can listen to find a solution for our country. I think that is what we must remember from the conference I gave last week. As for the other comments, I do not take responsibility for those who shouted loudly. I would like to appeal to everyone to listen, to find a solution for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u11	Madam President, Minister, you have learned your lesson, but you have also missed an opportunity. The lesson that has been learned is that from the moment someone is even slightly creative or is claimed to be creative, it is above all that; you have been put in the mouth that you have not spoken, a huge storm is uprooting in the institutional debate. That's a lesson you've learned. In your reply this afternoon, you repeated the facts in particular, repeated what you said and quoted the coalition agreement. You didn't bring any news today. So you've learned your lesson. However, you also missed an opportunity. The opportunity you miss is the opportunity to show that you like Brussels. That is the feeling that I personally read in the statements of the French-speaking Members, which show justified concerns. I have lived in and around Brussels for almost ten years: in Molenbeek and for a very long time in Jette. I love our capital very much. I really like Brussels. Moreover, Brussels is not only an element of the solution, it is also the essence of the way in which we work together in this country and exactly how this cooperation is organised. It is important, however, that we, the Dutch speakers, continue to express this declaration of love for Brussels as a city, but also as a capital, and that we do so with conviction, unforced and in full. Madam Minister, I personally had hoped that your reply would include that element of the declaration of love. It could be an opportunity or a suggestion to see it in another forum in the future. That is my point with regard to you, but also with regard to the other Members. Love is mutual. Love goes in both directions. Flanders shows very generously, also financially, his love to his capital. We are heavily financing our capital. We do not do that because we feel obliged to do so, because we do so because it fits and belongs, because Brussels is our capital. However, love is also mutual. I am increasingly asking myself whether Brussels still wants to be the capital of Belgium. I really ask myself this question every time I hear reasoning that we would like to organise Brussels with four Regions, etc. Nowhere is it mentioned that Brussels is much more than a Region! She's our capital. I am also looking at colleagues, especially the French-speaking colleagues, to be clear in their beliefs. Do they agree that the Brussels region should be strengthened, given more powers and more responsibility and whose identity should be recognised in Brussels? I fully agree with that. But do they also agree that Brussels is the capital and that it is also important that links with the large communities in this country are preserved? Are they willing to show that love is mutual? For me, that is the essence of last week. That is, by the way, the essence of the matter for many years. We need to make it clear how love works in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u12	Madam Minister, I have been mentioned several times by name, so I find it useful to reply. I quite agree with what Mr Loones said in his question at the beginning of the sitting. Those who have followed the speech need not be so indignant, as we have seen in some reactions. Madam Secretary, you have been quite reluctant and have shown sufficient openness, including with regard to your party's historic positions. This statement did not disturb me very much, although I may take a different basic position from you or your party regarding the future of Brussels and the model for the future of Belgium. The whole saga teaches me that the debate will remain very sensitive and a solution will take a lot of time. My fellow Members who stress dialogue and participation are right about the surplus. That is also very important to me. That requires a little restraint and openness from all of us. In that sense, I found a number of speeches somewhat inconsistent. It cannot be said that the Minister is not allowed to speak on the subject, even though all Belgium of the future has been drawn up. That certainly teaches me that we all need to show a little restraint and openness. We need to give the issue time. Parliament has a major role to play in this. We must not give the impression that it is all in the majority, because that is not the case. Parliament seems to me to be a suitable platform for working more openly, as a platform of curiosity, in cooperation with the members of the government concerned. Let us try to do something positive with the event, which means that we must be able to have an open discussion in Parliament, with sufficient curiosity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u13	I would like to clarify the Rules of Procedure by saying that there is only one speaker per political group. Normally you didn't have the floor, Mr. Calvo. So much for me! Mr. Vandenburre had to reply, but as he left, there should normally have been no reply. I want to make that clear for the next few times. If everyone intervenes, we won't make it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u14	Minister, as far as the facts are concerned, I simply read what you posted on your website (verlindenbelgium.be): "Minister Verlinden shared her vision on this issue with law students this afternoon. The Minister of the Interior and Institutional Reforms Annelies Verlinden pleads for a substantive debate on state reform, in which new ideas, such as a "2+2" model or a model with four federated entities, can also be discussed." As a result, you are giving your own political impetus. But the fact is that the model "2+2", whether you like it or not... Everyone has talked about the French-speaking parties here, but I do not belong to a French-speaking party. Am I a Fleming, a Waal, a Brusselser? That is still a major philosophical issue. Identity is totally politically substantiated. I don't believe anything natural comes out of that, the nation and so on. My father is from Ruddervoorde, my mother is from Hasselt. I was born in Liège, friends. So, the multiple identities... So I did not speak as a member of a French-speaking party. We are a national party, certainly, and the 2+2 model is effectively confronting the diversity that already exists in Brussels. That is the problem, which you yourself raise as a problem on your own website. You do not simply say that there are many ideas and that it is a melting pot, but as a minister you put forward two proposals. This brings me to the issue of creativity, which Mr Loones raised. I agree that creativity is needed, but we have been hearing the same arguments and the same logic for some 30 years to determine whether Brussels should be divided at Community level or whether Brussels is a territorial political entity. It has been the same debate for 30 years, which is nothing original. On the other hand, there is one who is absent, it is the one that consists of who decides, what is the hierarchy of norms? I hope that this will be the real debate that we will be opening, instead of deciding whether Belgium should operate at four or "2+2". In Belgium, the "border" is to know who, at the crucial moment, decides. We have a European particularity, since we are the only country where no one decides. This is what Codeco looks like: everyone looks at a liar poker in which arguments are exchanged; some have bubbles, others don't, etc. There is no hierarchy of standards. I enjoyed reading Jean-Luc Dehaene's memoirs during the holidays. I had a little time back then. There were many very interesting points on which I totally disagreed with Jean-Luc Dehaene, such as the Global Pact, but on one issue he did have a point: that there is no hierarchy of standards in Belgium and that we are simply organising chaos. I suggest that we resolve this, if we are going to discuss the state reform: who will decide if there is no agreement on the rules? It's about climate, mobility, health. If there is no agreement between the regions on all these points, then who will decide? I suggest that the federal level should decide, but we should have that discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u15	I would like to say to the colleagues of the N-VA that there is an expression in French: "love cow". You make a great declaration of love to the Brussels Region, but what I receive as propaganda from your party, regularly, in my mailbox, is the opposite of true love or affection, and even true respect for the Brussels Region and its inhabitants. But the debate with you is not taking place today and we will certainly have the opportunity to return to it. Madam Minister, I, too, did indeed see what you yourself had published at some point. However, I am satisfied, but careful when I hear you say that you have not said that. Of which act. You will also understand, Madam Minister, that it is out of the question, as far as we are concerned, of the Brussels people being deprived of their institution. I would like to repeat that this has a foundation in the Constitution, which puts their Region on an equal footing with the other Regions. Madam Minister, we can think about everything we want, but this is certainly a line that must not be crossed. I am telling you this very sincerely because I want us to be clear. In this way, there will be no further controversy in the near future. This must be taken into account in your schemes. I'm expressing it. You should consider that imagining that it is otherwise is a problem. Then the discussion is open, the government agreement makes possible a discussion and a debate. In any case, we have been debating this in our country for decades. In itself, it's not something new. But let us do so with respect for the Brussels and the Brussels and their institutions!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u16	Madam Minister, like my colleague Ahmed Laaouej, I note that the words that have been lent to you do not correspond to what you have actually said. I also note that you have indicated that you want to work with an open vision. Indeed, when we call for dialogue, debate and the government, and I welcome it, takes the responsibility to involve the citizen positively in the process, we must necessarily have an open vision and a listening capacity, which you have also stressed. If, today, a local councillor from Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels, a citizen of Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels, is questioned, we will probably have very different answers about the functioning of our State and about the understanding of our institutions. In doing so, in the context of the debate to be held, it will be necessary to explain what this is about, because at present few people still understand the functioning of our institutions. Mr. Raoul Hedebouw made a long demonstration on the hierarchy of standards. He even took advantage of the holidays, if I understood correctly, to go look for a text by Jean-Luc Dehaene. But beyond that, there is first and foremost a problem of understanding. The inhabitants of our country, our fellow citizens no longer understand our institutions. If this debate is to succeed, it will first have to explain the issues and, above all, the proposals that will be on the table. Otherwise, there will be a risk of missing this beautiful meeting of the population to define the institutions together. In my opinion, this is the first time such an appointment has been made. We need to be up to speed!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'll tell you, I'm getting a little lost in your explanations. You tell us, first of all, that you did not cite as such the model "2 + 2" or in any case that it would have been cited among others. And then you tell us that you didn't mention deelstaten or deelgebieden. Still, your comments have been relayed both in the press and on your own website. If you don't accept what you're saying, it's something else. But have the honesty to tell us! Where I fully join you is the fact that we must be able to have – at last – an in-depth and open debate on the structure of our state. But this open debate cannot take place if, at the same time, you give the impression, whatever your actual words, of advocating for a particular model of state, and in doing so, you close the possibility of having such a debate. How do you want to make our state more effective if the Brussels Region, the capital of our country, was somewhere under guardianship? Finally, I must react to the words of my colleague from the N-VA who, it is true, tried to make a declaration of moving love, or not, in the Brussels Region. Except that the N-VA is no secret to anyone, considers Brussels not as a region in its own right, but as a Flemish city, located in Flanders. It's written black and white on his website. I don't think this hypocrisy should be. In any case, it is in no way conducive to the serene debate that we must indeed have on the structure of our State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u18	Question No 55013812C by Mrs Barbara Pas is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u19	Madam President, Minister, the intervention of the last speaker gave me some doubts about the usefulness and impact of such a dialogue platform. At one point, she said, "quels que soient vos propos réels." You have made certain statements, but apparently you are not believed. However, one can simply revisit what you have said, but even that is not enough. I am accused of being hypocritical here, when my repeated statements of opinion and interventions allow me to check the authenticity of the words. However, it seems to be a dialogue platform and I think it is interesting to listen to what others are saying and to respect it. The coalition agreement effectively provides for such a platform. Madam Secretary, is it still intended to conclude this year? That is what you explicitly said when discussing the policy statement. Mr Calvo then asked for an extension of the period, but the answer was that we would do so this year. Is that still the case? How are you getting on with the preparations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u20	Madam Minister, this is a little strange because we have just dealt with the subject in the first part with the current affairs debate. All these questions could have been linked to it, but it's not very serious. In discussions on the policy note, you and Minister Clarinval had announced that the participatory and citizen process of evaluating previous state reforms should close by the end of the year. In the press, there is also an external actor to work on this platform. Today, however, we do not have much information about the shape of this platform, its framework and scope of action, etc. On the other hand, – and we have already talked about it – political agents have made statements about what the next state reform should achieve, even before they have the initial findings. Madam Minister, if you have answered a number of my questions in part in the current day debate, it is, however, lacking in concrete terms for me. Could you give me more information on the platform? How will she organize herself? How will citizens be selected? In what form will the discussions be held? Will there be recommendations? What guarantees will participants have that these recommendations will be followed up? Can you give more information about the external actor? Who is he and what exactly is his role in this work? With regard to the timetable, is it still relevant? Is it really possible to do such substantive work seriously in such a short time and under the sanitary conditions we know?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u21	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the current question is, of course, very much in line with the debate we have just had, but it gives you the opportunity to deepen your response and to clarify your real ambitions, namely to move forward in dialogue with each other. It is therefore logical that a number of Members are now moving towards a state of affairs. There are a number of factors that are currently involved, such as the compelling corona pandemic. We have all discovered the possibilities and pleasures of Zoom, Skype and Teams. However, considering the state reform of the future is not evident through such channels. It requires real dialogue. It requires real dialogue and that we really get to know each other. That's a first factor that's gonna play along. Secondly, what the current majority and you want to do is pioneering work. It is also a trend break, namely an evolution of meetings in castles towards dialogue with civil society, academics and citizens. It is, of course, easier to do things the way we have always done them than to do pioneering work. That is a second factor to be taken into account. A third factor has just been demonstrated, has been underlined by myself and is so important that I would like to emphasise it once again. That is the fact that a sensitive debate requires time. This does not mean that we have to wait a very long time to achieve the first results. However, time is very important for the process of awarding and giving. Madam Secretary, I would like to ask you about a state of affairs. In the end, however, you also asked Parliament a question, which you will mention in your reply shortly. Reference is made to your policy statement. It almost seems as if the dialogue platform is a matter for two ministers. However, you yourself state in your policy statement that Parliament has an important role to play in this matter. If we want to work on consulting citizens, this consultation will have to take place in the Chamber. So it is not just a job for you but also for Parliament. For you and the government there is still some operational preparation of the platform. Poles to a state of affairs also give you an opportunity to outline how you see the interaction with Parliament. We need to get to work on this. That is a responsibility which we Members of Parliament have and which we should not simply place with you, the Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the coalition agreement provides for a broad democratic debate. There are three different dynamics, firstly, that broad democratic debate in itself; secondly, a number of thematic working groups to gather existing expertise on certain topics and analyse the division of competences in these areas; thirdly, a dialogue among political representatives. These three dynamics together can be seen as the dialogue platform. Two processes will be rolled out and developed in order to shape this broad democratic debate and enable civic participation. On the one hand, the government, led by Mr Clarinval and myself, is preparing to launch an online platform. After all, we live in corona times and that will be the case for a while, making it difficult to bring a lot of people together. On the other hand, however, we do not want to waste any time, and we may already be able to start launching an online journey. In this way we can gather and test opinions, recommendations, proposals and suggestions on the future of Belgian federalism and on a number of aspects of democratic renewal. This online platform will certainly cover both the institutional reforms and the democratic renewal. Of course, everyone will be invited, including local authorities, academics, civil society and so on. The practical development of that online platform and the subsequent discussions are ongoing. In addition to the available expertise at the FOD BOSA, we will also attract external expertise to shape that online platform. This concerns, among other things, expertise in the formulation of the issues and questions, but does not define them, so that they are comprehensible to the people who want to participate. Furthermore, it is a good contextualisation of the topics, in order to provide sufficient information to the participants. Such a survey must be informed in order to obtain the best possible result. The themes still need to be defined. It is also conceivable that the citizens themselves will be involved in determining which themes will be developed in a broader and deeper way. The substantive support and expertise that we will use will of course go hand in hand with setting up the process, for which the expertise of process guidance will be called upon, again both from the FOD BOSA and from the content of external expertise. We also need this expertise to support the analysis of the proposals, their interpretation and the preparation of the report. It is a desire to be able to launch this platform in the coming months. Because we need to obtain external expertise, this requires a public contract. The necessary preparations are now being made for this. This also allows us to work on the communication strategy before that platform is launched, so that all citizens of our country can be activated and involved. Of course, in order to reconcile the intentions and ambitions of institutional reform, and to make progress towards 2024, we aim at the end of 2021 to review what the online platform and the first debates have achieved. I would point out that, as far as I am concerned, the final decisions still have to be taken, and that there is certainly a need for debate on democratic renewal and for panel discussions and any other initiatives to be organised by Parliament. Those debates on democratic renewal can then continue in the course of 2022. As far as the costs and funding of that platform and the further panels and mixed panels are concerned, we are making the necessary preparations today, in collaboration with the FOD BOSA. We draw up an overview of the costs and financing. We can tell you more about that later. That is what can happen on the one hand with regard to the broad questioning. On the other hand, as Mr Calvo has said, the government will invite the House of Representatives to set up a deliberative process in the form of citizens' cabinets or mixed panels within the House, which will include both Members of Parliament and citizens selected by lot, as well as the academic world, representatives of civil society and representatives of local authorities. They will start a debate with MEPs to deepen the democratic debate in a different form. The more concrete elaboration concerning, for example, the form, frequency and selection of citizens and experts belongs, of course, to the House, which can indeed take the initiative. These two processes, i.e. the online platform and the debates in the House, are complementary in my view and can feed each other. They will allow for an enriched democratic debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u23	Madam Minister, it is interesting to hear that you are making a distinction between institutional and political renewal, democratic renewal, as you have mentioned. At the same time, you make it clear that the institutional and the link to the dialogue platform is still for this year. Next year will be the debate on democratic renewal, not the institutional one. It is remarkable that we are talking here about dialogue and dialogue platform while this government has two ministers of Democratic Renewal. That may be useful for us, but you need to talk about this within the government. In a government that advocates dialogue and cooperation, it might be interesting that both ministers are present together and that the French-speaking minister is not placed in the waiting room.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u24	Thank you, Madam Minister, for this additional information. I invite you, and invite us, not to neglect this unprecedented process. This is the first time that we are really going to seek the views of citizens on the organisation of our federal state. It's not nothing! This is an indispensable step that must precede any exit of political agents over what should be contained in the next reform. The logical order of things wants us to start by listening before proposing. Of course, we all have an opinion on the matter. For example, as a Brusselser, I didn't like your statements because I understood that they wanted to make me and my neighbours sub-citizens that we don't consider and whose identity we don't recognize. I'm glad to hear you said that you were misunderstood and that that wasn't your intention. My message is this: let us listen first, consider the citizens, take their recommendations into account, and take the time to do serious work! Let's not lock ourselves in an untenable calendar! I am pleased to hear you say that there is also an opportunity to discuss democratic renewal in 2022 and to expand this timetable a little on at least one of the topics. Above all, let us not fall back into the old policy of the inter-self of parties and opaque negotiations. We have two ministers of institutional reforms. The good news is that they are also ministers of democratic renewal. Let us not forget this aspect!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u25	Madam Minister, two things are very much reflected in your reply. First of all, you are determined to achieve results. I'm fine with that. I'm not a lawyer for the slowness, so I certainly don't want to protest against that. I also feel an openness to you to take account of the circumstances and to allow the process the time it needs. This combination of pace and patience is a combination that we must always seek in politics to achieve results. So I certainly have no problem with that, although that seemed to be suggested by Mr Loones. I like that combination. If it is slow, it is up to us to mention it, if it is too fast and participation does not get enough opportunities, then we will send out that signal. We must also look at how we can make it as coherent as possible. We insist on the distinction between Parliament and the government, we are attached to the input of one and the other, but there is actually no such distinction for the participants in the dialogue, for the citizen. It is mainly a search for coherence and cooperation. That is why we need to take time to create sufficient support around the design and the process. After all, there is already a great deal of scepticism about civic participation, including in Parliament's womb. This civic participation may produce results that not everyone likes, and therefore it is important to formalise and discuss the method and the process with each other. It's not just a government contract or process. We must also take a moment in Parliament's lap to avoid criticising the process at the end of the journey, because the results do not make sense either. That is an agreement that we must quickly put on our agenda, both within the majority and in Parliament. This is also a matter of sufficiently rapid progress and, at the same time, of sufficient support. I would invite you to look for that combination around that aspect as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u26	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns the list of articles which are subject to revision. The coalition agreement says that this list will be delivered to Parliament at the beginning of the reigning period. How do you define "at the beginning"?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u27	Madam President, Mr Loones, you have addressed this question both to my colleague, Mr Clarinval, and to myself. I said something about this on 10 February in the Committee on the Interior on a question from Mrs Pas. In any case, it is the government's intention to communicate the list in the short term. You can certainly expect news of this in the short term. I will not mention all the other circumstances of the last few weeks and months as a context, but they have, of course, defined the agenda. We are still working on this and it is my intention to come up with this list in the near future and with further explanations on how we will deal with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u28	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I don't expect the list in the short term, I expect them immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u29	Madam Secretary, an interview has recently been published with your colleague from CD&V, Minister Crevits. I'm sure you've read it. Corona confronts us with huge challenges. How do we ensure that the people who are not working now can be reactivated? How do we ensure that we take into account the needs of the different Communities? Each region has specific characteristics and therefore needs its own policies. I am not just saying that, the government confirms that because the government agreement makes it very explicit that asymmetric policies can be implemented, adapted to the needs of the various Länder. Minister Crevits was asked whether powers should be delegated so that they could pursue their own labour market policy. She said that this could be done but that it was not really necessary, it was enough for the federal government agreement to be implemented which would allow for asymmetric policy. Madam Minister, I have also submitted this question to the Minister of Work, but I would also like to ask you. How will you help the Minister of Work to implement the government agreement so that Mrs Crevits gets what she is asking for, namely what is so well promised in the federal government agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u30	Mr Loones, Minister Crevits rightly points out that labour market policy levers are, on the one hand, the responsibility of the regions, but, on the other hand, the powers of the federal government. It is clear that the vision of this is sometimes different in Wallonia, Brussels and Flanders, such as the training of the temporary unemployed. Pending a more structural reform, the asymmetric exercise of federal powers may be possible. That is why, in January, Minister Clarinval and I addressed a letter to the government's colleagues to identify areas of their policy areas where an asymmetric federal competence can meet the specific needs and dynamics of the Länder. That letter was also addressed to the Federal Minister of Work. From the interview to which you refer, I also understand that the discussions between Ministers Crevits and Dermagne are going well, so that I do not see any specific reason to intervene in this regard in particular or to initiate parallel debates. But like I said, it's definitely on our radar, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u31	It's always interesting that people interpret interviews. I assume that you will undoubtedly talk to Minister Crevits about this live as well. At least that's what I'll do to Minister Dermagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u32	Madam Minister, thank you. We will continue with Minister Clarinval, who is patiently waiting in the corridor, and I thank him for that. I apologise to him for this delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u33	Minister, I'm glad to see you. This issue was originally tabled last October, during the transition between the old and the new firm. She obviously made more sense at the time. To tell you the truth, this was even the first question I tabled as a new Member of Parliament. I find it a bit unfortunate that it was not possible to put it down earlier, despite my contacts with the committee. But that is how it is, and yet it remains an important theme. I'm coming to the bottom. The Vivaldi agreement states that the government will guarantee the preservation of the archives of ministerial offices. This is a good thing because keeping the memory of the decisions and procedures that led to them is indeed an important democratic issue to inform the present and better anticipate the future. Our country has experienced 22 months of instability between day-to-day affairs and special powers. Indeed, in the midst of the political chaos, a social and economic health crisis is still unfolding, unprecedented in its scale and consequences. An enormous amount of work was produced in the emergency by the firms during this period. That is why it is important that we keep track of this particular period. Moreover, the Chovanec case has demonstrated the need to be able to quickly retrieve documents when a failing memory is too commonly invoked by politicians. This is one example among many, which shows that poor management of archives and information undermines transparency and good governance. Minister, the transfer of authority between offices has been taking place for a few months now. This necessarily involves the management of the archives of the old firms. However, the fate of the cabinet archives is currently left to the discretion of each minister. The payment of ministerial records, and hence their preservation, is not governed by any law or decree. Currently, these archives are considered private. As a result, administrative records are often destroyed at every change of government. Fortunately, the government agreement, validated by the agreement of the outgoing ministers, shows that this issue has been understood. Minister, can you tell me what measures have been taken by the various outgoing cabinets on the payment and preservation of their archives? What measures do you put in place in new firms to anticipate, now, the archiving, depositing and retention of new firms' documents pending binding legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u34	Madam President, I refer to my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the decision of the Council of Ministers of 1 June 2007, the government adopted a new directive dated 28 October 2020 for the Secretariats, the Policy Coordination Cell, the Policy Cells, and the Strategic Cells. This decision stipulates that the archives of strategic bodies and secretariats cannot be destroyed. Members of the Government are requested to ensure that, upon taking up their duties, they take the necessary measures to preserve them. At the time of the change of government or of the resignation of a member of the government, such archives must, in the form and in the state in which they were established, be transferred to the General Archives of the Kingdom or to an accredited archives centre under private law. The outgoing government had itself taken the same directive on 23 October 2014. Mrs Rohonyi, as explained at the moment, the outgoing government had already taken the same directive on 23 October 2014. Furthermore, I have not been kept informed of the facts referred to in your question. In parallel with the directive and as foreseen in the government agreement, the government has decided to guarantee the preservation of cabinet archives. Indeed, their preservation and archiving are essential, as Mr Defossé pointed out, for good governance. This allows for a transparent transition to change of government. We will ensure that a legal framework is in place to ensure the preservation of these archives. We will work in consultation with the Prime Minister's Office and the Secretary of State responsible for the Scientific Policy for State Archives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased to hear the guarantees you have taken through these directives. The stakes of the archives are not trivial. In 10, 20 or 30 years, historians will seek to understand how the crisis of the covid-19 was managed; perhaps even, I do not hope, but it is a possibility, to better manage a new crisis that they would be facing. This applies not only to the health crisis, but also to all the powers of the government. So I'm glad to hear you say that you're harmonizing procedures. Today, it seems to me that nothing would prevent a cabinet from bringing in a large garbage dumpster at the end of the legislature and throwing everything away. I hear that's not the case, but I've seen it myself before. It would be terrible for collective memory. Therefore, I encourage you – when I say "you", I'm talking to the whole government – before an initiative even exists, to commit you to maintaining responsible management. You do, and I'm glad.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that a directive was adopted in October 2020 to ensure that the archives of outgoing firms cannot be destroyed. This was an initiative that had already been taken in 2014 for the previous outgoing government. You are announcing that there is a bill in preparation to ensure the preservation of cabinet records, in accordance with the government agreement. This is a very good thing, but I would like to stress the urgency of this bill, an emergency that can be fully met since we are not leaving anything, since we have these directives that were developed in 2014 and 2020. I would like to stress this urgency, because these archives must be kept more than ever, in particular because they allow us to learn very important lessons for the future in view of the exceptional health crisis that we have had to experience. Moreover, the commission dedicated to covid, which was set up in June 2020, stressed the need to keep all the documents of the cabinets, but also of all the administrations, in order to allow the proper conduct of its work, and the informed drafting of its recommendations. But we also find, unfortunately, that there is a real crisis of citizen confidence in the authorities, and a fatigue in respect of the actions of the barrier. This requires more than ever transparency on how decisions have been made and on the basis of those decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic386x.u38	Questions Nos 55012524C, 55012802C and 55014288C by Mr Loones are postponed.
