ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic476x.u1	Mr President, this question was first addressed to Minister Gilkinet, but apparently it was not correct. The question was referred to you, Minister. I understood that the problem had already been dealt with with with you during a previous question session, but there may be new information now. That is why I am happy to put the question to you. Since 1 January 2022, drivers of recreational craft also need a boat licence at sea, not only on inland waterways. In addition, from 1 July 2021, in about six weeks, other examination modalities will apply. There will be a practical examination, while at present only evidence of practical experience has to be presented. Originally, the new examination modalities would start on 1 January 2021. Since the Corona epidemic had suspended many exams and theoretical or practical lessons, the pleasure boating industry asked you to postpone the new system of practical tests. According to an automatic response from the FOD M&V, dating from March, the delay is a matter of principle agreement; the necessary actions to give the delay a legal framework would still be carried out. The changes in the examination methods and the obligation to have a sailing licence at sea led to a huge bottleneck at the examination centres. For example, there are drivers who have been trying to schedule an exam for six months without success. In order to meet the exceptionally high demand for exams, additional exam dates were planned. However, there are still huge queues and the exam centres are full until at least the end of June. Of course, everyone would like to pass the exams before July. In short, due to the inoperative lessons and examinations in 2020, due to the limited capacity of the examination centres, the introduction of new examination modalities from July 2021 and the obligation of a sailing licence at sea from 2022 onwards, many drivers, including years of practical experience, are now facing problems. You are undoubtedly aware of the problem. Have you taken measures to meet this? Where are we on the deferred introduction of the new examination modalities until 1 July 2021? What are your views on the idea of postponing implementation even longer, given the lack of capacity in the examination centres and the difficulties caused by the covid crisis in getting everything organized? How do you account for the current state of affairs with such limited examination capacity?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic476x.u2	Mr. Chair, Minister, to date, to obtain his pleasure boating licence, a simple theoretical examination was required. But as of 1 July 2021, this will no longer be the case. A practical examination will also be required. The problem is that all examination centres are complete until the end of June. As a result of the epidemic, a number of recreational boating activities were temporarily obstructed or suspended last year. This applies not only to examinations but also to theoretical and practical courses. As a result, review centres are currently facing an exceptionally high number of applications for examination. For this reason, additional days of examination have been scheduled in the centres of Ostend, Antwerp and Namur. These additional days were quickly reserved, leaving no further opportunities for the people concerned to take this famous exam before 1 July 2021. Minister, would it be possible to postpone the entry into force of this new system of practical testing for pleasure craft? Could additional review days be scheduled again in some centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic476x.u3	The reform of pleasure shipping legislation has already been launched under the previous government, in close consultation with the sector. The Law of 5 July 2018 introduced the mandatory certificate, which is necessary to be able to sail at sea from 1 January 2022. This obligation concerns only recreational craft larger than 15 metres or faster than 20 km/h. This is the same obligation that applies to inland waterways. The Implementing Decision was adopted on 28 June 2019. Between the decision to introduce a compulsory licence at sea and the actual entry into force is almost four years. Furthermore, it was stipulated that anyone who passed the theoretical examination before 1 January 2021 should not take a practical test. This date was postponed to 1 July 2021 at the request of the sector and for the sake of the corona measures. However, we are now finding that there is a rush to the examination centres, where people often wish to take part in the exam unprepared, mainly in order to obtain the hunting licence in order not to have to take the mandatory practical test. Of course, we are aware of the problem that there is currently a great deal of demand for additional dates to pass the test. However, I would like to point out that my services have already taken more examinations during this period of corona than in normal times. For example, in the period from March 2019 to February 2020, just under 18,524 exam slots were provided. In the period from March 2020 to February 2021, in full corona time, there were 20,488 exam slots. During the corona year, therefore, more customers were served than in a regular year. By postponing the introduction of the practical test from 1 January to 1 July 2021, even more enthusiasts will be able to pass their exams. In addition, I also asked my services to examine whether the examination centres could open additional days between now and 1 July 2021. After all, we note that there are still a lot of dates available after these dates on which exams can be taken. Mr Van den Bergh, the legal framework was introduced with the Royal Decree of 28 December 2020 and is therefore already in force. Would it be possible to further delay the entry into force of this new system? A further postponement is not envisaged. Starting July 1 of this year, we will move on to a system of practical tests. The schools of navigation which will pass these tests are busy preparing them. They are currently being audited by my services for their accreditation as practical examination centres. The sector has been informed for a long time. I've been talking about four years. An additional six months has already been granted. At some point, the new system must come into force. As far as your fourth question is concerned, my services have made every effort and even managed to provide more for 2,000 exams in difficult times. The question is simply extraordinary. There is apparently an unfounded fear that obtaining a licence after 1 July would become more difficult, quod non. As for the question of the supplementary examination day, as I told Ms. Zanchetta, I asked my services to consider whether the examination centres could provide for additional opening days. Of course, we must ensure that this is not done at the expense of other tasks and obligations. However, I would like to point out that the fear of passing the practical examination is unfounded. For boaters already active at sea, the practical test will be a child's play. For those who begin to sail at sea, this practical test will provide the necessary skills to take the sea with confidence. The sea is increasingly frequented, so boaters' safety must go first and foremost.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic476x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As you say, the legislation is indeed a number of years old and the transitional period has taken quite a long time. Sometimes it takes a while before people are aware of new regulations and often people take a wait-and-see attitude at the beginning and look the cat out of the tree, after which everyone when the deadline arrives still wants to pass the exams quickly, causing congestion. Efforts have indeed already been made to provide additional examination dates. The circumstances of the past few years have not been evident and I note your commitment to allow your services to organise additional exams. I hope that this will enable us to respond to the existing question. It would be good if people who have been sailing with the necessary skills and knowledge for years could still obtain their boating license in this simplified way. I therefore urge the organisation of additional exams.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic476x.u5	Mr Minister, thank you for your answer, which was obviously expected by the people concerned, many in my region. If I understand you correctly, additional dates will be provided, even if the boaters have already undertaken the maximum. I can already reassure those who fear, despite many years of experience in boating, to have to pass this famous practical test.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic476x.u6	Mr Sander Loones is not present for his question No. 5557516C, which expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic476x.u7	Mr President, Minister, the discharge of paraffin has been prohibited since 1 January 2021. However, reports continue to come in. At the beginning of April 2021, for example, there was another report of washed-up paraffin on Belgian beaches. That was the second time in a month. It's by brushing transport ships that that paraffin ends up in our sea. Paraffin is a chemical substance. Where the paraffin comes exactly from, given the ban on discharge, it is unclear. I was present too early in committee because I am extremely interested in the previous subject, given my professional past. I have heard that, among other things, Mr Van den Bergh has already asked questions about this. I pointed out that the origins are unclear. Paraffin in itself is not dangerous, but especially the chemicals around the paraffin are dangerous, especially for animals, of course for wild animals but also for pets, such as dogs, who are on the beach massively and would dare to eat things. Mr Minister, I have a few questions about this. Is there now more clarity about the origin of the paraffin found on our beaches over the last few months? Are there any other reports other than the reports that the press have received from alarms from beachjutters and people who like to clean up the beach, for which I would like to thank them? Have there been any other sightings or complaints? How is the ban specifically enforced?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic476x.u8	Mr President, Mr Pillen, firstly, the scientists of the Management Unit Mathematical Model of the North Sea or MUMM have conducted a study on the origin of paraffin. They use different parameters, such as wind direction, wind strength and current. They have thus tried to trace the origin of the paraffin back to a ship which may have caused the discharge. Unfortunately, however, the investigation has not produced any results. The suspicion arose that it was old remnants, which have been in the sea for months and have been washed up on our beaches by the strong north wind that has plagued our country and our parts. Second, no other cases were observed or reported between 1 January 2021 and 31 March 2021. Even after 8 April 2021 there have been no more observations or complaints. You also asked how control is exercised. The prohibition on discharge is included in the Royal Decree of 15 June 2020. The control was granted to two of my services, namely MUMM, but also to the Directorate-General for Shipping. MUMM is responsible for air surveillance over the areas of the Belgian sea. If, during a flight, they find traces of pollution and can be directly linked to a particular ship by reason of the ship's discharge, or indirectly, by modelling, then the DG Shipping shall be informed accordingly. If the ship then sails to a Belgian port, an inspection shall be carried out to determine the circumstances under which the discharge was carried out. In the case of a prohibited discharge, a PV shall be drawn up with a view to a criminal or administrative fine of up to EUR 8 million. If the ship sails to a foreign port, the next port city will be notified and will be responsible for the inspection of the ship. If the results of that inspection are transferred to the Maritime DG, then my services can also draw up a PV in the event of a prohibited discharge, even if the ship has been sailed only through Belgian waters. In addition to these checks, the DG Shipping also inspects ships docking in Belgian ports. These inspections shall check whether a ship has carried goods as paraffin on board and thus had it cleaned well. It checks whether the washing water was delivered to a port and was not discharged at sea. This is a documentary check, with the necessary invoices and logbooks to be submitted. If it is established that a ship is unable to submit these documents, a CV shall also be drawn up. Finally, I would also mention the reports received by MUMM from CleanSeaNet, a system of the European Maritime Safety Agency, based in Lisbon. CleanSeaNet detects a possible contamination on the basis of satellite images, after which MUMM detects the ship that caused the pollution via air surveillance or modelling.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic476x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for the very full answer. It is good that we ban things like the discharge of all kinds of chemical crap into the sea, but in your answer you show that there is also a whole chain behind it. Although the ban is difficult to enforce, a chain has been set up to detect and fine offenders. Now the many competent authorities in this country still have to communicate that it is better not to touch such a thing and to avoid the dog eating it. There's still room for improvement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic476x.u10	Mr Minister, my question is very brief. On 3 April, the "Together for Water" survey was launched by the FPS Mobility DG, including on the social media under the hashtag together. I want to get a pulse on the initial results. How many people have been involved? Will the FPS Mobility make the results of the survey public? In what way will you deal with the results of that survey?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic476x.u11	Mr Pillen, "Together on the water" was a joint initiative of Mr Gilkinet and myself and was supported by the organisations and federations active in the pleasure shipping sector. We can already speak of a great success. This survey included 2,806 people, including 1,872 Dutch speakers and 934 French speakers. So you can see: the sea belongs to everyone, of all Belgians. Are the results of this survey made public? Yes. The results are currently being analysed and will be made available to the public in June. How will we use these results? In addition to the survey, a digital idea box was also designed within the Maritime DG to give a voice to ideas emerging after the survey. This idea bus was distributed among the clubs and federations that work on pleasure and water sports, and gives it the opportunity to report proposals. The results of the survey, combined with other information, will be incorporated into a multi-annual action plan to promote pleasure shipping. The intention is to present this plan to the public at the Brussels Boat Show, which will undoubtedly take place physically, with a lot of boats and with a lot of people without a mouth mask, in the autumn of 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic476x.u12	Minister, I look forward, perhaps with you, to going to that Brussels Boat Show. I'm guessing it's going on every two years? It's always very impressive what you can see there. Dialogue with the sectors for which you are competent has always been your flagship. I think it is very positive that you have taken this initiative together with your colleague Mr Gilkinet. The fact that almost 3,000 people participated in the survey on such short notice is fantastic news. Now get to work on the results!
