ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic373x.u1	Madam Secretary of State, I have had problems with the train, but I have arrived here just in time to put my question on Parliament's main committee, in particular the Committee on Budgets. This is also reflected in 'the wide interest of colleagues and the many questions that are being put here'. The budget debate held at the end of last year was a solid debate. However, I note that colleagues seem to prefer to join the current Minister of the Budget, Mr Dermine, because he can hand out a few billion euros. Apparently, that attracts extra attention. Nevertheless, I am very pleased that you are here, the real Secretary of State for the Budget. I had doubts about asking this question about the corona vaccines. At the end of last year, we have already had the debate on it. I ask the question, not so much because of a few figures which I would like to hear from you, but because of the principle. Last year's debate was not so much about vaccines as about the symptomatic use of budget fees. I had already made that point when the representatives of the European Commission presented their evaluation here. The Court of Auditors didn't have an answer to that either. I made that remark on the occasion of the policy statement, but there was no response at that time either. At the end of the day, it was communicated in plenary. Madam Secretary of State, what exactly was ordered? What has been paid and how will that be paid? Can we not agree for this new year that these commissions would not be used to that extent? I think that's the more fundamental discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic373x.u2	Mr Loones, you can ask all the questions and I will try to answer them as far as possible. These corona times require a special way of working. Through the distribution decision 20 of 24 December 2020, an amount of EUR 279.1 million was made available to the Public Health Office in commitments. Earlier, 25.7 million had already been made available to the European Commission's ESI Fund for the purchase of vaccines. Apart from this 25.7 million advance to the European Fund, no settlement has been made so far. As far as the state of supply is concerned, I propose that this question be put to the Minister for Health, because I do not have any further details. When drawing up the initial budget, a corona commission was indeed entered in the 2021 budget for €907 million. As I said earlier in this committee, we are following up on the corona commission and its use very closely. An adjustment sheet will be submitted before normal budgetary control to increase the corona commission. It will be discussed in detail in the Commission on 27 April 2021. So you will get all the data on the corona commission and to which it is issued. I attach great importance here to transparency. In any case, it must be made clear that any lack of budgetary resources for vaccines or other matters should not hinder the planned vaccination strategy. For the time being, that problem doesn't arise either. It is also my intention to give the committee a regular review of the implementation in 2021. This will be done for the first time on 24 February, but it will be followed closely afterwards and information will be provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic373x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, it is important that we have these facts, but that is not the essence of the discussion. After all, we all knew that the vaccines ordered would also be paid, that there would be a budget for that. The question was just about the need for transparency and security. I very much appreciate your renewed commitment to ensuring transparency, but I would like to make two comments. Firstly, I immediately submitted a written request to obtain a large number of data on the covid commission. Last week I received an answer that actually meant that I would have to wait until 24 February. There is a time limit within which written questions must be answered and I have received the answer just at the end of that period. On February 24th, I would receive the information requested. I am not making a huge point of this, and that is part of the political game in all honesty. You will no doubt have thought that it was not necessary to give the N-VA that information if you can give it to everyone at once. I'm mature enough to deal with that. The second point, however, is more serious. You have already announced that there will be a request to increase the corona commission. Madam Secretary of State, we really need to get rid of that. We fully agree that expenditure and investment must be made in the fight against corona, but that cannot be done through the commission. In the meantime, we must be able to assess perfectly how many vaccines we will need in the coming months. We can change the budget perfectly for that and draw a credit for it, so that it becomes transparent and secure. In uncertain times, that's important. I know you feel the same way. That's what the discussion was about. Madam Secretary of State, take a number of things out of the commission and assign them a specific credit, then there is no discussion. Of course, you must continue to provide a commission for flexibility, that is not a problem. However, certain expenditure must certainly be allocated. As long as that does not happen, you cannot really speak of transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic373x.u4	Madam Secretary of State, the European Union comes up with a whole range of means of recovery which are distributed among the Member States according to certain parameters, not always the right ones. All attention is paid to the EUR 750 billion fund, with grants and loans, managed by Mr Dermine. There is also the Brexit Fund. When I submitted the question, it wasn't clear who would get what share. In the meantime, a political deal has been made on that. I'd like to update the question. I understand that most of the funds will be financed by the Länder. My question is, are you Mrs Brexit? Or is that also Mr Dermine? It would be interesting to know that division of labour.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic373x.u5	Mr Loones, I do not think that your last question was submitted in writing, but I will first give a general answer. The European Commission submitted the Brexit Adjustment Reserve Regulation to the European Parliament on 13 January. The European Commission's proposal on the allocation of resources is still under discussion. At the moment, it is not clear how quickly the talks will be concluded. In order to be able to pay out the pre-financing by 2021, the Regulation should enter into force by the end of June at the latest. The documents published by the European Commission show that Belgium is entitled to advance payments from this fund for a total amount of 324.15 million euros or 7.6 % of the total amount of 4.25 billion euros. This is the fourth highest amount after Ireland, the Netherlands, Germany and France. Of these, some 262.01 million euros are reserved for trade with the United Kingdom or 7.3 % of the total amount of 3.61 billion euros. In addition, the proposal provides for pre-financing of EUR 62.14 million for Belgium on the basis of fishing in the UK's exclusive economic zone. This represents 9.8 % of the total €636,73 million foreseen for fishing. In the meantime, political agreement was reached with the Communities and the Regions on the allocation of these resources. This has already been reported by the press, but official communication on this subject remains to be seen. For this purpose, the formal adoption and distribution of the Brexit Adjustment Reserve at European level should be awaited. So that communication was a little premature, but as soon as that information is available, you will get it. I don't think either I or Mr. Dermine are Mrs. or Ms. Brexit. The Brexit Fund is dealt with by the federal government, but also very much by the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic373x.u6	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, we now know the deal and its amount. I remember the discussions in this committee and in the plenary, where the government always said with regard to the Brexit Fund that 'the means of recovery will be there, but that will not be all, we will get extra money'. I then built up arguments with Minister of Foreign Affairs Wilmès, who basically said that we would get almost a billion euros. That was not contradicted at the time. On the contrary, it was convenient for Mrs Wilmès' political discourse to pretend that we would get a lot from the European Union. It's only a few hundred million euros. That's nice, but it's only a few hundred million euros. Compare this with the trade relations between Belgium and the United Kingdom, which you know well, where Belgium exports around EUR 29 billion to the United Kingdom every year, France EUR 31 billion. That's about the same amount. So we could have gotten some more. That was my first point, but that is a European debate and there is nothing you can do about it. Secondly, it is good to hear that it is not yet completely definitive. That is what we have also heard from Mr Dermine. Only when the plans for the Recovery Fund go to the European Commission in April will we have a final list. That's the logic itself. Finally, the most serious question is: who is responsible for this issue? I have said it a little playful, but it is very serious, because of which, of course, depends on how a number of resources will be spent. It is logical that the Länder should be given access to another job when it comes to leading people to another job, because they are responsible for labour market policy, at least in that area. I would like to hear how the government will deal with that, because that will explain the focus. Will it also be digitization tools, labour market resources, or will the money go to finance and customs? It's interesting to have another look at that internally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic373x.u7	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, my question may no longer be relevant to what I have understood in recent days, but at the time I tabled it, it was a question of stating the time taken by the Finance Inspector to validate Phase II of the Vottem Masterplan, which is essential for federal police officers. He had this file since July 2020. A few days ago, he had not yet given an opinion on this file. In the meantime, he would have done it. Madam Secretary of State, do you confirm that the inspector has given his opinion and that then the file will be able to move forward? If not, could you press the Finance Inspectorate to get an answer as quickly as possible because the daily lives of hundreds of police officers are suspended in this opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic373x.u8	Madam President, Mr Rigot, the opinion on the second phase of work in Vottem was issued on January 7, 2021 by the Finance Inspectorate, accredited to the Régie des Bâtiments. The note by which the request for an opinion was submitted dated 7 July 2020, so that it can indeed be established that the deadline for the processing of this file at the Finance Inspectorate is six months. The Chief of Staff of the Finance Inspectorate was informed orally on 4 January 2021 that the file had not yet been targeted. He provided me with the following information. First, despite the exceptional nature of the long processing time of this file and the mitigating circumstances that can be partly explained here – submission during the summer vacation, high workload due to the impact of the covid-19 pandemic at Fedasil, where the same financial inspector is also accredited, and a limited presence due to sick leave – the Chief of Staff is of the opinion that such long deadlines do not meet the condition that the notice should be issued within a reasonable time. Secondly, in order to avoid such findings in the future and despite the fact that the regulation on administrative and budgetary control does not contain a period of notice, the Chief of Staff, with the agreement of the Finance Inspectorate Board, sent an instruction note on 13 January 2021 to all financial inspectors so that all files, regardless of their complexity and whether or not there is a peak period, would receive an opinion formulated within a reasonable period of time. On the basis of this exceptional case, the Chief of Staff of the Finance Inspectorate immediately took steps to cover these risks with reasonable certainty in the future. Mr Rigot, I therefore confirm that the opinion on this matter was prepared a few days ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic373x.u9	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I am very pleased to see that the matter will be able to move forward now. It is now up to the Council of Ministers to put it on the agenda and to unlock the necessary resources for this phase II to be committed. These EUR 100 million are important for the comfort of the police, and also economically for the region of Liège. Thank you for your vigilance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic373x.u10	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, a further question on the budget deficit is about to come. We've seen the communication this week. The deficit is about €45 billion for all public authorities together. For the federal government, it's about 32 billion euros. That's huge. I've read your articles saying that you're awake at night. I have to admit, I do, too. At the same time, we are all looking at the extent to which the figures in a crisis context can or cannot be properly estimated, as well as the additional risks and exposures that may still exist. That's why I'm asking my question about dividends. Each budget is somewhat influenced by dividends from the National Bank of Belgium and other institutions. That's what my question is about. Can it be estimated whether those dividends will be available in 2021 and in what quantity? What do we do if we do not? I am asking my question because the European Central Bank is also pursuing a policy today, asking a number of financial and other institutions to hold on to cash or money, to literally hibernate the crisis. After all, many people see black snow. This also means that less dividends are paid. On the other hand, we note that, as a result of a change in dividend policy, uncertainties also arise in the financial sector. Investors are less willing to invest in banks because there will be no dividend. That is rather a discussion for the Minister of Finance, but you may also be concerned about that. How do we ensure that our financial system remains robust and that the revenue for the budget is guaranteed at the same time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic373x.u11	Madam President, Mr Loones, these revenue is entered in the budget of the European Communities under Rule 5 of the Rules of Procedure. 18.01.21.28.20.01, entitled "Dividends of the State's holdings in financial institutions'. EUR 22.337 million was entered in the initial budget. This amount was obtained by starting from a general linear trajectory until 2023 to the anticipated pre-corona crisis condition. This article deals with direct holdings in financial institutions. In recent years dividends have been received or provided with shares mainly in BNP Paribas and Belfius, and to a lesser extent in Ethias and Royal Park Investments. The holdings managed by the FPIM for its own account are not included in the article mentioned herein. The result of the FPIM therefore allows indirect revenue from participations in financial institutions to be entered in the budget. In Article No. 18.01.21.28.20.04,'share of the State in the result of the National Bank of Belgium', was included in the initial budget of EUR 399,752 million. This is the same amount as before 2020. This concerns both the part of the State in the profit for the financial year and the dividend granted to the State after decision of the general meeting. The estimate was made in June 2020. There was still a great lack of clarity about the impact of corona on dividends for the coming years. Finance could not make a detailed estimate per institution, which is understandable. It was then simply assumed that starting from 0 in 2020, income from dividends would grow again in three steps to the level of 2019. The amount registered for 2021 is therefore equal to that of 2019 divided by three. We are obviously going to have to look at this again in budgetary control. As regards your other questions, as Secretary of State for the Budget, I do not wish to comment on the ECB's recommendation. It is not easy to estimate now the precise impact of that recommendation on government revenues. The profits of 2020 are not yet known, neither are the dividends, and it is therefore not certain whether the financial institutions will follow that recommendation. It concerns companies, sometimes even listed companies, with their own decision-making process in relation to the granting of dividends. The government is dependent on that process and will therefore be informed of the dividend once the competent bodies have made their decision known. It is also noted that the recommendation will be made until 30 September 2021, with subsequent catch-up movements being possible. For the National Bank of Belgium, the arguments can also be cited in the previous paragraph. We are therefore waiting for the decisions of the companies themselves to be taken, but we will have to keep that under close review and, of course, we will have to follow up on budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic373x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, frankly, I did not really expect an answer to the questions about the ECB. Because they're asking to pulse the temperature. Actually, we're a little new: I'm new as a Member of Parliament and you're also new in your position. It's always good to know where the focus points are. I remember from your answer that you also emphasize the financial institutions themselves and the way they are organised. I find that in itself valuable information to hear, without putting words in your mouth, but I share that focus and I am sure you have my support in that regard. As far as the amounts are concerned, I understand that you have already introduced some caution into the budget, which makes sense in the current uncertain times. You also announce that this will be adjusted in the context of budgetary control. This is in line with the previous point: the more transparent, the better. If we're even deeper into the misery, then we better just know and come out with it, because then we can work with it, rather than putting it out for us. A precise overview of everything that was rolled in in 2020 in relation to what was budgeted may be interesting. Shall I put a new question on this, or can you give me that information in another way? I suppose a lot of colleagues are interested in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic373x.u13	I'll have a look at what can already be made available to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic373x.u14	Maybe we can discuss that at the next committee meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic373x.u15	Here in Parliament, I give the general answer, as a representative of the government. In corona times we can now do little in walkways, but there I would like to say a little more about my personal view on certain things. In committee, however, we must stick to the government's position.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic373x.u16	I have every respect for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic373x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, the most important question at the moment is how big the budget is. There were some communications about this last week, which have just been cited. The deficit of the joint budgets, i.e. federal level, the Länder and the lower administrations, is now estimated at almost EUR 45 billion. With the federal government and social security, there is a deficit of about 32 billion euros. However, I noticed something and perhaps I should have put it more explicitly in the question. Wouter Verschelden estimated the deficit for the entire government at EUR 45 billion two days ago in 8AM Wetstraat Insider, the newsletter, and according to you, EUR 35 billion of this is due to the coronapandemic. I haven't found any more information on that, so it would be good if you could give it to me. What about the budget? Can you explain which part of the deficit is due to the corona crisis and which part is not, because there was, of course, a budget deficit before the corona crisis began?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic373x.u18	Madam President, I will address my reply to all the members of the committee. After all, to answer Mr Loones' question, my services had prepared a brief presentation in order to reflect the provisional implementation figures for 2020. In my view, explanations of the figures are easier to follow if the figures tables are projected. However, the secretariat has informed me that a presentation in response to an oral question is not allowed. I therefore ask you to follow the tables and figures on the PDF documents made available. At least I hope they have been made available. We do have a copy, but it is not easy for the members at home. In any case, we will begin to reply, because I only have seven minutes to speak. First of all, a few preliminary remarks. The estimates were closed at the end of January. The results are therefore still provisional and may evolve in the coming months. In April, there will be CIM's first estimate. In October, there will be the publication of the general government and GDP 2020 accounts taken into account, estimated at EUR 446.7 billion. The GDP taken into account corresponds to GDP from the autumn estimate of the National Bank of 14 December 2020. It amounts to EUR 446 billion. On Thursday 11 February 2021, the Federal Planning Office will publish its economic budget with a new estimate of GDP. On Friday 12 February, the National Bank of Belgium will publish its annual report. On Thursday 11 February, the European Commission will also publish its winter forecast of 2021. You will see that in the coming week there will be a lot of news about the economic parameters and estimates. For the sources we used, estimates for entity A are based on estimates provided by the various institutions and those available from FEDCOM. Estimates for the Communities and Regions are based on a survey of each entity. For the local government estimate, the National Bank's autumn forecast has been repeated. Mr Loones asks if I can confirm the budget deficit of the joint government. The budget deficit can be seen in the first column of the table on the PDF document. I'll make sure everyone gets it. In the first column, you will see the achievements of 2019, in the second column, the projected deficit of 2020 in the budget format of 2021 and in the third column, the preliminary estimate of the deficit of 2020. The estimated deficit of the combined gross general government deficit is EUR 44.86 billion. Expressed as a percentage, this is a deficit of 10,04% of GDP. The result is therefore slightly less bad than in the preparation of the 2021 budget. The estimated deficit of entity 1, i.e. the federal government and social security, is €32.15 billion. This is a 7,20% deficit compared to GDP. The estimated deficit of entity 2, i.e. Communities, Regions and local authorities, is EUR 12.72 billion, i.e. a deficit of -2.85% of GDP. The direct corona impact for entity 1 at the end of January is estimated at €15.1 billion. This means that at the end of 2020 the debt ratio is 115.1% compared to GDP. The division between the federal government and social security provides a distorted picture, as the alternative financing during the drafting of the end-of-year estimate is kept constant at the level of what was included in the general budget statement 2021. More details regarding the federal government can also be read in the documents you will receive. It also contains more information on revenue, interest charges, primary expenditure and exemptions from the farm levy. There is therefore an improvement in the balance of claims of EUR 2.9 billion compared to the estimate in the general notes on the accounts. Important differences from the general explanatory memorandum are tax revenue with a surplus of EUR 1.3 billion. This is divided into corporate tax, EUR 1.4 billion higher, corporate tax, EUR 0.5 billion higher, natural companies, EUR 0.6 billion lower than expected, advance payments, EUR 0.2 billion more and withholding tax, EUR 0.2 billion less. Primary expenditure is also slightly lower, namely EUR 0.8 billion. The underutilisation is EUR 1.6 billion compared to the general explanatory memorandum, which was based on EUR 0.85 billion. The expenditure exemptions from farm withholding tax are minus 0.6 billion euros. A further detail of social security will also be sent to you. For social security, there is a decrease compared to 2019 in the social contribution and a significant increase in government donations. The sharp increase in social security expenditure is also corona-related. As regards entity 2, the data of each region may not be published in consultation with the Communities and Regions. The communication of the balance belongs to the relevant Minister for the Budget or the sub-governments. You have good contacts there, Mr Loones. I think you'll have that information, too. The other members of the committee may also request that information there. The PDF document was forwarded to all members of the committee. It's got all the tables in it. If you have any questions, you can reassure them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic373x.u19	Madam Secretary of State, I am delighted to thank you for the transparency you have shown by providing all my fellow Members with the necessary tables in response to an oral question. This is not customary in Parliament, but certainly commendable. I have a few comments to make. Firstly, I was already surprised at the amounts of EUR 35 billion compared to EUR 32 billion, which were mentioned. I believe that the fact that the federal government is talking about a sum of EUR 15 to 16 billion, which is lower, is good news in itself. After all, we have less expenditure on corona. On the other hand, of course, it means that structural deficits are much higher than I thought. If the deficit is EUR 32 billion and a huge amount of it is due to the corona pandemic, that would mean that our budget, when we make abstraction of the corona impact, was reasonably in order. But that doesn't seem to be the case. If we withdraw from the federal deficit of EUR 32 billion the amount for the corona crisis, which is between EUR 15 and EUR 16 billion, then we are turning EUR 16 billion into red. Of course, the indirect effects of the corona crisis will also be taken into account, but it is still not a good thing, even if you have no responsibility for it. We have to agree on that. The fact that corona expenditure is lower does not mean that the budgetary challenge is therefore lower. Secondly, I'm going to go over the debt rate in your sixth slide. You are right to point out that the next week will be a number week. A lot of them are coming. Last week there was already an interesting publication by the European Commission, The Debt Sustainability Monitor, in which the Commission starts from the same hypothesis as we heard here a few months ago, namely that our debt rate will increase further. I note that this is again not the case in your tables. There is therefore a tension between the figures your services use and the figures of the European Commission. Of course, it can have major consequences, if you give only a small turn to one parameter. But it would be a good thing if that were cleared up. It is not funny when our services and the European Commission say different things. Finally, in the case of primary expenditure, I do not need an answer here to say that underutilisation is twice as high as initially estimated. It will not have been a conscious policy last year, because there was no government. The underutilisation may have been due to the fact that there was no full government for a long time. It would be interesting to have an insight into the politics that you wish to conduct around it. After all, we have already talked about this. Your budget goes to shreds. Anything that could be budgeted is budgeted. There are no more margins. There are arguments for this, but the consequence is that there are indeed no margins. Typically, the policy of underutilisation is first looked at. We will certainly discuss your intentions about this later. The government is part of parties which, among other things, want to spend mainly and consider purchasing power to be important. This may also mean that it will not be possible to look immediately at underutilisation, but I hope that this could be the case, even if it is only to give you five minutes of extra night's sleep.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic373x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, this is the most political question of all. I'll give you that, too. I look forward to your answer, but you will undoubtedly say that the coalition agreement is your reference. What's going on? All governments have huge deficits due to corona. This is combined with an ultra-lake monetary policy of the European Central Bank. The whole story is known. The result is that there are a lot of debts. Now 150 economists, some politicians and even a party chairman, PS President Magnette, say that these debts have been incurred, that they should be swept over and that we should pretend that there are simply no debts. I think that is a very special question. The answer on the left side is always that it is okay for us to go into debt, because we are still borrowing at very favourable rates and that we really should not worry about that. But apparently we have to worry enough about wiping them all out. There's a certain tension field there that's not very coherent. Either it is not important and then that is their discourse, or it is important and then one can discuss how that is handled. Mr Magnette is not entirely consistent in his reasoning there. It would be interesting to know at least whether this has been discussed within the government, in the coalition agreement or in an atoma notebook, which will undoubtedly not exist, but let us call a cat a cat. Has there been talk or not of what debt policy will be pursued by your government? This is, of course, important for our budget, but also, and that is the wider story, for the credibility of the euro. Personally, that's my biggest concern. If we send out a signal on international monetary markets that we are not actually guaranteeing the repayment of our debts, even if they are internal debts, then that is not the best signal to underpin the credibility of the euro. If you borrow money, it's best to pay it back.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic373x.u21	Mr Loones, I read the same articles as you read in the newspapers. This theme has not yet been discussed in the government. I would also like to refer you in the future to Mr Van Peteghem, who, as Minister for Finance, is responsible for debt management. The position to be expressed by the government must first be determined within the government. My personal opinion is that debt forgiveness for the government is always a bad signal. A sound fiscal policy gives more confidence. The cancellation of debts and that money then re-spend, as proposed, could lead to unlimited money creation. Then why should the government still hold back? The possibility of derailed inflation seems to be real. The European Commission has temporarily given up budgetary standards. Before the covid crisis, a discussion had already started on the possible adjustment of that European budgetary framework. Undoubtedly, this discussion will be restarted soon. We need to simplify the existing complex system, which is ultimately only understood by specialists. The initial rules of 3 % deficit and 60% debt are known to everyone, but about the current rules and their applications, specialists must always be included. The new context must certainly be considered. Direct savings would damage the recovery of our economy. I'm sure of it. The sustainability of debt must be guaranteed, not just for the sake of European standards. In the past, I have said that we will always try to enroll and comply with ourselves in the European context. Apart from that framework, we must bear in mind the sustainability of debt. In the past, I have also said that I am concerned about the growing debt, despite the need for the measures taken, especially those relating to corona. It is therefore necessary to simplify, but not to relax in the long or medium term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic373x.u22	Madam Secretary of State, I have a few brief points for reply. Firstly, I did indeed submit the question to Mr Van Peteghem. It will be discussed this afternoon or tomorrow, if we get this far, given the time it takes to include the question in the agenda. Secondly, I have noted very clearly that you are replying that such dossiers must first be determined within the government, which is reassuring, but then not. It is reassuring, because it has not yet been decided. However, it is not reassuring, also because it has not yet been decided and it will have to be fought within the government. I assume that you also realise that a government will not agree to anything if not all partners agree and that, if a point is not in the coalition agreement, the one who asks is always in a weak position, even if it is the largest party in the coalition. However, that is a political statement. Thirdly, you give some very interesting points. I appreciate your openness to your more personal vision. This should be possible and should not be challenged or should not give rise to games. We all look to reality with our own ideology and vision of society. You do say a number of clear words, such as sound budgetary policies and the risk of derailed inflation. These are matters which I personally share, but which were also shared by Mr De Croo when he was Minister of Finance. Then we sat here in the same committee room and asked him the same questions. Mr De Croo was certainly not the biggest fan of the European Central Bank's lax monetary policy when he was Minister of Finance. Today it may be different. One final point I would like to make is your comment, which I appreciate, that we must take into account the sustainability of debt and not just for the sake of European standards. I find that interesting for two reasons. First of all, we need to do our own homework. You clearly confirm that. We do not need an external enemy. Let us show our own responsibility. Secondly, the European Union deserves to be better than the bogeyman of the Member States. It is all too easy to say that we must do so from Europe, where everyone must be angry at Europe. European cooperation does not deserve this and deserves a little more respect in this respect. It will be good to be able to show that respect together.
