ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u1	Colleagues, I apologize for being late. A lot of things have to be finished before the recess. Mr Van den Bergh and Mrs Buyst, SNCB informs me that it is fully engaged in expanding the international offer in today's vending machines. Since 1 June, the offer in the vending machines of Antwerp and the Noorderkempen to the Netherlands has been expanded. At the same time, there are projects for the renewal of SNCB vending machines which will offer much more flexibility with regard to foreign supply. SNCB and the NS each determine the price of the ticket in their territory. The total price is the sum of both components in cross-border traffic. SNCB applies exactly the same rates as in the domestic market. No additional charge is currently charged. SNCB and the NS are already largely partners today and the teams involved in the two companies are constantly consulting. SNCB is, of course, prepared to continue and improve this cooperation where it is necessary and possible. SNCB always strives for a harmonised offer with the NS. The teams concerned are constantly consulting to harmonise the offer. SNCB and the NS are currently preparing to continue the existing relationship between Brussels and Amsterdam in order to intensify it. In addition, two months ago, the specifications of the future public service mission were published on the FPS Mobility website, including the existing connections with Roosendaal and Maastricht, but also the connection with Breda. SNCB discusses the project 'Three Land Trains' with its Dutch counterpart. In addition, SNCB is currently examining the possibility of raising awareness in order to bring the provision of short cross-border train connections to the attention of passengers. Of course, this only applies if the evolution of the sanitary crisis continues to be favourable. As regards cooperation with the Dutch services concerned in the area of rail links between the two countries, on 21 April I myself had a pleasant meeting with my Dutch colleague, State Secretary of Veldhoven. During this meeting, it was decided to update the 2016 cooperation agreement. In the meantime, there has already been a first meeting with representatives of the Dutch Ministry, our Belgian administration and my cabinet. Apart from the initiative to update the content, the meetings of the bilateral steering group, set up under the cooperation agreement, naturally continue. The feedback I receive from the participants indicates the positive will of both countries to cooperate. At the same time, however, it also points to the difficulties that the historical choice of different technical systems on both sides of the border now entails. After all, it remains difficult to let a train just drive in another country. However, I believe in the future of the train as the backbone of mobility in Belgium and for transport to neighbouring countries. I have therefore asked my teams in the administration and my cabinet to do everything in their power to make progress in this area. I believe in them and, of course, in the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u2	Thank you, Minister, for your faith in the train and in cooperation with the Dutch Railways. Nor do I doubt the good will on both sides of the border to continue to do so. However, this is still considered to be international train traffic. Within Europe, for the regional areas that arise in border regions, we should no longer regard this as international rail traffic, but as something that is normal. A train crossing the border still doesn't seem normal. Historical and technical differences have a lot to do with this, but we still need to take further steps to make it work. I am pleased that you have had a nice acquaintance with Mrs van Veldhoven. Unfortunately, she has announced her resignation in the meantime, because she will face a new challenge from 1 September. There will also continue to be intensive contacts in the political field. We will therefore be able to make progress in order to give a boost to limited cross-border traffic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u3	Mr Minister, working together is the key word here, as you said in your reply. I also heard that the railway companies NS and SNCB are working together and that we are looking at where there is still room for improvement. That is a good thing. Certain points still need to be evaluated and steps taken forward. I also heard you talk about cooperation at the political level. You had a positive meeting on 21 April and there was also a meeting to update the cooperation agreement. For many commuters in the border area it is very important that they can travel more easily by train. Now, sometimes those people really depend on their car, whether they want it or not. Crossing the border by public transport is still very difficult. I am therefore pleased to hear that you are trying to change that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u4	Minister, Haacht is currently not directly connected to Brussels, which was the case a few years ago. Travellers now change in Mechelen or in Leuven. Due to delays in a switch, the connection is often missed, which makes the journey time considerably longer, while Haacht is actually close to Brussels. That's very annoying and stressful. During the preparation of the transport plan 2020-2023, our municipality also called for a new direct connection to Brussels. This would be considered during the exercise for the new plan 2023-2026. In this legislature, unlike the previous legislature, significant investments are being made in SNCB and Infrabel. The Government Agreement provides for, inter alia, an increase in passenger transport capacity with the GEN and the AnGeLiC, an improvement in connections between Brussels stations, in particular the North-South connection, and cross-border connections. In this context, it would be logical to direct the Haacht-Brussels line, which is used very frequently, at least a few times a day, during peak hours. Is there anything more known about the next transport plan 2023-2026? I suppose so. Is there a direct train link between Haacht and Brussels? Will participation routes such as road shows also take place under the new transport plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u5	Mrs Jiroflée, the SNCB and myself are well aware of the demand for a direct train between Haacht and Brussels. Both Mr Vanbesien and Mr Roggeman have already questioned my predecessor about this. I therefore refer in the first instance to the answers to their questions for the background to the file as well as for the reason why SNCB decided to stop the direct link in 2014. SNCB informs me that these arguments are still valid. SNCB also notes that a direct P-train would save little or no time compared to the current journey time with a change in Mechelen or Leuven. I can also confirm that SNCB will launch preparatory consultations for the next transport plan throughout the country in the next spring.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u6	Minister, I am very pleased with that last point. I think that was an added value last time. I am less pleased with your first point. If the arguments are still valid, then your predecessor has made us happy with nothing. You have clearly indicated that it was being investigated in a serious manner. That is why I would once again urge the deployment of a direct P-train. There is indeed time savings, however small. In addition, the stress falls away from the often narrow connection. The trains on that line are also used by many students. So it's not just about commuters, it's about students who can use their time. I can only say that I am very disappointed in your reply, Minister. We'll keep following up the file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u7	Debates of the European Parliament 55019198C by Mrs Verhaert is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u8	Mr Van den Bergh, I have received the request of my excellent Flemish colleague, Mrs Peeters. I had the pleasure of discussing this with my regional fellow mobility ministers at the last inter-ministerial conference and we quickly reached agreement on this issue. Therefore, I instructed the FPS Mobility to prepare a draft Royal Decree providing for the extension until 31 December 2021 of all provisional driving licences whose validity expires after 15 March 2020 and before 1 October 2021 and the extension until 31 March 2022 of all provisional driving licences whose validity expires after 30 September 2021 and before 1 January 2022. Indeed, the different lockdown periods have ensured that the number of candidates whose provisional driving licence will expire before 30 September 2021 exceeds the number of places available to the regional examination centres during that period. Therefore, the extension of the provisional driving licences by Royal Decree of 30 December 2020 does not guarantee that candidates have a valid provisional driving licence until they can take part in the practical examination. Therefore, a final extension of the relevant provisional driving licences is required until the delays and waiting periods at the examination centres and driving schools have been eliminated. The extension until 31 December 2021 provides a solution for candidates who are currently unable to find an appointment before 30 September 2021. This extension in turn affects the candidate drivers who are required to pass their examinations during this period and therefore a delay is foreseen for those candidates until 31 March 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for the pragmatic and logical solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u10	Mr Arens, I love your province of Luxembourg and I am working very actively to improve its mobility, as in the rest of the country. Whether it is the Campine, Limburg or the province of Namur, I thank you for your question, which shows the importance of Luxembourg-ville, the Grand Duchy for the inhabitants of the province of Luxembourg. Unfortunately, I am not aware of the results of the study that you are referring to, but I have taken steps to obtain them. I'll analyze them carefully. If you want to transmit them to me live, don't hesitate. On the basis of your question, I am pleased that this study is putting forward some avenues and reflections in order to increase the use of public transport to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and in particular to Luxembourg City. As mentioned earlier in a dialogue last week, my will is to further increase cross-border rail supply, particularly to Luxembourg City, which is the main attraction for the inhabitants of the province of Luxembourg. As you know, the modernisation of Axis 3 Brussels-Luxembourg is one of my priorities, shared with my excellent Luxembourg colleague, François Bausch. On the other hand, I am well aware of the various proposals made by the friends of the rail industry, which my firm has already had the opportunity to meet. Let me not go back to the issue of Park&Ride in Viville, which was discussed last week. As announced in this response, my priority is to further improve the frequency of trains between the province of Luxembourg and the Grand Duchy. But I think we have to take the problem in the right direction. First, we need to develop a global vision, strengthen the supply of trains between the province and the Grand Duchy, and then look at possible technical solutions, including parking. I'm working hard on it, as we love it in your province.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u11	Minister, thank you. Of course, I will come back to these various points and to this cross-border inter-university study which develops the means to be used to deal differently with the problems of public transport between the Grand Duchy and Belgium, via the province of Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u12	I am counting on you to re-examine me and to provide me with this study, if you are faster than my services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u13	Mr Toventers, SNCB informs me that in this case it was a mistake on the part of a contractor to finish the roof. The problem has already been partially solved. This should be fully restored against construction leave. SNCB informs me that, of course, there is no additional cost in such a case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u14	It was just painful that, after a long wait, finally a festive opening with the press and the mayor who gives interviews, it starts raining after half an hour and it becomes a flight. I simply hope that these events do not repeat themselves in Hasselt or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u15	Mr Toventos, I attach great importance to the physical and mental well-being of railway workers. They are the beating heart of our railways. It is therefore essential that their working environment is as safe as possible. I have said this several times in this committee, at the end of May, in response to a question from Mrs Buyst, and I will continue to repeat it. I strongly condemn any act of violence, verbally or physically, against the staff of the Belgian railways. Like SNCB, I am well aware of the sense of insecurity experienced by some staff. Within SNCB there is a structure where employees can express themselves on this issue and pass on their complaints. Several consultation platforms within the organisation discuss acts of violence against railway workers. A joint working group specifically for the fight against aggression meets quarterly to monitor the figures, evaluate existing measures and consider new ones. The recognised organisations can also express their concerns and give feedback. SNCB has taken various measures over time, some of which may have been less visible or more difficult to implement at this time of health crisis. With Securail, for example, agents had to carry out new tasks, such as channeling travellers and checking the sanitary rules. If last year's figures are compared with the previous year's figures, the number of physical attacks has decreased significantly, while verbal attacks have increased. SNCB has introduced surveillance, as has an increased number of checks on high-risk times and places. There was also the launch of awareness-raising campaigns. At the same time, internal efforts have always been made to guide the victims. There has been increased attention to the problem of aggression within SNCB, as well as sensitisation of both passengers and staff. This has led to a reporting culture where the reporting threshold is much lower than before, with the positive result that SNCB gets a better picture of reality. This makes it possible to use the resources at the right place and at the right time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u16	I thank you for your comprehensive answer, but you reiterated what you always said, namely that safety is the great concern. I doubt that, in the sense that I have not read anything about it in your policy plan, at least not as far as personal security is concerned. I regret that. I have already mentioned this several times and several times it would still be wrong. There was a severe condemnation. There is talk of an insecurity feeling but it is not a feeling, it is just unsafe. Despite hotlines and discussions, I see very little change in practice. The staff of SNCB have also crawled into the pen and Mrs Dutordoir has written asking for concrete actions which they consider to be lacking. They did this following incidents on the Kortrijk-Moeskron line, which you are certainly familiar with. Some 25 young people from the north of France have put the train on stilts and attacked staff and train escorts. On that line train guides sometimes don't want to leave or even walk through the train anymore, let alone check tickets. The traffic was shut down, they were on the tracks and a freight train had to stop. They were also armed with baseball bats and knives. If we get to a stage where we start waving knives, we will get very close to the victim phase. I would like to make a very clear appeal not to leave it to words and to make the same discourse every time, but to really start working with your colleagues in the Interior and Justice Department, to take concrete measures before it is too late and before there are any real casualties. After all, your responsibility would be very great if that were to happen. I hope, of course, that this will not be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u17	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Depraetere's 55019246C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u18	Mr Roggeman, SNCB currently has 94 dual motor vehicles MW41. This equipment was built by Alstom between 2000 and 2002. We are therefore faced with this legacy of the past for the current organisation of rail supply. They are the only diesel engines still in service with SNCB. They are currently used in the surroundings of Charleroi, Hasselt, Mol and Ghent. At the moment there is a general midlife overhaul in the central workshop of Salzinnes near Namur. The average budget for the overall overhaul per motor vehicle is 1.4 million euros. In the last 5.5 years 42 motor vehicles have undergone a general overhaul. The size of the required fleet of motor vehicles MW41 was adapted in the 1990s to the then estimated needs for the years 2000 and later. In the meantime we are 30 years later and it has just been electrified, which is good. The fleet of diesel engines is therefore too large at present to cover only the needs of the non-electricised lines. SNCB estimates that it currently needs 57 of these motor vehicles to operate the remaining non-electricised lines. The maintenance costs of these motor vehicles are 3.6 euros per kilometre. From an economic point of view, it makes no sense to take this equipment off the grid as long as there is not enough electrical equipment available to replace it. On the following non-electricised railway lines these diesel trains are still used: Eeklo-Gent, Gent-Ronse, Gent-Geraardsbergen, Aalst-Burst, Mol-Hasselt and Charleroi-Couvin. With regard to your question on the availability of equipment, I would refer you to the answer to your written question No. 567. SNCB is not currently planning any specific investment in this traction. I also refer to the study carried out by the FPS Mobility on alternatives to passenger transport on the non-electricised lines in our country. Both SNCB and Infrabel consider the different options to reduce the remaining share of diesel traction as quickly as possible. Alternative options, such as battery trains or hydrogen trains, are also followed. We are also working on better coordination between SNCB and Infrabel, so that in future the purchase of rolling stock corresponds to the development of rail infrastructure. My cabinet, too, is closely following that evolution. I am ensuring that, in future, the purchase of new equipment will not only improve the accessibility and comfort of the traveller, but also improve the climate. A further sustainability of rail transport is one of my priorities. You won't be surprised, Mr Roggeman.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u19	Madam President, Minister, when we talk about rail electrification in this committee, we talk very often about rail lines and infrastructure, but rolling stock also appears to play an important role in this whole story. After all, many diesel trains are still being used today on lines that have already been electrified. I agree that it would be economically absurd to get rid of 2002 trains already. Nevertheless, it is an important comment on the plans for electrification. In response to this problem, it will be important to effectively replace train sets in the upcoming orders of new rolling stock. We like to beat ourselves on the chest when it comes to electrification of railway lines and reducing emissions. However, as long as these diesel engines are present on the network, we are allowed to electrify the railway lines as much as possible, but the emissions on the ground are still the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u20	Mr Toventers, SNCB informs me that it uses a similar formula for commuting. In doing so, it offers a free monthly subscription, in particular to employers for their employees who are not yet on the train to work. There is currently no such formula for commuting. SNCB tells me to look at other promotional formulas. In the coming summer, SNCB will launch promotional campaigns to promote the use of trains during leisure time. As from the end of August, SNCB will also promote living-work and living-school subscriptions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would like to hear that several options are being studied, because any option that results in more people on the train is, of course, a good option and we will certainly support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u22	Mr Raskin, violations of the maximum laden mass cannot indeed be detected by ANPR cameras. This can only be done by weighing. It is of course important that a rule can be checked, but it is even more important that it is properly understood in order to be applied. In this respect, it is inconceivable to me that the rule in the Royal Decree of 18 December 2002 mentioned by you could be changed, without this being included in the traffic rules. In this context, I would like to point out that, as far as the C23 road sign is concerned, the 1968 international convention stipulates that the underboard covers the maximum permissible mass, and not the laden mass. Since there are many foreign trucks our because of use, an adjustment of the rule could contribute to a better understanding of this road sign. An adaptation of the Road Code rule could therefore be studied, but I prefer to consult first so that I can assess all the consequences. As far as the C21 road sign is concerned, I have the impression that the current definition, which refers to the laden mass as laid down in the 1968 Convention, is better preserved. However, as I have just said, I would prefer that this matter be discussed with my regional colleagues before a decision is taken. As far as your third question is concerned, I can perfectly enter into this discussion with my regional colleagues without having to conclude a cooperation agreement. I see them very regularly and we have a very positive relationship and the will to work together. This topic was recently discussed with my cabinet and the minister of road safety of the Walloon Region. We will continue the discussions in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u23	Mr Minister, this Royal Decree does indeed ensure that the tonnage ban cannot be maintained. After all, it is not in the specific list of infringements. That doesn't alter the fact that it's a pretty big problem. I understand from your reply that you are aware of this. This is a problem for road safety and the viability of many cities and municipalities. They barely manage to ward off large trucks from their neighborhoods. This is also not good for the infrastructure that is being broken by overweight vehicles. You will consult with the Regions. I think this is necessary, because the terminology, the maximum allowed mass versus the mass in laden condition, makes it all complex and technical. The question I wanted to ask you has already been largely answered. You are in consultation with the Regions. Keep doing this, because the government will have to ensure that the tonnage ban with all the negative consequences it will have for people, for cities and municipalities, for neighbourhoods can really be maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u24	Mr Gilkinet, it came back to me that you had recently decided to replace the representative of our country on the board of directors and to the general assembly of the Société nationale des Chemins de fer luxembourgeois (CFL). However, this representative (Benoit Piedboeuf), very much appreciated for the quality of his mission both by the Luxembourg and French representatives in the CFLs, had been renewed in his office, just a year ago, in June 2020. It was through a phone call from the CFL president, Mr. Jeannot Waringo, that he learned your decision. You served this decision on the CFL representative at the beginning of June without even warning the party concerned, our representative. Since then and several weeks later, following his repeated requests, including the last one sent by registered mail, you have finally sent him an e-mail indicating your decision, but without justifying it, which the person concerned legitimately requested. But it's also the b.a.-ba when you hand over someone's function. This way of acting shows in your head a real lack of politeness and elegance, but much more serious, in the absence of motivation, which is essential, your way of acting demonstrates a real lack of transparency. To adopt your decision, you have authority to send our Belgian ambassador to the Grand Duchy on the spot to sit at the AG of June 14 on a mission ordered to the least embarrassing. He was the only one who voted for this premature replacement; all the other members (Luxembourg and French) abstained. To be very precise, the Luxembourg members represent 26,320 shares of the CFL, the Belgian member 1,120 shares and the French member 560. This means that your coup de force to appoint one of your relatives has been approved by a member representing 1,120 shares out of a total of 28,000. The other members representing 26,880 CFL shares abstained. The message seems to be very clear. My questions are simple and precise and await just as precise answers. What are the objective and well-founded reasons for your choice? How do you explain that our representative learned this decision directly from the CFL president in early June and that it took a registered letter from him to notify him of your decision 15 days after his actual replacement at the June 14 AG? Has our Ambassador been discussed with the Prime Minister or the Minister of Foreign Affairs in advance with this latter AG? Under what provision have you decided to grant him this mandate? Is this decision on your part a political settlement to a party member who, in addition, is a member of a party of the Vivaldi majority in the federal government? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u25	Madam Chair, Mr De Maegd, thank you for your questions, although some of the elements of your presentation are incorrect. Whatever! Thank you very much for your interest in rail and for the proper management of it. I confirm that, on 14 June 2021, the General Assembly of the Société nationale des Chemins de fer luxemburg decided, on my proposal, to appoint Ms Juliette Walckiers as Belgian administrator. She will now represent our country on its Board of Directors and General Assembly. She has already taken part in a first board of directors. The statutes of the Société nationale des Chemins de fer luxemburger approved by the Act of 28 March 1997 provide in particular for the presence of a director representing the Belgian State on the board of directors of this railway transport company, of which we have some shares. Article 8 of the Act stipulates that directors shall be elected by the General Assembly for a period of not more than six years and that their term of office shall, in principle, end at the close of the ordinary general meeting of the year in which it ends. However, the same article provides that a director may be "revoked" - that is the term used - at any time by decision of the general meeting and that provision has been applied in this case. I would like to make it clear that I have informed Mr Piedboeuf personally and well in advance of my intention to make this proposal to the Luxembourg National Railway Company to replace him. This happened on the margins of a plenary session on 20 May 2021. I also told Mr. Piedboeuf at that time that, since I took office, I had not received any information from him about the subjects on the agenda of the board of directors of that company or even the views he had defended there. Mrs Walckiers, who has been appointed to replace him, also lives in the province of Luxembourg. She's the coordinator of my office's Rail Cell. She has a real knowledge of railway issues. If that were not the case, she would not perform that function. Through its presence on the CFL Board of Directors, it will be able to strengthen and facilitate the links between our two transport companies, as well as to ensure an improvement in the railway relations between our two countries, as many of our citizens expect. I am also receiving a lot of legitimate questions from our Luxembourg colleagues on this issue. The new administrator has the expertise and experience to fulfill these missions, as well as to advise CFLs in their development as I wish the best possible. Agents appointed to other functions by my predecessor, such as, for example, the Chair of the RER Steering Committee, spontaneously gave me their term of office at the beginning of my appointment on 1 October. This is not the case with Mr Piedboeuf, whom I have, however, informed spontaneously beforehand. At his request, following the simple letter he had sent me, I sent him the letter I had sent to my Luxembourg colleagues in full transparency. This is not, however, Mr De Maegd, in any way a retaliatory measure against Mr Piedboeuf, especially since he is an agent that I personally appreciate. It is simply a measure aimed at the most effective exercise of my mobility skills. I hope that it will give him all the time to carry out his duties as mayor, deputy and group leader, beyond the other mandates that he continues to exercise - I am sure so - as best he can.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u26	Mr Gilkinet, no answers to the four questions I asked you. I regret to tell you again: in terms of good governance and transparency, you are in default. This was already the case when the Financial Director of SNCB was appointed. We all remember your lies here in Parliament. This is again the case. I am not going to epilogue the obvious lack of politeness and courtesy that you have shown, including to the members of your own majority. Clearly, in your circle, being appointed minister is neither a pledge of loyalty nor of good education. Of which act! You make sure that this is not a political settlement of accounts under any circumstances. How then do you explain this message sent by your group leader Ecolo to the House to his counterpart Benoît Piedboeuf? I quote: "This is not my decision. I was just telling you that I sincerely pleaded the cause of the smooth transition, but after Denis' outrages, it seems obvious to me that respect and elegance must go in both directions." Mr Gilkinet, no one is fooled by your lowly political maneuvers. On the legality of your decision, even if the law, you are right, was strictlyo sensu respected, your attitude raises a corner of the veil on your relationship to good governance. Choose unilaterally to replace a representative who has just been reappointed for five years in order to place a member of your party, where is the good governance that you were advocating so much? On this issue, you are simply not more credible, but it is true that your party is excelling at the moment in terms of appointment. A few words on the profile saying that the replacement is competent. That's very good. I didn't even ask that question. Nothing about your motivations for Benoît Piedboeuf. Nothing about the fact that you mandated the Belgian ambassador for this embarrassing mission. Nor is there anything about the settlement of accounts that I have just spoken about. Finally, Mr Gilkinet, it is the words of the president of the CFLs sent to Benoît Piedboeuf that should prompt you to a profound questioning. Jeannot Waringo wrote: "We were all surprised to read your minister's decision. In recent years, we have learned to appreciate your commitment to relations between our two countries, and in particular to the development of rail transport. You have always been able to plead, with conviction and mutual respect, the cause of our two societies, Belgian and Luxembourgish. I always say very honestly what I think. So I'm saying I don't understand why you had to be replaced. I hope that these reasons are objective, well-founded and understandable, both for our Board of Directors and for our Directorate-General." Mr Gilkinet, as Deputy Prime Minister, you are supposed to work for the general interest and not for dark, lowly political interests. In the case of the controversial appointment of the SNCB CFO, I invited you to fully endorse the Minister's costume. Several months later, it obviously still seems too broad. You confuse being and having. Being vice first is not having vice first.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u27	Madam President, there is no deafer than the one who does not want to hear. Your outrages, Mr. De Maegd, don't grow up. I think I have explained by mail and here, in the committee, the reasons why Mr Piedboeuf has been replaced since 1 October as Belgium's representative to the CFLs. He did not inform me of the discussions that were under way or of the positions he had held. It has been replaced by a person who is not a member of my party, but who is a member of my cabinet and who, technically, knows the track perfectly, which will logically facilitate contacts and relations between our two societies and our two countries. That's my only goal. In this case, you can see what you want in terms of political revenge. You may have the elegance to quote personal messages, but I did what I thought was the fastest in terms of good business management. As I said, I wish Mr. Piedboeuf good work in pursuing his various mandates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u28	Mr Gilkinet, only the facts tell the truth! And the facts, I have just stated, are to read them by name both on the settlement of political accounts, on Mr Vanden Burre's message to Mr Piedboeuf and on the reaction of Luxembourgers, who, as I recall, as the French, abstained on this decision. The facts are, unfortunately for you, extremely clear and it is an euphemism to say that your arrogance and condescendence, your decisions in the mode "made of the prince", purely revengeful and partisan are in fact difficult to live by both your majority partners and, in this case, by the Luxembourg and French representatives of the CFLs. I don't think that's the way to run, to put oil in the workings of a relationship with our cross-border neighbours. I invite you to meditate, Mr Gilkinet, on the proverb "Who sows the wind reaps the storm" because you need it a lot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u29	Madam President, Mr Toventors, I am very concerned about the accessibility of rail transport. I am therefore pleased with your question, which gives me the opportunity to point out the actions of SNCB in this respect. As you yourself have said, the Coast Express trains were a test at the beginning of June to allow SNCB to evaluate whether that new SNCB product would respond to the needs of the passengers, as well as to test the digital reservation system and the reception of passengers at the stations concerned. The response of the National High Council for Persons with a Disability was justified. In the run-up to the pilot project, communication on the possibilities for this specific group of passengers may not have been given sufficient attention. At the same time, this reaction was extremely useful because it brought to the attention of those travellers' needs once again. This has been taken into account in the evaluation of the pilot weekend. Therefore, adjustments were made for the trains offered this summer, as was also corrected following comments on the transport of bicycles. This is, of course, the aim of a test weekend: to collect feedback so that the Coast Express can be organized as well as possible during the summer. SNCB informs me that all existing procedures for assistance applications remain in force for the Coast Express trains. These trains can therefore be used in the same way for persons with assistance needs as the trains in the classic offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u30	Madam President, Minister, I am pleased that the changes have been made and that the problems raised have been resolved. However, it is painful that we have to come back to the story of justified comments, namely that there was insufficient attention at the test stage. However, this has the advantage that the problem has once again been brought to the attention of the public. The problem has existed for decades. The National High Council for Persons with Disability has come to testify on the committee. The problem has been pointed out so many times. It should be self-evident that any policy measure should automatically take into account the limited accessibility for certain people, so that such matters no longer arise. It is therefore quite painful, despite the fact that the measure has since been amended.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u31	Madam President, Minister, as we know, SNCB and Infrabel are aware of the essential role of the train for the urban mobility of tomorrow, an ambition reflected in the AnGeLiC report. Taking up the strategic challenge of placing the train as an actor of an integrated mobility within the Liège metropolis, a few entities of the borough made concrete, in 2018, the reactivation of the L125A line and the reopening of certain stop points (Chaudfontaine, Seraing, Ougrée). In order to continue the implementation of the Urban Mobility Plan of the Agglomeration of Liège (adopted in 2019), the municipalities of Flemalle, of which I am a member of Mobility, and Seraing consider that it would be interesting to create additional stops on this line of the express network of Liège. More specifically, the stops of Flémalle-Neuve (at Flémalle) and Val Saint Lambert (at Seraing) would be in the perfect line of the AnGeLiC plan and the Urban Mobility Plan of the Agglomeration of Liège. These two breakpoints find their relevance in the light of existing and future neighbourhoods, but also in the case of projects (additional inhabitants, new job-creating enterprises, increase in the number of users) which are Flémalle-Neuve and Cristal Park. Minister, in order to continue this necessary implementation, do you intend to call for the launch of studies for the construction of these stops, as advocated by the Urban Mobility Plan of the Liège Agglomeration and the AnGeLiC plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u32	Mrs Thémont, the development of an attractive urban rail offer is a credible alternative to the car and thus helps to reduce congestion in our city centres. This also has a positive impact on the quality of air in the city and therefore on the health of the inhabitants, beyond helping the economy to leave the road open for economic actors. The AnGeLiC Liège study and the urban mobility plan of Liège validated by the Walloon government plan to review mobility at the level of the municipality of Flemalle and the city of Seraing. With regard to Flémalle, the study planned to close Leman station and to create a station in the new Flémalle-Neuve district on line 125A Flémalle-Haute - Seraing - Liège-Guillemins. The closure of the Leman station, which no longer meets the needs of the Flémallois, would also improve the robustness and punctuality of the offer on the 125 Namur-Huy-Liège Guillemins line. As far as Seraing is concerned, the masterplan provides for significant mobility around the Val Saint Lambert by 2030. The study planned on the one hand to study a new stop point near the church of Val Saint Lambert and on the other hand to study the closure of the station of Jemeppe-sur-Meuse following a possible extension of the tram from Liège to the multimodal hub of Pont-de-Seraing. The study highlighted the small distance between the station of Jemeppe-sur-Meuse and that of Pont-de-Seraing. A railway station linking the two neighbourhoods through a bridge and allowing for smooth mobility between them should be promoted. However, the management bodies of SNCB have still not validated the implementation of the second block of the AnGeLiC Liège project. This block includes studies of the two stations mentioned, as well as studies of the Vennes, Vivegnis and Cheratte. It is only on the condition of validation of this second block that the potential and feasibility studies for these different stations can be initiated. Discussions will continue in the context of the development of future transport plans with the regional roadshows that are now systematically organized by SNCB, as well as in the determination of the objectives of SNCB's future public service contract and the means to be granted to it. The file is therefore to be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answers. The train develops our mobility while caring for the environment. Rail infrastructure occupies less ground space than road infrastructure. Studies have been conducted in Seraing and Flemalle to inform consideration of the attendance and technical feasibility of these two breakpoints on line 125A. If you're interested, we can send them to you so you can support our project. When you talk about the second block, is there a calendar?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u34	There is no precise timetable. I propose that you take advantage of the roadshows organized by SNCB before the announcement of the evolution of the transport plans to question the regional officials of SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u36	Mr Minister, until now, the drivers of the Gouvy depot are the only SNCB drivers trained to ride on Grand-Ducal Line No. 1 connecting Gouvy to Luxembourg City. For the second time in three years, SNCB management has intended to train certain drivers at the Liège depot so that they can ride on the CFL network. This second announcement was feared by Gouvy's drivers. Indeed, the fact that a depot trains its drivers on a line where drivers already ride a smaller depot is not a sign of good news. This can be illustrated by the fact that, together with the non-renewal of the pension workers, it was possible to justify the decision of the CLC of Arlon to close the depot of the drivers of Virton-Saint-Mard. In addition, the CFL may decide to take over, in part or in whole, this burden to the detriment of SNCB drivers. These two elements, one Belgian and the other Luxembourgish, may endanger the influence of the workload or even the viability of the "guvion" deposit. As a result of the harassment of local union delegates, management returned as a result of an agreement reached as a matter of urgency. In exchange for an adjustment of the number of benefits for the deposit of Gouvy, the formation of the Liegeois for the CFL network is abandoned. For the record, I just want to point out that this kind of agreement was also found for Virton drivers a few years ago. The next one, you know her. I hope you understand my concerns, Mr. Minister, in view of the latest policies of centralizing the workforce towards large cities and of the desertification of public service personnel in rural areas. Therefore, Minister, can you make sure that the SNCB does not intend to close the FVY depot, i.e. the deposit of train drivers at the Gouvy station under this legislature? Otherwise, for how many years is the viability of Gouvy's deposit guaranteed, without any loss of workload?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Hanus, you have taught me a new adjective: gouvion, meaning "de Gouvy". I didn't know. I have recently been asked about this by your Luxembourg colleagues, Mr Arens, present in committee, and Mrs Thibaut, whom I welcome, since she will leave Parliament to leave the place for her substitute. That is what I replied in writing to them: "NSCB regularly examines the extent to which it can improve its benefit planning. There is no overall plan to reduce the latter beyond what is commonly accepted in the sector, taking into account the specificities of the Belgian network and the structure of the current transport plan. Drivers' representatives are systematically involved in the adjustment of benefits. Changes in the content of certain passenger services are planned each year in December; these changes are essential in order to be able to incorporate the necessary adjustments resulting from developments in the transport plan for SNCB customers as well as the specific demands of depots and drivers, in the light of their experience of the exercise of the services of the previous period." SNCB informs me that it does not intend to reduce the number of benefits under the current offer. The burden of Gouvy's depot remains essentially determined by the offer on the line, which has been reinforced as you know, and the first train departures in Gouvy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that the SNCB does not intend to reduce the supply of benefits. That's already a point. But what was expected of you is confirmation that there is also no intention of closing the deposit. Drivers and commuters need to be reassured as a result of attempts to make decisions about them. I will continue to keep an eye on this case to defend Gouvy's drivers and commuters in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u39	Debates of the European Parliament 55019544C by Mrs Zanchetta has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u40	Madam President, Mr Toventors, SNCB informs me that there has never been a problem with the safety of passengers or SNCB staff. Analyses on possible solutions are under way. Following the adoption of the results, the solutions chosen will be implemented. New tests will be carried out afterwards. SNCB shall take the utmost account of the views of its train escorts and its train drivers. It shall inform them as closely as possible about all aspects of the various possibilities. For example, the driving staff participates in risk analyses. The advantages of the new system are the guarantee of a uniform procedure, irrespective of the station or type of rolling stock, the reduction of the risks of signal collisions and the reduction of the risks to passengers and train staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u41	We disagree on SNCB's claim that there would have been no risk. I think that the staff involved is pertinent and claims something completely different about it. The further answers I have received, about benefits and so on, I think are valid. We'll follow up on the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u42	Mr Parent, thank you for your question about your interest in cycling, whether it is shared or not. In this case with the Blue Bike here, it is shared, and I fully share this ambition. The opening of new Blue-bike stations is planned this year at Drongen, Edegem, Merelbeke, Wondergem and Wesemael stations. The extension of the offer is also planned at the stations of Malines, Namur, Mons and Torhout. Blue-bike and SNCB have a collaboration agreement for the installation of Blue-bike stations in bicycle parking at stations. These facilities also depend on the support of local authorities, most of whom are involved in the rental price. The customer potential is also a decision factor for the opening of Blue-bike stations. The agreement between SNCB and Blue-bike authorizes the installation of these stations at all stations across the country. Blue-bike is the majority shareholder of De Lijn and enjoys the support of the Flemish Region. The TEC is a minority shareholder in Blue-mobility (Blue-bike structure). Contacts take place with both SNCB and TEC in order to extend the offer in Wallonia. A development plan is under consideration. SNCB has repeatedly insisted that this extension in the south of the country should take place as soon as possible. I support her and call her my vows. I had the opportunity to discuss this with the Blue Bike officials I met at the opening of a station in Landen. That was nice!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u43	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for his response. I am pleased to learn that there is a development plan for Blue-bike in the south of the country. It is well known that the differential between North and South is extremely important on this issue and that intermodality and the ability to rent a bike at a train station is really a missing piece in bike policy and train-bike articulation in the south of the country. I welcome this announcement and the fact that Blue-bike will strengthen its offer to Namur and Mons. This is also good news for the other stations of course. This is an important issue for us. I will continue to follow him to see the deployment of this strategy, which can be built with local authorities and cycling associations. They can provide support to identify the needs and capabilities of potential Blue-bike customers in the territories.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u44	Mr Minister, SNCB proposed its cycling plan, which contains very nice commitments for the coming years. Hopefully these ambitions can be strengthened in the forthcoming service contract. In Mechelen the first renewed platform opened not so long ago. That is really a gem, but cyclists are currently colliding on an elevator that is not yet operational. At the moment there are no bike gutters on the stairs, which means that cyclists have to carry their bike upstairs. The current choice for one accessible access for cyclists and persons with reduced mobility to a platform via a lift makes these passengers very dependent on the operation of that lift. When the lift is out of service, access to the platform also falls away for many passengers. Our hearing here in Parliament a few months ago also showed that slopes are actually a more sustainable and, above all, more reliable choice to ensure accessibility. How often have the last year been lifts that provide access to off-duty platforms? When will the elevators in Mechelen's station be operational? Will bike gutters be placed temporarily or permanently? Was the option for a slope studied up to the new platform for this project? Is this option also being considered in other platform renewal projects? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u45	Mrs Buyst, accessibility is very close to my heart. I am therefore pleased that SNCB informs me that on Wednesday 14 July the statutory inspection of the lifts to the new platforms 11 and 12 in Mechelen is planned. With these lifts one will be able to take the bike to the platform. So it's another day or two waiting. The SNCB unfortunately informs me that bicycle gutters or a ramp to the platforms were technically not feasible at the Mechelen station. The level difference between the station hall and the platforms is particularly large in Mechelen, almost six meters. A slope which complies with the integrated accessibility guidelines should be about 170 metres long. In addition, the width of the platforms in Mechelen is limited. As a result, the long channels of the slopes in the platform would take up too much surface. As I said, the elevators will be fine very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u46	Minister, the train must be accessible to everyone. I hear there's a recovery coming for the elevators, with their statutory inspection, which is planned tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. I understand that a slope of 170 metres is indeed not a solution. I'm a little surprised bike gutters aren't a solution. In Ravels, where I live, there is a cyclist bridge over the canal Dessel-Schoten with quite a slope and there are bicycle gutters. Maybe it's a good idea to look at that in future new construction projects. If the lift is defective, the platforms are not accessible to bicycles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u47	Madam President, first of all, I would like to endorse your plea for bicycle gutters on the stairs in stations. I'm taking a little advantage of the fact that I'm asking my question after yours. After all, I have to say that there are many stairs in older stations, but not at the new stairs. I find that regrettable. Minister, at the end of 2017 the initiative was taken to work with an integrated subscription in the urban environment of Antwerp, Brussels, Ghent and two Walloon cities. For Antwerp and Ghent it is about the City Pass, in collaboration with De Lijn. In Brussels, SNCB collaborates with De Lijn, the TEC and STIB and in Wallonia, of course, cooperates with the TEC. I think it's time for a state of affairs. To what extent does this first offer of an integrated subscription to train, tram and bus take effect? Are any adjustments needed? Do you recognise the importance of tariff and ticket integration for user-friendly public transport? Do you agree that public enterprises should play an example or tractor role in this? How many travellers have been using the City Pass in Ghent and Antwerp since October 2017? In how many cases are a monthly subscription and in how many cases are an annual subscription? Do you see opportunities to offer the City Pass for Antwerp and Ghent as a day pass or a typical city trip ticket as a 3- or 4-day pass, which we also see in many foreign cities? What is the position of SNCB on the other hand? How many travelers have used the Brupass or the Brupass XL since 2017? In how many cases are a day pass, in how many cases are a month's subscription and in how many cases are a year's subscription?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u48	Madam President, I refer to the written text. My questions are essentially identical to those of Mr. Van den Bergh. I think that with our questions we cover the whole country and the areas affected by the City Pass. The answers will be exhaustive, I have no doubt! Minister, since 1 July 2018, SNCB and TEC have been offering an integrated subscription for the use of SNCB trains and TEC buses in the Liège agglomeration. It is the City-Pass, which is also present in other cities in the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u49	I will reply in the two languages and exhaustively, Mr Parent and Mr Van Den Bergh. I agree with you that a public undertaking plays an important role in modal shift, where intermodality should be as efficient and attractive as possible for passengers. I want to promote as positive a door-to-door experience as possible for passengers by facilitating travel information and planning, purchase and accessibility. Ticket integration is one of many ways to ensure user-friendliness for the traveller. The best example of this tariff integration is without doubt the Brupass and Brupass XL. The overall sales figures of the Brupass were fairly stable between 2017 and 2019, but the covid crisis has reduced the numbers. The most successful sales formula of SNCB is the ten-way ticket and, to a lesser extent, the one-month subscription. Overall over all operators together, the total picture, the subscription for twelve months is more successful, although since the corona crisis the preference has been for a one-month subscription. For the Brupass XL it is too early to draw conclusions. The product was launched in February and is not yet known enough, again by the covidcontext. The use of the City Pass remains relatively limited, both in Ghent and Antwerp, knowing that the subscriptions have so far only been sold by SNCB. Of the total City Pass subscriptions sold by SNCB in Wallonia, Liège has accounted for an average of 77% of sales since 2018. The one-month formula was the most successful, especially the Liège subscription one month, if you take all the sales of TEC and SNCB combined. In addition, the share of the 24-hour formula is very low. The covid context certainly had an adverse impact on sales. The possibility to offer the City Pass as a day pass or multi-riding card has not been addressed so far. A decision must be made on the basis of an analysis of the potential. In Brussels, SNCB, together with the other operators, decided to stop the 48-hour and 72-hour formula. These formulas were not successful among travelers and tourists. Mr Parent, there have been contacts between SNCB and TEC. In 2020, for example, the 12-24 year olds' rate was revised. This led to the creation of a new, more advantageous 18-24 year tariff. This 18-24 year-old tariff will be reduced from 1 September 2021. For 2022, there is not yet any concrete discussion on adjustments to subscription rates. SNCB also informs me that the current City Pass area has been determined on the basis of car flows, taking into account the most important living areas of the Liège and Charleroi agglomerations, and the congestion of the employment and school centres. No studies on user travel patterns are envisaged by SNCB at this stage, with a view to revision or enlargement. SNCB informed me that the post-launch communication campaign had borne fruit. The City Passes are visible on the website of each of the operators. However, they are not always known to the general public. However, this is essential in order to give a greater role to intermodality and thus promote modal reporting. I hope, moreover, that many citizens will follow our committee live or that articles will appear tomorrow in both the French and Flemish press.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u50	Minister, your answer gives little insight into the figures and the numbers. I had already asked for concrete figures in writing. I then got the answer that this is for SNCB's commercial data. I regret that. A colleague also asked this question in the Flemish Parliament with regard to De Lijn. There have been specific figures. So we know the answer pretty well. In Ghent there were 15 year passes in 2018, 31 in 2019 and 83 in 2020. For monthly passes, 92, 94 and 51. In Antwerp, the numbers are higher. The number of monthly passes is 454, 489 and 267 and the number of annual passes is 94, 141 and 87 respectively. I regret that SNCB, every time we ask for figures, refers to the argument that it is commercial data in a free market, while we intend to offer SNCB a ten-year service contract. I believe that in this public service contract we should also pay attention to the transparency of the figures and data. I believe that this is an important challenge in drawing up a public service contract. It is also important, despite the limited results, to continue to focus on tariff and ticket integration. We must continue to look for a way of getting multimodality in one hand, so that people can easily switch from one mode to another. This is specifically about the public transport companies, but we can open it up to bikes, sub-steps, taxi companies and so on. I think we have already taken a small step, but we certainly need to extend it in the future. I hope that the limited success of this first attempt will not lead to a retreat within one's own walls.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answers. I was obviously positively surprised when I heard the number of City Passs sold for the Liège agglomeration. It is a demonstration of the relevance of this offer in this agglomeration where mobility, including at rail level, is a recognised element, despite the shortcomings of the City Pass which is less advantageous than the Brupass, even though I welcome the tariff evolution for the younger ones. This is, in any case, an element that will make it possible to communicate positively about the product and to make it known. The success of the City Pass also demonstrates the value of strengthening the rail network in agglomeration in Liège. Here I echo the previous debate on the express network in Liège, one more element to justify the relevance of investments in rail mobility in and around Liège.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u52	I refer to my question. It is inspired by the numerous complaints from citizens that the law on parking tickets for people with disabilities is very unclear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u53	Mrs Lanjri, I am very concerned about accessibility for people with disabilities to the railways, but also on the road. The exception to the limitation of parking time for disabled persons applies only in blue zones. In these areas people with disabilities are therefore allowed to park unlimited parking. It is up to the road managers to determine the modalities for parking persons with disabilities in places where paying parking applies. After all, this is a parking fee and the federal government is not competent to do so. It is also up to the road manager to determine whether or not people with disabilities have to pay, but I fully understand the difficulties faced by different rules in different municipalities. If you have a parking card, you are not obliged to use the reserved parking spaces, as these are reserved parking spaces and not mandatory parking spaces. In places reserved for persons with disabilities situated in a paying zone, the obligation to pay does not apply and therefore neither does the limitation of parking time, except where the underboard indicates that there is also a payment to be made in that place. Parking in a reserved parking space in an area where paying parking applies makes a difference. The influence of the federal level on the establishment of reserved parking spaces for people with disabilities is very limited. This is a matter for the road managers to take the initiative. I am convinced that the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities is always prepared to give an indication of the number of parking tickets in circulation. I myself am very concerned about the problem. Parking for people with disabilities should not be an obstacle to their mobility. I have already discussed a number of problems with my colleague, Mr Lalieux, and I hope that we can make progress along with her and with our regional colleagues responsible for Mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u54	As you can see, it is really not clear to the users, so the people with disabilities. In many municipalities, for example in Antwerp, they are allowed to park free parking anywhere and not only in blue zones, provided that they have a visible parking card for people with disabilities. In other municipalities that is not allowed. Thus it becomes very difficult for people with disabilities and they have to look at the rules in which municipality they are in. In addition, it is mentioned that parking is paying, often indicated at the car park. For a person with a disability the movement to the parking meter is already a threshold. Mrs Lalieux is working on an action plan for people with disabilities and has asked all ministers to provide input and make concrete proposals. Are you prepared to work on at least one clear and clearer information from your responsibility for mobility and in consultation with the regions and local authorities, which are the road managers? Are you also willing to work on free parking for people with disabilities in as many places as possible and not only in blue zones? If we cannot impose it from above, it is a pity, but it must be encouraged from below. Many mayors certainly have an ear for that, if they are asked through the regions. Can you include this in the action plan for people with disabilities, as far as your competences are concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u55	I will certainly do so, within the limits of my federal powers, and I will also work on a solution-oriented basis, as we are used to with our regional colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u56	Minister, the station in Herentals is a hugely important station in my area. All possible gremia in the Kempen have indicated to SNCB that we do not want to know about making that parking fee. On behalf of the transport region, on behalf of the Conference of Kempense mayors, on behalf of the mayors of Neteland, i.e. Herentals and the neighbouring municipalities, and on behalf of the city council, we have announced that we do not want this, and certainly not without consultation and coordination. At that city council even a member of your party, Green, has said that making it paying absolutely does not fit your party's policy vision. In consultation with SNCB, the transport company states that you and the management are required to make the parking pay and that they can only put the plans on hold if you give the signal to do so. I would have liked that signal from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u57	I agree with Mrs Van Camp. The station in Herentals is the most important station in the transport region for the Kempense train traveller. It is the transfer station, with almost 3,000 changing or departing passengers. In addition to the many train connections, the station in Herentals also offers the traveller a spacious parking lot that is still free for the time being. There would indeed be other plans by the end of the year. It is therefore not surprising that the parking capacity of the car park is currently sometimes at its limit, although parking in the streets around the station is also free. That is a very important factor in this story. The station parking will thus be the only car park in the area where a paying regime would apply. In addition to a local effect on parking behaviour, there is also a risk of a shift of passengers to other stations in the Kempen, where there is no system of paying parking. SNCB's policy raises many questions. It is not the first time that questions are asked here about making station parkings. In addition, there is a lack of covered bicycle storage facilities in Herentals. This is contrary to the modal shift we are all trying to achieve at all levels in Belgium. What plans are on the table regarding the parking in Herentals? What investments are planned for the station of Herentals, before paying parking is introduced? Is SNCB waiting for the consequences of the renewal of the bicycle shed? Is SNCB also in consultation with the city, because it is quite clear that there has been little or no consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u58	Minister, as the previous speakers have already said, the entire municipal administration of Herentals has sent a letter to SNCB. I would like to quote Peter Verpoorten van Groen: "When you strive for a desirable behavior, you should encourage it and not complicate it. If you're looking for a modal shift and want more people to pull over and take the train, you shouldn't make it difficult for them to pay." That is what Mr Verpoorten van Groen says. We fully agree with that. I have already intervened with great care about those paying parkings which are a problem in several places. If we want the commuters to leave the car and take the train, it is important that parking is accessible and free. That's our vision. We have also asked a written question on this subject. In Liège, for example, an annual subscription costs no less than 738 euros. For many people that is a huge sum, which also does not encourage to take the train. SNCB benefits from more and more paying station parkings through B-Parkings. Recently, a survey of the FPS Mobility among the population showed that 50% of the drivers who use the car daily see the lack of affordable parking spaces as a threshold to take the train. Has SNCB questioned the population of Herentals about the introduction of paying parking? Has SNCB questioned the local government of Herentals about this? What tariff formula will SNCB apply in Herentals? On what criteria are these tariffs introduced? What turnover does SNCB expect to obtain from the station parking in Herentals? How many train passengers use the station on average and how many of them come by car to the station?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u59	Madam President, Mrs Verhaert, Mrs Van Camp, Mrs Vindevoghel, we have often discussed the parking strategy of SNCB in the Committee on Mobility and I refer to the discussions in previous committee meetings on the general parking policy of SNCB. We discussed the impact of the corona crisis in the committee of 22 June, as well as the prospects for the future. The Minister for Mobility does not decide which parking is or is not paying. This type of choice belongs to the autonomy of SNCB. I would like to repeat here that SNCB tells me that, before making a parking fee, it will first draw up a joint mobility plan in consultation with the local authorities. SNCB also provides for a preferential rate for passengers on its paying parkings, as well as a free kiss-and-ride. In addition, in cooperation with the municipalities, an attempt is made to provide a night subscription for local residents, as well as an evening and weekend rate. We should not continue to encourage the use of the car, but rather the modal shift. SNCB informs me that most of the users of its parking facilities live at a distance of three kilometres or less from the station. That is also the case in Herentals. These are mainly commuters over 17 years of age with a subscription. According to SNCB, the number of departing passengers does not fall when a station parking is paid. After all, it is the train supply that determines the attractiveness of the station, not whether or not the parking is paying. In addition, according to SNCB's experience, some 25% of train passengers make the switch to a bicycle when they make a car parking fee. SNCB informs me that its intentions are clear and that it will continue to discuss them with the city of Herentals. The most recent conversation took place on July 1st. The topics cited were the pedestrian tunnel for the station, the master plan for the station environment, the bicycle storage, the payment of the station parking and the problems of the consideration. SNCB and the city therefore remain in close consultation. Mrs Vindevoghel, the final rates are not yet known. SNCB informs me that the potential profit of the car park makes it possible to finance part of the operating costs of the bicycle sheds and SNCB's contribution to the bicycle points. The number of departing passengers for Herentals can be found on the SNCB website in the annual reporting of passengers by station.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u60	Minister, I have written down a number of criticisms. First of all, Mrs.Vindevoghel, Herentals is a city, the historic capital of the Kempen and not a municipality. The station of Herentals is the most important station in the region. Minister, you say that SNCB can decide this for itself. That surprises me very much. As a minister, you are setting out your own guidelines. SNCB itself says it is waiting for a signal from your cabinet, because the transport company is only carrying out the policy you set out. The meeting on 1 July wasn't exactly a meeting. There's no consultation. We say that we do not want to know about making the parking pay, that we are not finished with our own mobility plan to possibly adapt it to making a parking fee. SNCB simply repeats that the Minister's policy is being implemented. SNCB says she was ordered to make that parking pay as soon as possible. That's what's gonna happen this year. SNCB does not care at all whether the city is ready or not, whether the transport region wants to know about it or not, whether the city council wants to know about it or not. She just does that. I don't call that a meeting. There is simply a monologue to carry out SNCB's plans. Those who were delegates have not only hidden behind the cabinet, but also behind their management, who imposed it. We have asked for a meeting with the management, but we have not yet heard of it. They continued to repeat that they carried out this task on behalf of the Cabinet and that only the Cabinet can instruct it to do so. So there is absolutely no question of a joint mobility plan. You also say that this is accompanied by a low rate. I think Mrs Vindevoghel has made a very clear reference to the rates applied. This is often about hundreds of euros a year that a train traveller has to pay extra. That is absolutely not desirable, certainly not because in Herentals many city parkings in the area are free, as Mrs Verhaert said. Once again, we are not ready to amend it, let alone to do so. You say the offer determines whether a station is attractive. The Kempenaar takes the train purely out of necessity, because the offer is absolutely not attractive. I do not know if you have visited the station of Herentals before, but as a representative of the people I am ashamed of it. During an action we once tried to enter the building with a wheelchair. I can't. There are no elevators, just stairs. People in wheelchairs need to be hoisted over the tracks to the right platform. The train is waiting for someone in a wheelchair to reach the train. Nothing is done about making our station accessible. Herentals-Turnhout-Binche is one of the least punctual connections. It's very well known in your list. We've been asking for 10 years to solve that. The undertunnel of the railroad that has been holding our city hostage for decades is not going to happen. In your opinion, it is only a policy of SNCB that she is going to bully the traveller even more with making the parkings pay. I really have substitute shame.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u61	I've already been to the station of Herentals. Yes, there is still some work to be done. There is work in many stations and there is definitely a need to work in Herentals. That's obvious. We can't do everything at once.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u62	The offer in the station of Herentals is indeed sad. During the presentation of the policy paper, I also discussed it. One has to wear boots, carry a ladder. They still come on unpaved platforms. These are, of course, things that are no longer of our time. In addition, I fear that there is little or no consultation. It's just being implemented. At the very least, I would urge you to sit down with the city again and at least postpone until the mobility plan is completed. Otherwise, the streets around the station will be under heavy pressure. In order to achieve the modal shift that we all love to put forward, we should not do this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u63	Mrs Van Camp, I apologize for calling Herentals a town and not a city. Minister, you are hiding behind SNCB in order not to have to make decisions yourself. You're such a supporter of the modal shift. Everything must be done so that people would take the train. So what's on the table here isn't a good idea. It is not consulted with the inhabitants, nor with the people who use the train. Since the parkings were paid, their revenues have increased by 75% at 5 years. That's 15 million a year. It's gonna be a business model. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Parking must be used to get people to take the train and not to knock people money out of their pockets again. It reminds me of the whole discussion on the points of contact, where local politicians are also opposed to closing the points of contact. The local political parties are now against the decisions, even though some are in the government. We don't think it's a good policy to encourage people to take the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u64	Mr Minister, this question is perfectly in line with my reply to the previous question. The lack of undertunnel of the railways has held mobility in our city and region hostage for decades. So it is not just a question of our city but of the whole region to finally tackle it. [[Now the Roads and Traffic Agency (AWV) together with Infrabel, one of your services, would restart the study to find a viable solution that would have started in 2019.]] We constantly point out from all quarters how urgent this is for us, and it is appalling that we are approaching 2022 now, while that study has still not begun. I feel like a stalker, because every few weeks I ask both the AWV and Infrabel how far it is now. However, they always play each other for the delays. I find this really reprehensible. I wonder whether you are aware of this and whether you are going to do something to avoid any further delay. This study must finally be completed so that the undertunnel of these railways can finally get there and our city will no longer be held hostage by poor mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u65	Mrs Van Camp, Infrabel informs me that she has still not received an award proposal from the AWV. Like the city of Herentals, Infrabel regularly urges the AWV to progress on this study. According to the information provided by Infrabel, the delay is therefore entirely due to the AWV. As you know, I am not responsible for the Flemish Agency for Roads and Traffic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u66	As has already been said, the two bodies always point the finger at each other. The AWV says the delay lies with Infrabel, which I have on paper, while Infrabel states that the delay is due to the AWV. Meanwhile, we have been waiting two and a half years for the start of a study on an undertunnel that we have been waiting for for decades. I hope that this is alarming enough for you to ensure that the delay is not effective in your services. We must finally make progress on this dossier. I will not fail to raise this with the AWV too, because everyone has to take responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u67	Minister, the safety of our railways is a priority for all of us. In order to reduce the number of railway accidents, Infrabel replaces as much consideration as possible with safe alternatives such as a tunnel or a bridge. Because of the cost of the budget, the removal of rail roads is becoming more and more frequent, leading to a long-running journey. This has a huge impact not only on vehicles, but also on slow road users. While the detour for a vehicle is still somewhat poor, the extra time for cyclists and pedestrians is often high. The VVSG spoke in the hearing in our committee about the reverse STOP principle in abolishing a road crossing. The additional driving time associated with the closure of a road traffic for weak road users is not proportionate to better safety, especially for those slow road users. Figures show that most incidents occur with vehicles rather than slow road users. Slow road users are therefore the victims of closing a road. Instead of the abolition of a complete crossing or the integration of an uneven crossing with the crossing, more and more places are being looked at how to keep the crossing only for cyclists and pedestrians, but to abolish it for vehicles. Can you confirm that the number of incidents in consideration is mainly caused by vehicles and not by weak road users and that the abolition of consideration does not increase safety for cyclists and pedestrians? In how many cases did Infrabel already close a road for vehicles but not for slow road users? Will you, as Minister Infrabel, encourage the third choice, in addition to the abolition and replacement of a road crossing by a bridge or a tunnel, to be examined explicitly on every road crossing? Will you include that in the management agreement? How does Infrabel feel about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u68	Mrs Verhaert, Infrabel informs me that from 2014 to 2020 three-quarters of the accidents on thinking outside port areas involved motorised vehicles or heavy road users. However, account must also be taken of the fact that almost a quarter of accidents involve active users, i.e. pedestrians and cyclists. Accidents are caused almost exclusively by failure to comply with road signs and slaloms between closed barriers. Objectively, the total elimination of a road thus increases safety for both motorised and active users. After all, pedestrians and cyclists no longer have the possibility to cross the road when the gates are closed. As far as your second question is concerned, I have not yet received any figures from Infrabel, for which I apologise. For your third question, Infrabel tries to create at appropriate distances a fine-meshed network of passageways for pedestrians and cyclists in consultation with the concerned municipalities. I can only encourage that as a minister. This distance should be proportionate in terms of social benefits and costs to the expected use. There must be a balance between many interests in the consideration dossier. In particular, safety concerns are a major source of accidents and delays, which makes it possible to speak of real black spots in Belgian rail traffic. Of the interests I mention social cohesion in municipalities and the impact of possible closures on road mobility. I would like to draw attention to the fact that Infrabel is already fully committed to consultation and cooperation with municipalities, including in order to ensure the mobility of active road users. At the same time, it is also important that a review of the regulation should better frame the removal of consideration, in order to provide both Infrabel, the municipalities and the active road users with a basis of objectively defined criteria. As has already been announced, I am working on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I welcome your communication that a regulatory review is needed. That was also very clear in our hearings. From my own experience, I must contradict you and confirm what the speakers in the hearings underlined, namely that there is little or no consultation. I am therefore very much looking forward to the revision of the legislation, for which I have also tabled a legislative proposal. I understand the safety to consider needs to be increased. Perhaps it is interesting to see if there are other ways of preventing road users from slaloming between barriers. Especially in rural areas, the impact of the abolition of consideration is enormous.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u70	Mr Minister, as you know, my party has a principle of respecting social negotiations and trusting the social partners. There is therefore no question for me to ask you at this stage to interfere in the ongoing negotiations between the trade unions and the management of SNCB and Infrabel. However, there can be no question of ignoring the context of these negotiations, and in particular that the margin of negotiation is, in part, determined by the public means allocated to public undertakings and beyond that, we find ourselves in a context of liberalisation of the internal rail market with significant challenges for SNCB. However, these challenges concern the whole company. It is obvious that future adaptations will have to be made with the railwaymen and not against them. As has been seen in other public companies, such as bpost and Proximus, successful developments are those that have been achieved with the confidence of the unions. The passages in force only led to blockages. Mr Minister, without going into the details of the ongoing negotiations, do you think that the conditions are in place to establish trust between the social partners? Do you think that the partners around the table have sufficient tools and means to reach a balanced agreement? Do you understand the fears of railway workers in the face of the challenges ahead?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u71	Mrs Hanus, thank you for asking me about such an important subject as the social negotiations in the Belgian railways. I fully understand the wish of the railway workers to have the best working conditions and the best wage conditions. It's legitimate as it is for any worker. It is not, however, for me, as you have pointed out, to interfere in the social negotiations which take place in this autonomous public undertaking between management and workers' representatives, which does not prevent me from paying attention to the respect and quality of the social dialogue which I naturally encourage. It is undeniable that the covid crisis has had a significant budgetary impact on our economy and in particular on the SNCB. This difficult situation, however, must not be passed on to the railwaymen who continued to work admirably during the crisis of the covid. I have thanked them many times. I would also like to take this opportunity to do so again. To compensate for SNCB's loss of revenue, the federal government decided at the end of June to support SNCB through a new flat-rate grant of EUR 150 million, in addition to the one-off flat-rate grant of EUR 148 million granted by the government to SNCB at the beginning of February. Similarly, you know, as I do, that the government agreement provides for the SNCB to have a ten-year monopoly on passenger transport. This monopoly will begin when the future public service contract is signed. I remain cautiously optimistic about the development of the health situation, which is improving every day, if there were no delta variant. It is only with the improvement of the health situation that we can see a structural financial improvement of the SNCB with the return of travellers. In spite of this budgetary situation, railway undertakings have been able to set up a system of reimbursement of the kilometres travelled by railway workers by bicycle between their homes and their places of work. This is a welcome first step, but obviously not enough. On the other hand, one of the essential elements of the government agreement on rail is, as I said, the option of assigning directly, for a period of ten years, a public service mission to SNCB. I think this is likely to provide useful reinsurance elements for workers' representatives as to the future that the government wants to give their company. The improvement of the SNCB's financial situation and respect for the public service are two essential conditions for the proper holding of social dialogue. They are either combined or in the process of being combined as regards the financial situation. I hope that, on this basis, the discussions that will resume at the beginning of the year will lead to a new social agreement. I will continue to follow these discussions remotely, with the intention that they take place where they should take place, within the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for taking the time to answer this highly important question for the workers and especially for the representatives of the workers who are, it can be said, very attentive to the question and very demanding to see a quality service maintained for our Belgian railway. I would also like to thank you for your caution in taking the floor, given the ongoing negotiations. So I will not hesitate to come back later when we have news of these negotiations in the public space.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u73	Minister, I do not need to explain to you that during the holiday period, with these covid conditions, we must remain particularly alert. Especially in airports and train stations, we need to make sure that passengers meet the conditions for travel. Last week we had to learn that positive infected young people in Spain could fly home without problems. That, of course, raises questions. To what extent does this work well in our airports and in train stations with international train connections?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u74	Mr Van den Bergh, this is an interesting question for many people, just before the holiday. First of all, I would like to clarify a few things about everyone's responsibilities in the corona checks on international travel. The responsibility to carry out checks on the corona formalities of departing passengers on the basis of the directives of the countries of destination lies with the air carriers. However, it is up to the federal police to organise the on-the-spot check in such a way that coronaunsafe situations in the airport buildings are avoided. I would like to refer you to my colleague from the Interior, Mrs Verlinden, for more information on the corona checks that fall within her competence. As regards rail, according to the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020, the implementation of the control of the Passenger Locator Form and of the health documents is the task of rail transport operators who ensure transport from a country outside the EU and outside the Schengen area. In Belgium, therefore, it is only the railway undertaking Eurostar. Taking into account its transport plan, which is limited to a single outward and return journey per day between London and Brussels, and the very limited number of passengers taking the train due to the travel restrictions imposed by the respective authorities, checks within the Brussels-South Schengen terminal are without problems. My administration also organises meetings with the aviation and tourism sectors to provide all the necessary information on the corona formalities. The various companies will then be able to communicate the adapted information to the passengers. This government works closely with all parties concerned to facilitate the verification of the corona formalities. My cabinet is and remains in close and regular consultation with my colleague Verlinden's cabinet. At the beginning of July, our two Cabinets participated in a meeting, together with the federal police, the Railway Police, BAC and the National Crisis Centre, to discuss the control of incoming travellers. In order to identify any problems and bottlenecks, it was agreed that the government would exercise the control of the corona formalities on incoming passengers, with the focus on passengers from non-Schengen countries and passengers with point of departure in red zones, as defined at European level. My colleagues and I are closely following developments in the health situation in Europe. If necessary, we are prepared to take additional measures to strengthen the corona controls, but each must assume its responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Of course everyone has their responsibility, but given the situation in a number of countries it seems important to me to be alert. If it is read that Brussels Airlines succeeds in effectively controlling the corona passport of most departing passengers, while other carriers are much less successful, then this calls for the necessary attention. Moreover, if we find that only one returning passenger in three fills in the PLF and this is only checked in a small way, for example in the airport, I believe that there may be improvements. So I think it is important to stay alert, especially in view of developments in our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u76	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Rohonyi's 55019684C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u77	How do you framework these ambitions, Mr. Minister, supported by Europe within your very ambitious objective of doubling rail freight transport by 2030?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u78	Mr De Spiegeleer, Infrabel tells me that he is indeed part of the project. After all, the PIONEERS plans are perfectly in line with both the current government's ambition and the business objectives and ambitions. They also form part of the partnership with the Port of Antwerp and Railport. The file submitted by PIONEERS consists of the following large clusters of projects:clean energy production, storage and supply, sustainable model design, modal shift and flow optimization and digital transformation. Infrabel participates in a project under the third cluster, being modal shift and flow optimization. The objective of the cluster is to contribute to the achievement of the ambition of doubling the volume of rail freight transport. Infrabel works closely with the Antwerp Harbour Company and Railport as part of the project. More specifically, Infrabel, Port of Antwerp and Railport will jointly develop a common IT platform. As you rightly point out, the current government is aiming for a significant improvement in rail freight transport with a view to doubling its volume by 2030. The port of Antwerp is one of the pillars of the Belgian economy. It depends on an efficient and insured supply and disposal of massive quantities of goods. Unfortunately, rail transport has only a limited role to play here today. The port faces a number of challenges, including road congestion, the need for sustainability, the steady growth of container transport and the demand for greater flexibility and efficiency. Rail can provide an important response to these challenges. Infrabel will actively support the growth of rail transport from its strategic vision. Like the current government on a national scale, Infrabel, together with the Port of Antwerp, aims to double the share of rail in port transport over a period of ten years. Today, the share of rail in the modal split in Antwerp is only 7%. Port of Antwerp and Infrabel have therefore jointly examined the necessary steps for a significant growth in rail trade. To this end, they have concluded a memorandum of cooperation with each other. Infrabel strives, in line with the objectives of this government and with all stakeholders, to actively seek ways to expand rail freight transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u79	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It's somewhat reassuring. I would also like to thank you for the shared concern and ambition on this issue. This will undoubtedly be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u80	With the current transport plan, SNCB will have increased its train offer by 4.7 % by 2023. This plan includes new IC connections, more trains on existing connections and extra early and late trains around the cities. The suburban train offer around Brussels, Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi is also being expanded. The assessment of the opportunity of new stops or the reopening of former stops can best be included in the regional transport plans of the transport regions. These are the appropriate tools to ensure that demand is met by all relevant actors in the area of mobility. SNCB is active in the relevant bodies. In preparing each new transport plan, SNCB will therefore consider whether it is desirable and technically and financially possible to set up additional stops. Each new transport plan will bring us a step closer to our vision 2020-2040. The aim is in any case to increase the frequency and amplitude of the service. The transport supply will be strengthened, inter alia, in the largest agglomerations of the country such as Brussels, Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi. Here we will develop the S-offer better, especially in the evening and at the weekend, and better publish it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u81	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, even though this is not very encouraging for the agglomerations in Antwerp and Ghent. It is noteworthy that in practice these two agglomerations are deprived of serious investment in suburban networks, both in terms of additional improved facilities and in terms of innovation, especially when we see that three diesel lines still belong to the Ghent GEN. In addition to the rather expensive investments in blue announcement poles and in the clumsy digital signs on the trains themselves, passengers in the agglomerations of Ghent and Antwerp remain deprived of tangible mobility investments on the ground itself. There are therefore no additional investments at stop points and there is no dedieselisation of the regional network around Ghent. I also think it is a little cheap that you refer to the transport regions. When one sees what the Brussels-Capital Region is allocated under the GEN, I frown on the eyebrows. Also in Liège, in the context of AnGeLiC, they have no complaints about the suburban network, when they see that the stations of Chaudfontaine, Ougrée and Seraing have already been reopened. Also the opening of the stops Saint-Léonard, Vennes, Cornillon is already in the pipeline. I see Community problems here. Flanders is in the fucking corner when it comes to suburban nets. I find that not surprising, but certainly remarkable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u82	Brussels Airport Company is a private company which is largely owned by private investors. That's not my choice, it's just a fact. The appointment of the Chairman of the Management Board is a joint decision of the private shareholder and the public shareholder. The person responsible is the Federal Participation and Investment Company (FPIM) and thus the Minister of Finance. The selection procedure is under way and it is not for me to comment on an appointment in a private company.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u83	Your answer doesn't seem to have much substance. We'll follow this through the FPIM.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u84	Madam President, Mr Roggeman, for the general framework, I would refer you to my reply at the committee meeting on 22 June. SNCB has provided me with the figures on the evolution of the concessionaires. I'll get them to you in writing. All premises which are concessionable by SNCB have been granted by concession. No records are kept for each province. The revenues from the concessions are strategic and confidential data on which SNCB does not communicate. Since the start of the crisis, SNCB has made every effort to ensure the availability of trains and the accessibility and accessibility of the stations. Several measures were taken to maintain that service at all times, to enable the various activities at the stations to be rapidly re-launched, in proportion to the phasing-out of the public measures. For SNCB it was also important to offer a commercial recovery plan to concessionaries in the stations. SNCB already informed me of the following elements of that plan: A commercial gesture in the form of a reduction in the monthly fixed fee or the monthly guaranteed minimum. This subsidy amounts to 20% since March last year and was also 30% for a few months. An interest-free payment plan for a maximum period of 24 months in respect of the fees from March to December 2020. The concessionary was not required to pay any compensation during the period from March to August and was able to pay it later. That gave the concessionaries breathing space during this difficult period. The extension of the contract to allow more time for the depreciation of investments and an extension of the period of revenue and, finally, adapted opening hours and business days. These structural aids to the concessionaires at the stations are made up of a series of aid measures which meet in different ways this less obvious period for concessionaires and for the whole economy. Their overall response to SNCB is mainly positive. This is also reflected in the limited number of bankruptcies. According to SNCB's data, the majority of these bankrupt companies were already in financial difficulties. SNCB therefore believes that it is a solid package of aid measures, which also respects the principle of equality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u85	Minister, I agree with you that profitable concessions are in the interest of SNCB. No one has anything to do with vacant concessions and empty storerooms. They do not teach the traveller, nor do they pay for SNCB. It is important to continue to follow up on this in the coming months and, where possible, to extend aid measures, because the number of passengers is far from satisfactory. We must continue to monitor this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u86	Mr Roggeman, I think you have received the written reply this morning, but I can read it here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u87	For me, Minister, you may as well refer to the written answer, but this may be a challenge for the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u88	It is important, however, that the secretariat gets that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u89	That's not a problem. It's ready.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u90	The Minister refers to the written reply. Mr Roggeman, you can now replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u91	Minister, I have heard from the cabinet staff that Infrabel is apparently unable to give figures on road use. I'm a little worried about that. If neither Parliament nor the Minister has objective figures on the use of lanes, then this is causing problems. We often hear arguments from Infrabel for the strengthening of infrastructure, for the extension of tracks on busy lines, for an increase in capacity on freight corridors and for an extension of the Brussels North-South link. If there is no data on this, then I wonder how Infrabel will motivate additional investments in that note. It is often about projects costing tens of millions of euros, sometimes even hundreds of millions of euros, and in the case of the Brussels North-South link, it is even about several billions. In the light of these projects, I find it worrying that Infrabel cannot tell us how many trains a rail line can handle, how many trains there are today and how many free lanes are still available. I would then like to ask what objective basis the large yards of Infrabel are based on. At least that's a big gap in Infrabel's coverage today. I would therefore like to make a friendly appeal for this to be taken on board and for this to be effectively based, because how can policy control be carried out if there are no figures? In that case, neither Infrabel nor you, as the competent minister, can make informed decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u92	Mr Roggeman, I have not yet received the answer from Infrabel. As soon as I get it, I'll get it to you as soon as I can. The cabinet has not received all the answers to the interesting questions put by Members, for which I apologise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u93	Minister, I understand that you are dependent on information you obtain from Infrabel. I can only regret that the answer is not available today. For the sake of clarity, this is a written question which was retabled as an oral question because I was not allowed to receive an answer to it. Unfortunately, the deadline for answering that written question had already expired a few months ago. Apparently, that's a problem after all. I will re-table the same question with a view to dealing with the post-summer recess period, so that there is certainly time to provide the necessary information and to give you the necessary explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u94	Mr Roggeman, we are getting a lot of questions and answering them requires a lot of work from Infrabel, the SNCB and my services. Everyone's doing their best.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u95	Mr Secretary of State, you have every sympathy for that. It's our job to ask questions and your job to answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u96	Mr Roggeman, as a former Member of Parliament, I know that. No problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u97	A little patience, because I can't find the answer right away. Madam President, could you repeat the number of the question?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u98	It's about question No. 55019763C. We can ask Mr Roggeman for some patience.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u99	I am certainly patient, Madam President, but I understood that the Minister had other plans within ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u100	Let us first look at the next question and then we shall come back to your question, Mr Roggeman.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u101	Minister, I have heard that there would seem to be a problem with the M7 carriages in trains running on 25 kilovolt lines. It is noted that there are electromagnetic disturbances on the axle counters, so it has been decided in consultation with Infrabel that only one M7 vehicle may remain on these lines per train. Is that right? What is the impact of this on the further roll-out of the M7 trains? I don't know how many lines that tension has and what's planned for the roll-out of the M7 carriages. I'd like a little more explanation on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u102	I refer you to the reply I gave at the previous committee meeting in connection with the topical debate on heat waves, both as regards the state of play, the planning of roll-out and the evaluation of the first series. As a reminder, until today, 62 carriages M7 were put into service. The performance of the M7 vehicles in commercial service is closely monitored. The performance and reliability of the vehicles delivered comply with the concrete agreements. In the summer of this year the first series cars BDx and Bmx will be used in commercial service. For the non-districts, these are the two types of steering carriages, one of which is motorized and the other is not. The last deliveries under the first order of the M7 are scheduled to take place in the course of 2023. The last Bmx steering stations will be delivered at the end of the first quarter of 2023, the last BAB carriages and BDx steering stations are scheduled for the end of the third quarter of 2023. Nothing has changed since the last meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u103	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. That overview was known to me and nothing has changed. The e-mail to Mr Kerckaert is very recent. May I conclude from your answer that the technical problem that only one carriage can be deployed on 25 kilovolt lines will have no impact on the further roll-out and will not compromise implementation? I can conclude from that if the initial planning is maintained?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u104	No, I don't have any further information, but I'll check it out. I'm not as pessimist as you are, Mr. Tumbles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u105	Mr Minister, I would like to thank you for allowing yourself to answer questions here today. I do criticize you regularly, but you are doing much better than your predecessor, and I appreciate that additional questions could be answered today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u106	Madam President, I have found the answer to Mr Roggeman's question on the high degree of immobility of SNCB's carriages.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u107	Mr Roggeman, I suppose we can now listen to the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u108	Mr Roggeman, the availability of SNCB's rolling stock is expressed in the degree of immobilisation. The lower this degree is, the higher the availability. The immobilisation rate for 2020 is already 20 % lower by 14.6 % than in 2013. The target for 2021 is 14.2 %. I will send you the number of incidents per type of equipment for the period 2017-2020 by email. These figures are based on Infrabel's allocation of delays. An incident report shall be recorded when the cause is a problem for the equipment with a delay of more than 20 minutes for the train in question, resulting in a delay of more than 40 minutes, including other impacted trains, resulting in a cancellation of trains. This always concerns the combination of primary delays on the defective trains themselves and the resulting delays on other trains, their journey being disrupted because, for example, they were behind defective trains. During the period 2017-2019, there will be an increase in the number of incidents for the different types of equipment, mainly caused by more sensitive safety systems, structural ageing problems, extreme weather conditions and specific quality problems. In 2020, a decrease in the number of incidents resulting from the impact of the COVID-19 transport plan, organisational improvements, technical adjustments to the equipment and a mild winter was observed. The age of the equipment varies between 7 years for the Desiro trains and 46 years for the MS66 trains, with an average age of 25 years. The reliability of the older equipment is a factor 2 to 3 worse. The gradual inflow of the new equipment, type M7, and the decommissioning of older equipment has the effect of reducing the average age of the equipment to 18 years by 2023, which is comparable to other countries. The equipment is sensitive to the weather conditions. The increase in heat waves and record temperatures over the past few years led to more material disturbances such as traction problems. Winter conditions also give rise to more problems, such as failures, problems with heating, wear and tear on the pantograph and on the doors. A specific action plan will be implemented to reduce the impact of these weather conditions with a focus on preventive measures in maintenance, real-time management measures and structural measures to replace sensitive components. In order to increase the safety of train traffic, it is decided to equip all the equipment with the ETCS safety system by 2023. However, this new safety system increases the complexity of the equipment, increasing the sensitivity to incidents. The deployment of this system is accompanied by a number of childhood diseases, for which an action plan is carried out in close cooperation with the manufacturer and Infrabel. In the case of a significant proportion of incidents, no clear cause was found during the repair. In some cases, this leads to repeated incidents. The introduction of an electronic log, the roll-out of telemetry on the equipment for an automatic collection of data and the sending of alarms in conjunction with the development of a technical desk in real time and the diagnosis of support production in the workshops are important actions to further improve the results. The age of the equipment has an important influence on its reliability. In addition, there are other factors affecting reliability, such as the complexity of the equipment, the intrinsic quality of the park's series size, the number of kilometres travelled, external weather conditions and the installation of the ETCS. The best results are achieved by the most recent equipment. The older types of vehicles with an average age of 46 years have a reliability that is up to three times worse. That makes sense, because this material will be phased out of service by the end of 2023. The best results are achieved by the latest HLE 18 and HLE 19 for electric locomotives. The older types of locomotives with an average age of 36 years have a reliability that is up to three times worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u109	Mr. Secretary, can you finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u110	I'm almost done, Madam President. Also for the carriages the rule is that the latest equipment, the M6 and M7, has the best results. SNCB has ordered additional M7 double-deck vehicles. Thus, the train equipment rejuvenates and the number of seats increases. And your joy, too, I hope, Mr Roggeman?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u111	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive and detailed answer. A number of exogenous factors, such as the weather, determine the age of the rolling stock and traction equipment. Fortunately, we live in hope with the delivery of the M7 carriages. What amazes me is your statement that the roll-out of the ERTMS creates additional complexity, as well as additional risk factors for the failure of the devices. We must continue to monitor this aspect, because it would be a pity that the increased safety is at the expense of the mobility of rolling stock.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u112	Madam President, I will read my answer as soon as possible. I apologise already to the translators. As you pointed out, Mrs. Hanus, my ambitions for rail are great. We share them, it seems to me. My primary ambition is to make rail the backbone of mobility in Belgium, which requires an improvement in the rail supply, but also the modernisation of the existing infrastructure, in particular the 161 and 162 lines I know as well as you. It is precisely because there is modernisation work on these lines that it is not possible for SNCB to ensure amplitudes as wide as before. In order to minimize the impact of these two construction sites on traffic during the week, they were planned over a long period of time, mainly at night and during the weekend. There is always a choice to make: either we go fast and stop all the traffic, or we go a little slower and work at night and at weekends. SNCB informs me that, in normal circumstances, it provides a final departure from Brussels-Midi to Arlon at 21:33 pm with IC 2121, to Rochefort-Jemelle at 22:33 pm with IC 2122, and to Namur at 23:33 pm with IC 2123. These three trains as well as IC 2120 are currently limited to a shorter or discontinued journey – as is the case with IC 2123 – due to modernization work. I understand that this work and the resulting reduced hourly amplitude cause inconvenience to the inhabitants of the beautiful province of Luxembourg. But in the long run, I am convinced that this work will offer them a real alternative to the car. This work is necessary. To be able to move forward sufficiently during the night periods, you have to stop the traffic, which displeases me. But it's a pain for a better one, I would say. It is not a suppression of trains that is definitive, nor realized for pleasure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u113	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, the progress of the work will have a decisive impact on these journeys. Initially, the deletion of these trains was justified on the basis of covid. Now you're talking about work. I will therefore make a more precise analysis of the elements available to me in order to give my official opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u114	About the incident of 10 July, Brussels Airport Company (BAC) informs me that an alarm went off from one of the sorters, while there was no luggage there. The fault was caused by a break in the signal cable that goes to the alarm. It's the first time there was a short circuit in the middle of a cable. Further research is currently under way into how a short-circuit could occur there. About 3,000 of the luggage items processed in total 30,000 did not leave on Saturday 10 July with their original flight. The incident also delayed 32 of the 172 departing flights by an average of 38 minutes. The impact on check-in staff, chargers and loosers on the tarmac remained relatively limited. There was a greater impact on the operators' staff in the baggage room, the airport's technical staff and the airport operator's volunteers. They sorted and processed the luggage left behind in order to be able to send it as soon as possible. In addition, BAC informs me that many quota plans are in place in the event of problems with the baggage system at Brussels Airport, based on different scenarios. On 10 July there was a mechanical complication to one of the three main sorting facilities. It has been chosen to bridge one faulty installation and transfer all luggage items to the other two operating sorting systems. The procedure was carried out in a very structured manner by the staff today and followed closely. The year of construction is not a relevant parameter for a technical installation. Every year the luggage system undergoes several changes, which are constantly updated. As a result, almost no elements of the installation are the same. The latest major update of the software in question was delivered in 2020. Every major technical installation is continuously viewed and updated. In this sense, a technical intervention is a daily practice and part of the standard operation. Of course, most of these interventions are invisible to passengers or airlines. There are therefore more than 6,000 assets, which must be continuously operational. All techniques are maintained and inspected at least annually during prevention, maintenance and inspection rounds. In addition, the critical assets also undergo additional control rounds. It is the airport's priority to reduce such technical problems to the minimum. Since summer 2019, the airport has focused heavily on the development of several contingent plans for specific crash scenarios. These plans include regular training, workshops, tabletops and practice exercises. In the summer of 2019, a meeting was held in which BAC explained the problems of the baggage system to the representatives of the social partners, including the secretaries of the Swissport and Aviapartner trade unions. The meeting explained, among other things, that BAC has invested millions of euros in the luggage system to partially renew it by 2021. The investments are not intended to completely remove or replace the installations. As I mentioned earlier, all elements of the baggage installation are systematically replaced by new ones. The next major milestone is the replacement of the full screening equipment by the STD3 screening in 2021-2022. Investment in it has continued unabated despite the covid crisis. The new system will be extensively tested and systematically put into operation in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u115	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer, but the reality is completely different. I've had a lot of people on the phone about the situation at the workplace and the consequences of that breakdown were also very big for people who work in loading and unloading. Some people had to work up to 11 hours a day and didn't have time to eat. The situation is precarious for the workers at the airport. Working conditions are generally very poor. After the bankruptcy of Swissport, we see that the people at Alyzia now work with interim contracts, which did not improve working conditions. The employees feel that Brussels Airport is not making sufficient efforts. You answer that everything has happened with regard to maintenance, but that is not how these workers experience it. They see many failures and problems in the workplace that continue to exist. I would therefore recommend that you also listen to the people who work there, because they feel that Brussels Airport does not invest enough in the safety of workers. This is, of course, also very important for passengers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u116	Mr Minister, with Mrs Vindevoghel's question we discussed the last question before the summer recess. Thank you for the extra time you have spent answering questions in the Mobility Committee. Mr Roggeman wishes us all a pleasant summer recess through chat. I can conclude this last meeting before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u117	Thus, we can go on holiday the quiet conscience and with the feeling of the work done. I wish you a great holiday. I'll see you next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic550x.u118	Thank you, Minister.
