ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u1	Colleagues, we have a busy agenda this afternoon. May I ask you to keep an eye on time. I know this is not always easy, certainly not from home, but I would like to ask you to stay within the prescribed time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u2	Madam Minister, on Saturday 9 January, just before 7 p.m., police inspectors from the Brussels-North police area carried out checks on a group of people who had gathered at the North Square, despite the current COOVID-19 measures, with the permission of the mayor. A young man who was on the spot during the on-the-spot check ran away on foot, but was intercepted by the police after a chase. The young man was deprived of his freedom, after which he was transferred to the Commissariat for questioning. On arrival at the Commissariat Ibrahima Barrie loses consciousness and the police inspectors present inform the emergency services. An ambulance and the mosquito arrive at the scene and Ibrahima Barrie is transferred to the hospital, where unfortunately he dies around 8.30 p.m. The P Committee was informed and resigned on the spot. Also, the parquet had an autopsy and a tox screen carried out and had the surveillance footage confiscated in the Commissariat and at the location of the interpellation. Madam Secretary, could you give us more information on what happened on Saturday at the Brussels North Station? Is it already clear whether or not the P Committee will take further action on this matter? Has there been any contact with the mayor, with the people of the federal police, with your cabinet? Do you have any more information? I saw a cop on the news this weekend who was scared and told her experiences about that 500-person manifestation. What were your findings after you saw that message?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister, the death of a 23-year-old is obviously a tragedy and an event that we regret, given the circumstances. Madam Minister, if I may question you today, it is simply because it is an event that we hope will not happen again. We are in a tense environment. Not later than last week, we were talking in this committee about the link that needed to be re-created and the trust that needed to be restored between the citizen and our law enforcement agencies. This kind of dramatic event is a weakness in relation to what we are trying to build here, together, in this committee. Minister, this afternoon we are making the choice to combine two debates: a dramatic event on 9 January and a demonstration with violent acts that followed on 13 January. Of course, if we mix the two debates, we can end up on slippery ground and want to justify the second by the first, and vice versa. I hope that my colleagues will make a good distinction between these two events and will not link them too easily, by victimizing each other. Madam Minister, what I expect of you today is that you will tell us what contacts you have made on this issue and what we already have. The press discloses information every day and some things contradict each other. Of course, we must take this information very carefully. What also concerns me, and we have already been able to talk about it, is that in the last few weeks there have been a number of events. They all have one thing in common, it's filming the police. This visibly creates many tensions during police interventions. Minister, how can we put an end to this kind of behaviour? How can we ensure that no police officer will try to stop a citizen from filming him? What are the penalties for police officers who refuse to be filmed? This kind of event shows us once again the interest of bodycams. Could you remind us once and for all about the right to film the police? No matter where it comes from, violence must be condemned. We still had an example not later than yesterday: another person died in a cell in the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles area and we are waiting for the investigation to shed light on the circumstances of this death. I believe that we need to use these dramatic incidents to move forward together on how we need to train our police officers, how we need to inform citizens, and how we need to re-establish a real bond of trust between citizens and our law enforcement agencies. These events are accumulating, probably helped by the health crisis. Madam Minister, I would like you to be able today to make all the transparency on these unfortunate incidents and to answer all the questions that my colleagues and myself are asking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u4	Mr. Chairman, I will consolidate my two questions into one. Madam Minister, on 13 January, serious incidents broke out on the margins of the demonstration in tribute to Ibrahima, who died a few days earlier in a Brussels police station, in tragic and regrettable circumstances. Confrontations between demonstrators and law enforcement officials took place at the end of the rally. A police station was then set on fire, in which two police officers found themselves trapped in the building. As a result, the demonstrators damaged six police cars and fired fire at a ticket distributor, a tram, and several cars and shops. On the human level, 15 police officers were injured, including one officer, unfortunately seriously. These events are particularly challenging, as the police were once again targeted. Minister, I wonder why the mayor of Saint-Josse-ten-Noode authorized this gathering. In the midst of a health crisis, and at a time when every Belgian is being asked to maintain his efforts, this seems to me to be particularly inappropriate. Beyond that, I was, like many citizens, shocked by the images we saw. I am also interlocked, because it is unbearable to see such events repeated more or less regularly in our capital. First of all, I'd like to have a thought about the injured police officer. Do you have any news about his state of health? In addition to what you have already taught us at the last plenary session, I would like to come back with you to the police system that was in place at this demonstration. The police, in fact, seemed to be quickly overwhelmed by the events. Can you explain to us the means that had been mobilised that day? Were they sufficient? We learned that the mayor of Saint-Josse-ten-Noode had not complied with the law by not warning the Committee for the Prevention and Protection at Work of the arrangements put in place for this demonstration. According to the Free Trade Union of the Public Service (SLFP) Police, everything would have been organized "in stoemeling" by the mayor. Do you have more information on this point? How can I explain it? What can be the consequences? Was notice of strike filed as a result of these events? Finally, last Thursday, you announced to us that you would take civil action as a result of the violence. Did you do it? If not, do you maintain this commitment? You also stated that you invited the mayors concerned to do the same. Do you know if they did? Minister, you have repeated on several occasions that you would apply zero tolerance to violence against police officers. Here's a good opportunity to demonstrate it. I now turn to my second question, which concerns the security of the King when he travels in convoys. During the events I have just mentioned, the King's vehicle was stuck, despite him, in the heart of the heat. How can such a lack of coordination and anticipation between the police and the security service of the Royal Palace be explained? Why wasn't the convoy diverted earlier? I can't help but wonder about the security device that was in place. Indeed, a single vehicle accompanied that of the sovereign, which is all the more worrying in times of terrorist threat. Is it usual for the royal convoy to consist of only two vehicles while travelling? If so, do you consider this to be a sufficient guarantee of safety? Has any thought been given to this issue following this recent event? Finally, have there ever been incidents in the past concerning the displacement of the royal convoy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u5	I refer to the written version of my question. Mr De Maegd was so full that I can afford it. I am particularly looking forward to the evaluation of the incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u6	Mr President, we are in a situation where we are talking about a demonstration organised in the context of the death of a man. We must – and I echo the words of my Socialist colleague – measure this aspect, as we must measure that a number of police officers are hospitalized and that one of them is in a rather serious condition. For several months, many police officers have been hospitalized – they will have to return. As our excellent colleague De Maegd has pointed out, the question arises about the authorization of this event – I will not repeat this aspect – but I want to question you, Minister, on a number of issues related to the organisation and supervision of this event. Indeed, we have the right to ask ourselves questions when seven platoons of police – about 280 policemen – were on the scene for 400 to 500 demonstrators. Despite such a strong mobilization, we were able to witness the overflows that we witnessed: think of the cars, of a burning police station. In fact, you may have seen that Mr. Pivin and I are putting forward a bill to aggravate sanctions against perpetrators who damage or destroy movable or immovable property reserved for the use of public authority. But I come back, Mr. President, to the question. As you know, Madam Minister, there are provisions in Circular OOP41/2014, which sets out the basis for the negotiated management of the public space, a number of constraints, including those for the mayor, and which provides for an order of operations to be established. This order of operations allows for rapid deployment and an action plan in the event of overflows. This strategy will allow police officers to act quickly and take less risk. Despite the 7 police platoons mobilized today for this event, the heavy overburdens we have witnessed are quite incomprehensible and invite us to ask ourselves a number of questions. According to our sources, we learn that during the demonstration there would have been two levels of command. You know, normally, in this type of demonstration, you have a command step as set out in the circular I have just mentioned and within the framework of this circular, the procedure is for the zone chief to be present. There is usually also the mayor – but we were told that the mayor was not present. According to our information, there was a lack of instructions from the Gold and the federal police who were present and in reinforcement that day even had another open channel of transmission. We therefore had for the same demonstration two command centres and two channels of transmission open. This raises a number of questions. When you put these elements on the table, it's not surprising to see, after all, the absence of a plan of operations, a double command, two channels of transmission. In the light of this information, it is not surprising today that these spillovers are more understandable. So, Madam Minister, are you aware of a procedure for evaluating management at the area level to identify the various shortcomings? Do you have any information on how the command was put in place, how the Gold worked, information about this dual command and these multiple channels of transmission? If this is the case and you have made the same observations as we have, do you think it would be useful to instruct the Inspector General to analyse this situation? Of course, we cannot fail to comply with the procedures that are provided for. I'll finish with that, sir, thanking you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u7	Colleagues, the Rules of Procedure provide for two minutes to ask a question. You talked for five minutes. That is not the case, the minister must respond and the agenda is on the table. I would therefore ask the following speakers to observe the speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u8	Mr. President, you're putting pressure on me. It may have been five minutes, but five very interesting minutes. Minister, seeing our police officers go through, back, kneeling in front of rioters in the Brussels neighbourhoods has become quite unbearable to me, and I think that for many of our fellow citizens it is too. You have only been in charge for three months, and yet the news has already given me the opportunity, unfortunately, to question you on this subject on several occasions. Moreover, we must note that this time the riots are linked to the organisation of a demonstration which has taken place in total contradiction with the health measures in force and which are binding on all Belgians. Our police officers can therefore be sent to the homes to verify the reality of about forty, but in the meantime, we are spectators of police officers who are on their knees before being rushed to hospitals, who are also having difficulty managing the pandemic. At the same time – I would like to say "cherry on the cake", if it wasn't unnecessarily ironic – we were able to see that the king's vehicle was very close to the rioters. Therefore, Minister, these are my specific questions about the course of events. Who was specifically entitled to grant permission for this event in view of the health measures in place? Have you been informed of its release? What police services define the risk analysis for the authorization of such an event? Let us be clear, on what criteria is the choice to allow the event rather than prohibit it? Can you confirm or deny that the entire procedure has been followed? Were all the services to be consulted – including the CPPT? How has the DAS been requested or not in the preparation of the police mechanism to organize the demonstration? Have you initiated a monitoring procedure to assess whether the approval process for the event was correct? Have you been notified of a strike notice in the police service following the riot? Have you received such notice? What steps have you taken in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u9	Madam Minister, like my colleague, I regret that the debates on the demonstration and the death of Ibrahima are linked here. Wednesday evening, in Schaerbeek, there was a demonstration in support of the Ibrahima family. The authorization granted by the mayor was valid from 2 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. According to LaDernière Heure, however, it appears that the police dislodged the demonstration on the 5 p.m. coup, when the first clashes were observed. On the police side, the president of the SLPF union, Mr. Vincent Gilles, criticized the mayor for failing to comply with the legislation, as he should have informed the Committee for Prevention and Protection at Work live of the police system put in place. The CPPT could then have made remarks about the order of operations and demanded superior material or human resources, if it felt that the police were in danger. As a result, SLFP filed a strike notice with the police of Brussels North and the Directorate of Public Security. Therefore, minister, could you trace the time line of the demonstration? When and for what reasons was the decision to dislocate the gathering put in place? Do you confirm that the mayor did not warn the CPPT, as required by law? What are the consequences? I come to the death of 23-year-old Ibrahima, who was arrested on Saturday, January 9. According to the initial information provided to the family, the cause was cardiac arrest. However, the autopsy report indicates that the pre-existing cardiac anomaly alone could not explain it. As a first step, some media reported that Ibrahima had used drugs, hence her unease. However, the toxicological tests contradict this version. Mr. Deswaef, the family lawyer, spoke in the press about this. He denounces this "victim blaming" and questions the source of this allegation, which, according to him, can only be found in the ranks of the police. He also denounced the problem of structural racism in the police, indicating that he did not think that such a thing could have happened to his own son. I quote: "The legality of control is also called into question. It appears that Ibrahima was checked for simply filming agents who were doing an intervention near the northern station. This is not the first time that citizens have been caught by some police officers for the mere fact of filming an intervention. We remember the events in Waterloo." Yesterday, the death of a paperless Algerian man in a police station was also reported. In ten days, we end up with two deaths in police stations. I think it's pretty serious. According to Mr. Dewael, there was a police leak on an allegation of drug use. Therefore, minister, do you think that the secret of the investigation was violated? Has an internal investigation been initiated to identify the origin of this leak? The allegation of drug use seriously affects the victim's memory. Could you officially confirm that the toxicological reports are negative in order to restore the truth? And finally, filming the police being neither a crime nor a reason for arrest, could you tell me the reason for the control and arrest of Ibrahima? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u10	Madam Minister, it is a good thing that so many Members are asking questions about this terrible and also avoidable incident. I call it 'avoidable', because it simply should never have happened. I do not believe that a mayor should allow such a manifestation to take place at the moment, with a risk analysis that was not advanced and was not finished. So it was avoidable. Besides, it's also a terrible incident, because a young man died. We must not forget that, because it is regrettable. We have all paid tribute to the man. In conjunction with that, it is equally terrible that there were destructions, that 15 people were injured, and that a police officer was so I heard that he even had to fight to survive. We hope she's okay and that you can say something about her already. I also hope that she will be able to regain confidence in her job very quickly. She and all her colleagues in the enlargement process need you to do so, Madam Secretary. As we know, zero tolerance was expressed very quickly about a year and a half ago, but it should also be translated into decisive measures, and we look forward to it incredibly. I'll stay within my speaking time. I just wanted to say this and for the rest I would like to refer to my numerous questions that I have submitted digitally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u11	Mr President, first of all, I think that we should have been able to discuss the problem of the death of this young man in cell on 9 January and the problem of the unacceptable riots that followed this unfortunate event. I think it would have been wiser to distinguish and divide the two debates. Having said that, I would like to go back to the circumstances of the young man's death. All the more so since, as president of a police zone, I myself was confronted with this kind of event, three years ago, since a participant of the Dour festival died in a degreasing cell in my area. Finally, it raises a lot of questions. We still have regular cases of people dying in cells. Minister, are the equipment in the police stations sufficient to deal with such urgent medical situations? Are all agents trained in the correct and efficient use of these equipment, such as the defibrillator? Otherwise, it can be assumed that they are properly trained in first aid operations. Is that so? What are the planned upgrades to these competencies and how often are they organized? How are they followed? These questions obviously arise for all police personnel and not only in the area concerned by this tragic fact. Moreover, it would appear that the family was informed only late of their son's death. Can you tell me what the procedures followed in this case are and how they were applied in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u12	Madam Minister, in addition to the two terrible things, which are the unfortunate death of the young man and the riots that have followed on what should have started as a normal wake, I would like to add an extra element that is absolutely not of the same order. However, it was a consequence of what happened. Following the fact that the king had drove himself and at some point the vehicles would have been pounded with some stones, a number of policemen in the press complained about the operation of the service responsible for the supervision. They would have a shortage of staff and modern resources. Since a small year there have also been complaints about a supervisor. Is there an investigation into what went wrong that day? Do you have any clue as to what's going wrong in that service? Are you in contact with that service? Do you foresee an evaluation of the supervisor, as there are complaints about it? How can you ensure that the strike threat is removed when the new president of America visits our country and that Joe Biden's visit can happen in an orderly manner?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u13	Madam Minister, I would have liked to join the questions, not to repeat the same question from last week's plenary session. After all, like Mr Metsu, I am also pleased that a lot of Members have put forward questions today about the riots in Brussels against police officers. On the other hand, Mr Metsu, I am not pleased that very few questions have been put to the Minister of Justice. Madam Minister, that is what I pointed out to you last week. We need a two-track policy. There is, on the one hand, the police policy for which you are responsible. On the other hand, there is also a need for a judicial approach and a lick-up policy, for which the Minister of Justice is responsible. I see on the agenda of this afternoon's Committee on Justice that only two or three questions have been put about the riots in Brussels, which is a big difference. Madam Minister, I repeat that this is not a single fact. These are facts that have been repeated over the past year and over the last few years. The police feel really abandoned by the policy. It has only come to my attention that she has now even filed a strike notice. I would like to know how you react to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u14	Mr President, I would like to thank Members for the important questions they have put to me. I will try to respond as well and as fully as possible to all the comments on matters within my competence. I refer in advance to my reply on last week's incident in plenary. Even then, I noticed how terrible it is when a young person dies in circumstances that are still unclear today. I take this opportunity to express once again my condolences to the family and the friends. The riots that some of you referred to were preceded by a peaceful, static demonstration for the police commissioner where Ibrahima Barrie died last week. Since there seems to be some uncertainty about this, I would like to explain that this demonstration was made at the request of Ibrahima's family as a tribute to the young man, who died unfortunately and regrettablely, and to ask for clarity about the circumstances of his death, which has already happened in other circumstances. So that question of being allowed to argue does not make it a unique event. The Mayor of Saint-Joost-ten-Node then authorised the manifestation, taking into account Article 15 (9) of the Ministerial Decision imposing urgent measures to limit the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19. That article says that a static demonstration can still be held, provided that safety and sanitary measures are complied with. As soon as I became aware of the incident on 13 January, I wrote a letter, both to the mayor and to the Chief Constable, asking about the circumstances of the death, but also about the preparation and completion of the demonstration, its motivation and the risk analysis carried out by the mayor. It was effective for the mayor to authorize the demonstration. I understand that you have questions about the demonstration and its location, namely for the police commissioner. Mayors must make such a decision very carefully and meticulously, but I would like to stress once again that this is not within my competence. In that respect, I am not even the supervisory authority, which can look at any decisions on this matter. Not all the proposals and approvals of demonstrations will be put on my desk, but I understand where the questions that some of you have just asked come from are coming from. Although the corona rules also applied to the demonstration in question, we have seen that they were not respected. The demonstration did take place peacefully initially, thanks to the internal order service. It was only after the demonstration that things got out of hand. I will come back to the incident of 9 January at the Brussels North Station, where Ibrahima died. That's why I can't give you any details at the moment. The P Committee's Survey Service, headed by the Public Prosecutor's Office, is in the process of carrying out an investigation. The police area concerned, Brussels-Noord, is cooperating constructively in this investigation. Access to the judicial investigation was also requested with a view to possible measures, if these prove necessary. For this reason, Mr Metsu, I do not have any idea today of the time frame of the investigation, nor of the results of that investigation, but we will, of course, follow it closely. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the P Committee were also immediately on the spot and seized, among other things, images of the facts. This is important, because we have learned from previous incidents that a death after a police intervention must be taken seriously and evidence must be collected. As I said last week, we must respect the secret of the investigation, in the interests of a proper investigation, in order to prevent errors with negative consequences and, of course, out of respect for all concerned. Once again, therefore, I would like to ask for serenity to be preserved during the investigation. Incendiary statements in one sense or another break serenity and we do not need it. Last week I also immediately and without doubt stressed that the riots were totally unacceptable and undermine the respect for the deceased and the call for peace and calm of the family. The event was prepared as part of a single command structure and preparatory meetings were held between the various operational units of the police areas involved and the federal police. An integrated system had been put in place. A total of nine intervention platoons were mobilised with personnel from the Brussels-North, Brussels-Capital-Ixelles, the Federal Police and other Brussels areas. These platoons were supported by two federal police sprinklers. In the course of operations, two additional platoons from the Federal Reserve were engaged with each one of the sprinklers. The police have made 112 administrative arrests, including 30 minors, and 4 judicial arrests. I have asked my colleague, the Minister of Justice, to follow this dossier closely and urge swift prosecution. I would also refer to the intervention of the President, Mr Depoostere, in relation to the judicial follow-up of such incidents. Fifteen police officers were also injured, one of whom was seriously injured. I have indeed informed myself of this woman's condition. She's been in the hospital and she's getting better today, thank God. It is, of course, still on sick leave and is also given the necessary care and assistance in dealing with events and their consequences. In any case, I also asked the General Inspection AIG to investigate and monitor the exact circumstances of the violence against the police. Again, I cannot anticipate the outcome of the investigation, but I can say here that I have done everything in my power to verify the circumstances of this incident. I will also be a bourgeois party on behalf of the federal police. My words on zero tolerance are also followed and are not just something that is called loudly. Of course, we look first with the victims when we do so and how they experience the steps in the procedure, but there is no reason to doubt that I will follow them further. I have already invited the mayors of Brussels City and Saint-Joost-ten-Node to consider bourgeois elections for the members of their police forces. In any case, I will take further initiative, for my part, to strengthen the dimension of community-oriented police work in the training, training and operation of the police and to make the necessary investments. As you know, projects are already underway to bring the police and young people closer together. I will continue to work on this, along with all those involved. In this context, a hackathon will take place on 2 February 2021 to bring together young people and police. Of course, that is not a complete answer to the circumstances we have now seen, but I also strongly believe that we must continue to work on preventive measures. Ms. Song and Mr. Boukili, filming a police intervention is indeed a recurring theme. The principle in this regard is that there is an infringement only when the images are published without journalistic purpose. However, the Police Information Review Body (PIB) has issued an opinion that mere filming may be punishable in some cases. The Monitoring Body believes that the person filming the police officer must be able to demonstrate a legitimate interest at the time the images are filmed. In the absence of any legal basis, the person responsible for the images is subject to criminal punishment. In this respect, the COC relies on a judgment of the European Court of Justice of 14 February 2019. If filming can interfere with police intervention or disrupt public order and is requested to stop filming, police injunctions must be followed up. Mr. De Maegd, as I have already indicated, the police officer injured in these incidents has now left the hospital and is doing well. It is supported by my department but also by the heads of corps of the Ixelles, Brussels-Capital and Brussels-Nord police areas. The administrative authority had clearly defined in advance the tolerance threshold for the conduct of the event, the maximum number of participants of which had been set at 100, in accordance with the Ministerial Order in force. As soon as violence against law enforcement officials and damage to movable and immovable property were committed, administrative arrests were ordered, in consultation with the administrative authorities concerned. Following the incidents that occurred during this demonstration, I also instructed the General Inspectorate of the Police to conduct an investigation in this regard. I also intend to check with the Minister-President whether the necessary risk analysis has been completed correctly. As I have already mentioned, the supervisory authority in matters of public policy is not my responsibility but that of the Minister-President of the Brussels-Capital Region. Mr De Maegd, Mr Pillen and Mrs Ingels, because of the incidents near the North Station, the protection dispositive of His Majesty the King decided before his departure on the basis of the information available at that time to take an alternative route for the movement with the Head of State. In the vicinity of the Liedtsplein the convoy noticed delayed traffic and some stationary trams obstructed the passage. On arrival of the royal escort, police officers immediately took steps to clear the square. I would like to stress once again that the safety of His Majesty the King and his escort has not been compromised at any time. The next day there was also contact with the king's cabinet, who himself asked no further questions about the security dispositive and also confirmed that there was no sense of danger to the king's safety. At the request of the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police, an operational debriefing took place within the services concerned with a view to the lessons to be drawn for the future, as Mrs Ingels also asked. Of course, this will also be followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u15	Madam Secretary, violence against or by the police is absolutely unacceptable to us. I am therefore very pleased that you have taken the necessary steps very quickly and adequately, including the bourgeois election. I hope that you will be able to convince the mayors to do the same, because I believe that this is an essential signal. Several colleagues have agreed that it is also up to the Justice Department. It is now up to the Minister of Justice to show that violence by or violence against police officers is absolutely unacceptable and cannot go unpunished. I also follow you when you say that we should not use inflammatory language. I do hope, however, that a signal will be sent to the counsellor, who, in my opinion, served himself a few minutes before the manifestation. It is also good that you talk about the hackathon to see how young people and the police can respond more and respect each other. I believe that this is essential if we are to avoid having to discuss new facts here tomorrow. Finally, it is indeed up to the mayors to decide where or where a manifestation can take place. In that you have no authority at all. However, I think it is important to send a clear signal to the mayors, because the granting of authorisations to events must be handled very carefully in such situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u16	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. I am pleased to hear some of them and I think they are a good signal to re-establish a strong link and to fight against violence, regardless of the side from which they come. You also reminded us of the existence of aaketon (?), And I think it's a good thing. We had already been able to talk about this in your policy statement, and this is a path that we must continue in the coming months, so that this kind of mechanism is efficient and properly used. As far as the right to film is concerned, I hear your answer, but part of that answer surprises me. I think that we will have to wait until all the light is shed on these unfortunate events, so that we can understand what is really happening and correct the problem. Obviously, filming the police in the midst of an intervention has the effect of triggering dramatic events, as we have seen in recent months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u17	Minister, every death is a tragedy in itself, and the death of Ibrahima is also a dramatic event. It is up to the Justice to make the light and not to the citizens to self-proclaim justiciaries to do so on the street. I know you are advocating zero tolerance, but today the people feel zero tolerance only as a slogan. Those who take advantage of it to "crack the policeman" on any occasion must laugh under cape to see that this zero tolerance is only little if any followed by effect. I would like to make it clear that I have put a question to the Minister of Justice in this regard, as a result of these events. As my colleague Ducarme has rightly pointed out, the MR Group is going to table a bill in order to punish more severely those who attack public property and, in particular, law enforcement. Indeed, impunity can no longer last. The police are systematically between the hammer and the anvil, i.e. the hammer of those who strike on it and the anvil of the institutions, which do not help them enough. This sense of impunity for breakers must disappear, Brussels can no longer be the playing field for breakers of all kinds. As far as my second question is concerned, the security of the king, the head of state, seems to me to be an essential question, since she cannot suffer from any weakness. I recall that, unfortunately, the terrorist threat still exists. How does the convoy of the Head of State manage to be blocked in the middle of traffic jams, as you have said, or warmed up? I'm telling you, it's inexplicable to me. For a simple driver in Brussels – I do it every day – you just have to start an application like Waze so you don't get caught in the plugs. I dare to believe that coordination between the central dispatch of the police and the close security of the sovereign must be able to prevent the royal convoy from being systematically – I say correctly – protected from a demonstration or riot. It is about the security of the sovereign and the image of our country internationally. Minister, I am pleased to hear that very specific lessons will be learned from these riots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u18	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer to my sub-question, because it is actually about an incident that took place against a background that was much more important. I hear that an alternative route has been chosen, so that means that the services have responded adequately and that safety has not been compromised, which is very good. The images, which were also distributed internationally, which is of course never good, indicated something else, but I believe what you are saying, namely that safety has not been compromised. Apparently, an evaluation was carried out very quickly. That is very good, but it will have to be given permanent attention. This time it was our head of state, but soon probably the new American president or other VIPs will visit. It is therefore important to avoid such situations at all times.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u19	Madam Minister, you have invoked the secrecy of the investigation, but it has already been violated by the leaks that slandered Ibrahima. It was in order to restore the truth that I asked you these questions. There's been some leaks before.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u20	Mr. President, there's a baby crying. Is there anything we can do? We can hear it in the commission. I suggest you react.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u21	It's not here, Mr. Ducrame.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u22	Mr. President, I think it's at Mr. Ducrame's house. Let's stop the abuse, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u23	I think the baby's problem is solved! To return to my reaction, Mr. President, Minister, the leaks have already taken place. The secret has already been violated in the beginning. On the other hand, on the right to film, you have invoked disorder to public order, which leads to arbitrariness. The legislation tells us that the right to film exists. This right must not be called into question. The best thing is to respect the law. Is there a crime when a police intervention is filmed? The answer is no! Then why is there arrest? You said the police can ask to stop filming. But in this case, there was no such request, the arrest was direct. Clarification is still needed. There is a legal basis that gives the right to film and it is the duty of the police officer to demonstrate that there is a disturbance to public order.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u24	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. It is very useful to read it again quietly. Unless I missed it, I'm still a little hungry. Several police sources felt that a lot of damage could have been prevented if orders had been received more quickly. The government should have clearly stated what the red line was. If that red line was crossed, the people should be arrested. Now the police had to withdraw, with the only result that they saw the stones being thrown at them coming twice. Who should have given the orders in the end to be able to arrest faster?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answers. I think you have been quite complete, despite the fact that we had, and I understand what some colleagues may have said, two debates in one. Very sensitive, very humane issues, and then technical issues were brought together in the same debate. It was a little special, I would agree. Beyond the human tragedy and the death of this young man, beyond the hospitalizations of our police officers, what is the real question that many of us here are asking ourselves? This was underlined by Philippe Pivin in his first speech, which was highlighted by the Open-VLD colleague and Michel De Maegd. How is it that, with 280 police officers in charge for 400 to 500 demonstrators, there are such slippages, with police stations blazing in Brussels? That's the real question! You are telling us, Madam Minister, that you are going to instruct the Inspectorate General to investigate, on the one hand, risk analysis and, on the other hand, operationally, these questions of dual command and dual transmission. I think I'm going to have to contradict you, because I think Polbru didn't come to the Schaerbeek area. According to my information, seven platoons were present in the Schaerbeek area, and Polbru's reinforcements did not come to the Schaerbeek area to lend them a hand. This may also need to be clarified. I will come back in a few weeks to have the answers that have been given to you on this fundamental question through the General Inspection's investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u26	Madam Minister, thank you, but once it is not customary, I remain a little on my hunger. You've used me to systematic, accurate and complete answers. I am still hungry for some of my questions, particularly those related to risk analysis. We will have the opportunity to deepen the subject, as has just been said by Denis Ducrame. I've noticed that some mayors say that we have to allow for better control. This is also the attitude of the mayor of Saint-Josse. Other mayors say, and I confess that I agree, that in this case it would be better to ban it. All this illustrates somewhat what is called communal autonomy. That being the case, I am still wondering, and perhaps you should also ask yourself, whether you should be given a more important role. You say that you are not the guardianship authority, but perhaps that during this prolonged period of pandemic, which is likely to continue, we all know, we should ask ourselves whether you should be given a more important role in issuing an authorization to demonstrate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u27	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. To pick up on Mr Pivin's statement, I would be the type of mayor who would ban such a demonstration at the moment, but again, there is the discretionary power of local authorities. We hear talk of a peaceful and static demonstration here. That's how it was put on the market. If this is to be organized for a police commissioner, I do not think that one should be the greatest risk analyst in order to realise that such a demonstration might end less statically. That is obviously not your fault, Madam Secretary, but I think it is a huge error of assessment on the part of the mayor in question. I have two small comments to make. First of all, I'm very happy to hear the officer's doing well. We're definitely taking that with us, and I hope she'll be mentally recovering from those literal blows as well. Secondly, I am pleased to hear that the investigation into Ibrahima Barrie is being conducted correctly. Secondly, I am very much concerned with the way in which the government will finally enforce zero tolerance in Brussels. I hope that doesn't bore you too much, but that keeps me and a lot of people busy. You're saying you're gonna be a bourgeois party. That is a good start, but that will not be the sacrosanct remedy in such matters. I think we need an action plan on zero tolerance. We will support the sensible measures you would take and look forward to hearing more about them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u28	Minister, I fully understand the dimension of the secrecy of the investigation. I am also pleased to hear that steps are being taken to move towards better prevention and dialogue between the police and the population. I see that my colleague De Maegd is still present, and I will turn a little bit of an eye to him: the next time we meet, I would like him to tell me how he uses his famous app – which I have already used – to avoid traffic jams in Brussels. I used this application, as well as three or four others, and I never manage to avoid traffic jams in Brussels. As soon as I can, I'll take the train. Dear Michel, if you could explain to me how you do it, we could also tell the King. That would be nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u29	Mr President, it is actually quite simple. The trains in Brussels are the S line, as you know, Mr. Thiébaut. It works very well. The Waze app works very well for me. We can do a trial together if you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u30	That is constructive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u31	I agree with the colleagues. It's really not a good idea to put questions together. Now it seems as if the king's safety is more important than a miserable death or everything that has happened in that connection or has not happened............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The fact that a peaceful wake degenerates into riots, a false assessment or the fact that no time has been taken to make a real risk analysis, that everything is indeed of a different order and has a different weight than the problems with a VIP protection service I get a lot of reactions about that, including on the social media, and I fully understand that. In future, let us think better about the aggregation of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u32	Mrs Ingels, the services of the Chamber are doing the necessary. I do not have an immediate answer to that, but I will certainly pass on the remark. I can agree with you and other colleagues that it may be inappropriate to merge such questions into one topical debate. I will certainly raise the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u33	Minister, on the night of January 7-8, emergency telephone numbers were inaccessible or difficult to access due to a breakdown. Alternative numbers have been set up by province to compensate for this fortunately temporary failure, but such breakdowns can have dramatic consequences for citizens. This is all the more true as it appears that a similar interruption of service to the population would have already occurred in 2019. Minister, do you have an assessment of the number of emergency cases left unanswered by this breakdown? What measures do you intend to take to ensure the safety of these emergency numbers and their permanent accessibility to the population?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u34	Mr President, Minister, the problem has already been well reflected by my colleague. I will therefore go straight to my questions about the problems at BE-Alert. Has there been any clarity today as to what exactly went wrong and even more importantly how this can be avoided in the future? The BE-Alert website states that the government uses other channels when the telephone network is overloaded. However, we read on social media numerous notifications from users who have not received an e-mail to report the malfunction with the emergency services. So there is something wrong with the whole situation. Do you also believe that such situations should be tackled better? What steps have you already taken to address this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u35	I'm not going to give the introduction again, but I do have some questions. It is not the first time that a break at Proximus makes sure that the emergency services are not accessible. That's actually unbelievable. I remember two events in 2017 and 2018. At some point Proximus will also have to be held responsible. Either another system has to be found, which automatically switches to another operator in case of Proximus problems. I can't imagine how difficult this is in these times. It can no longer be possible that the emergency numbers are no longer accessible because of external factors. How many calls did we miss? That's a very difficult question. We can only know this if complaints are made. We're never really gonna know what the impact of this has been. As far as BE-Alert is concerned, it is very good that there have been warnings, but the logic seems to me to be missing. I myself received text messages about Brussels because I work there. For West Flanders, where I live, I got an e-mail. If something happens at night and the emergency services are needed, I think a text message is much more effective. One does not open an e-mail in the middle of the night. So how come there's been so different responses? According to complaints in the press, not all people who have registered for BE-Alert have received anything in any form whatsoever. Do you have an idea of the percentage of people who have not been notified, even though they were registered on BE-Alert?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u36	Minister, due to a breakdown in emergency centres, emergency numbers 100, 101 and 112 were difficult to reach for some time during the night of January 7 to Friday, January 8. To make things worse, BE-Alert's SMS system also did not work properly, so many people were not informed of the breakdown. This is confirmed by the Crisis Centre. In Antwerp, only half of those registered received a text message indicating that the emergency numbers were not reachable. In East Flanders, not even a third of the people had received a message that morning. The emergency numbers were not available due to a breakdown at Proximus. This has already happened in 2016. In the meantime, is it possible to determine the exact cause of the problem? Has anyone been wrong somewhere? Has Proximus fulfilled all its obligations? How will this be avoided in the future? Will you consult the supplier to avoid this situation in the future? Will you make new arrangements for future cooperation with this supplier? What measures have been taken since 2016 to avoid this problem? And why did the problem happen again? BE-Alert was probably overloaded due to the number of messages broadcast. Of course, this cannot be an acceptable excuse because the purpose of this service is precisely to send mass messages to all those who subscribe to it in the event of an emergency. There are criteria to consider when choosing your predecessor, Minister Jambon, to use a SMS warning rather than a mobile phone broadcast, as our northern neighbours do with NL-Alert. This system would be less likely to become obsolete. What do you think happened with BE-Alert? How are you going to avoid these problems in the future and are you going to stick to an alert service that alerts our citizens by SMS? Or are you planning to switch to more modern cellular broadcasting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a thorough debriefing on what has gone wrong is, of course, extremely important, but it is still being prepared. The incident happened a dozen days ago. We are doing this not only in consultation with the services of Deputy Prime Minister De Sutter, who is responsible for telecommunications. Proximus and the IBPT are currently conducting an in-depth analysis of the problems encountered. It therefore seems to me preferable to wait for the results of this analysis in order not to provide you with incomplete information. What I can already tell you is that the problems have apparently arisen in terms of the "voice over IP" structure. The incident last Friday is therefore not the same as the one that happened earlier. The consequences of the incident are not necessarily comparable either. The emergency power stations of the provinces of West Flanders, East Flanders, Flemish Brabant and Namur could no longer receive emergency calls via the usual number. For the plants of Antwerp, Limburg, Liège, Hainaut and Luxembourg there was only an impact for the Proximus customers who wanted to call with a fixed device. Mr Thiébaut, it is impossible, as Mrs Ingels has already said, to draw up an exact picture of the number of calls whose request for assistance has remained unanswered. Of course, the central offices have the numbers of calls that could be processed during the breakdown, either because they were passed through alternative gsm numbers issued by the National Crisis Centre, or because the citizens first contacted a fire department, a hospital or a local police service, and these services then redirected the caller to emergency centres 112 or 101. The number of citizens who went to hospital emergencies themselves, to a local police service or to a fire station is currently unknown and they have found the necessary assistance without this information passing through the central offices. Mrs Ingels, Mr Moyaers, Monsieur Boukili, it is true that an adequate alarm of a whole group of people during the night is a particular challenge. In order to inform citizens as best as possible of the measures taken, it was decided to combine different warning channels, which were assessed as most relevant to the current situation. The decision was taken to activate the BE-Alert system at the provincial level. It was also decided to disseminate the message via the website of the National Crisis Centre, the media, social networks and electronic road signs. For BE-Alert it was decided to initiate the various alarm campaigns at provincial level, because the message per province was different. As in the case of other emergencies, the governors were able to assess for themselves which technological channels were most appropriate for alerting in their specific context. I understand that this can lead to questions here and there because citizens in different provinces were warned in different ways and times. We must therefore also learn lessons from this incident and improve the follow-up to such emergencies and perhaps go towards a coordinated and centralised alert. I can say that each governor used the BE-Alert SMS channel and/or e-mail channel, resulting in approximately 1.9 million scheduled SMS messages and 987,000 e-mails; 100% of the e-mails were delivered. Maximum 82% of SMS messages were delivered correctly to contacts previously registered on the BE-Alert system. It is therefore not the case that only half of the recipients would have received the message correctly. The figures of the messages that could not be delivered are in line with what could be expected technically and are therefore normal. There was therefore no impact of the telecom panne on the delivery of the BE-Alert messages. I am referring to the technical part and not to the content of the messages. The BE-Alert system is an alert system offering the possibility of sending messages via different broadcast channels: channels based on contacts previously registered in the system, such as SMS or voice calls, localised SMS technology allowing messages to be sent to all GSM detected in a given area, without prior registration, or mass channels such as Facebook and Twitter. The decision to integrate localized SMS technology rather than cellular broadcasting was made on the basis of a multi-criteria analysis. We were able to identify advantages and disadvantages for each of these warning technologies. However, we have oriented our choice to localized SMS technology as it allows each holder of a mobile device, regardless of the performance of the device, to receive alert messages, or to send a second message to the GSM detected during the first message, even if they have left the area affected by the emergency. By choosing the BE-Alert system, we have first and foremost chosen to develop multichannel technology capable of evolving. The advantages identified for localized SMS technology seemed indispensable and adapted to our context. However, the evaluation of alternative technologies, such as cellular broadcasting and new technologies, and the value of integrating them into the BE-Alert system remain relevant. It goes without saying, therefore, that I have asked the National Crisis Centre to carry out a thorough review of the functioning of BE-Alert and other support alert options and to improve them where necessary, so that not only the centralised approach but also the content and technological channels used are better implemented. For each incident, we learn lessons and develop solutions. You will understand that I am not yet in a position to announce to you today the detailed solutions that will be brought about in relation to the January 7 incident. Once the analysis has been carried out and when we have the concrete results, we will discuss with Proximus what needs to be done and the possible solutions to avoid similar problems in the future. Dependence on a telecommunications operator is certainly not a good thing. It will therefore be discussed with the IBPT at what speed an additional telecommunications operator can be integrated into the process so that emergency calls can be routed in parallel on two different channels. Mr De Sutter has already confirmed that the negotiations will start again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u38	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u39	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very comprehensive reply. It is very good that there will be an evaluation of BE-Alert. I can talk about how the system works. Some six months ago, we experienced the same thing. In the event of a large fire with toxic substances, we also had to send a BE-Alert text message and then things went wrong. An evaluation of the whole is therefore quite appropriate here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u40	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u41	I also thank the minister for her answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u42	I would like to join my colleagues in thanking you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u43	Mr. President, Minister, the strong reactions of public opinion following the death of Ibrahima on January 13 and the police intervention in Waterloo during the end-of-year celebrations are further evidence of the depth of the widening gap between the population and our police services. For too long, we have allowed this relationship to deteriorate. There are still too many shocking cases involving violence by and against police officers. Today, it is our duty to take the necessary steps to restore what we all want: a relationship of trust between our fellow citizens and our police services. I am thinking in particular of increased investments in the use of bodycams about which I asked you last November, which will enable police interventions to be objected to. I recently learned that the Commissioner General of the Federal Police had requested that a budget be released this year for bodycams in the federal police. As you also mention in your general policy note, the path of reinvestment in a real local police force that would know citizens better needs to be thoroughly examined. Minister, what budget will be released this year for investment in bodycams for the federal police? For which areas? On November 16, you stated that a working group had reviewed the opinion of the Police Information Review Body on the use of bodycams and made proposals and comments thereon. Could you now provide us with the analysis in question? In your policy note, you provided for the establishment of an assessment of the citizen's satisfaction with the proximity of the police. What about it? Do you have the results of this evaluation? You also mentioned, on the occasion of your policy note, the fact that you intend to take initiatives to make the function of neighbourhood inspector more attractive. What initiatives have you already taken or are you planning to take in the coming weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u44	Mr President, Mrs Song, Mr De Smet, as of December 31, 2019, the local police had a total of 301 bodycams. Data for 2020 are not yet available. The Federal Police Public Security Directorate also has some bodycams of different brands and models for evaluation. The Commissioner General of the Federal Police has communicated his intention to equip federal police personnel with bodycams as soon as possible. In 2021, the federal police planned to open a public procurement procedure for the acquisition of bodycams. This procedure will equip the federal police with approximately 2,900 bodycams, with a phased acquisition from 2021 to 2024. This public procurement procedure will be accessible to police areas that would like to attach themselves to it. In police areas that already use bodycams operationally, the rules of use are as follows. Depending on the type of service performed, the bodycam is mandatory or left to the free choice of the staff member. Then, in any case, the time of activation of the bodycam is left to the discretion of the staff member. Some manufacturers offer technical solutions to automate the activation of bodycam depending on the circumstances, for example when the staff member draws his weapon. Another solution that most manufacturers offer is in the pre-registration function. This is a brief buffer memory during which the bodycam records continuously. When the staff member triggers the activation, the recording of these minutes before the activation moment is transferred to the permanent memory, thus saving gestures and words a posteriori. However, the Police Information Review Body considered that this pre-registration function does not meet the pre-warning requirement and therefore cannot be used in the current state of the legislation. As regards the training aspect of your questions, the implementation of such a tool must be accompanied by prior training. In all cases, both the legal conditions of use and the technical aspects must be very clear for users, as well as the more specific directives for the police areas concerned. This is a primary responsibility of the police zone authorities who intend to use this tool. In this context, they can turn to the licensed provincial police school coming out of their territory. Specific training for the use of bodycams has thus been set up at the provincial police school in Namur, Liège, Flemish Brabant and Limburg. As regards the assessment of the citizen's satisfaction with the proximity of the police, it will be carried out through the next Security Monitor. This is a national survey of the population on various security and prevention topics. This survey asks citizens about their feelings of insecurity, their neighbourhood problems, prevention, victimization or the quality of police services' actions. The future Security Monitor, which will be the tenth edition of this national survey, is currently in preparation. We can hope for the first results in early 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u45	Minister, thank you for answering all my questions. However, I am still hungry about the rules in force in relation to when the police can and must trigger their bodycam in the legislation as it exists. I will read your answer and the legislation carefully and will not fail to come back to you for further explanations if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u46	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response and your extremely clear commitment to bodycams. This is, I think, part of the answer to what we are seeing, namely that more and more citizens are running with their phones the interventions and eventually triggering storms of all kinds on social networks. The bodycam will make it possible to objectify both for the benefit of citizens and the police. We do not have 36 solutions to try to build more trust between police and citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u47	Mr President, Madam Minister, I have recently done the exercise of browsing the various sites of the police areas in order to find various information such as the names of the corps chiefs and the presidents of the zones. I realized that, on the one hand, some areas do not have a website and, on the other hand, that when they have it, the information is not always up to date or that some useful information, such as the name of the zone president or the corps chief, is not mentioned. I wonder in terms of transparency for our citizens, because I believe that this information should be clearly included on the police zone website. I would also like to refer to an intervention I made to your predecessor with regard to the minutes of the police council. These are on-line for some areas, while there is absolutely no reference to them for others. Minister, what do you think about this lack of information, this lack of communication, outdated or non-existent dissemination? Could you make arrangements on this subject, so that the citizen can easily access simple but essential information through the police zone website to maintain contact between our areas, the heads of bodies, the presidents of zones, and our fellow citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u48	Mrs Song, I have of course nothing against the publication of this information, either the names of the presidents of police zones as well as the names or data of the chiefs of corps of the different police zones, but there is not really a rule explicitly obliging the websites of the police zones to indicate the names of their chiefs of corps or zone presidents. However, this information is public and there is no objection to its publication. This information is public because it is available in the minutes of the police council meetings published on the area's websites. If they're not published, we can always ask for them. Appointments and data are also included in the Belgian Monitor when appointing to a term of office, but I know that not everyone reads the Monitor on a daily basis. But it's not secret. A contact address is systematically planned, in my opinion, on the sites. It is not intended that it is the corps chief who manages the website of the area itself, but it could be suggested to the Integrated Police Coordination Committee. This could help ensure that police areas that are not up-to-date are in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u49	Madam Minister, I believe that it is information that deserves to be disseminated because it is important to the citizens. I'm referring to neighborhood agents. I realized that in my own commune, it is very complicated to know who is the agent of a neighbourhood or village because the information is not disseminated, whether on the social media pages of my police zone or on the website of my police zone. I think there should be an awareness-raising campaign, if you have the opportunity, directed to our different areas, to use the digital tools at their disposal in order to disseminate useful and important information for our citizens. These are ultimately essential information. I thank you, in any case, for your good cooperation and your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u50	The democratic renewal component of the government agreement refers to the establishment of deliberative committees at federal level, which is a very good thing. There are already mechanisms similar to other levels of power – regional, community and communal. In order to make up the commissions, it is necessary to draw lots of citizens who are registered in the National Register. However, it is my responsibility that at present, for the entities that I will call "pioneers", this phase is made difficult for at least two reasons: it currently takes four months between the initial application and the receipt of the sample by the entity concerned. The delay seems to be too long. Second, each entry costs 25 cents. When the draw concerns several thousand people and/or you want to make several draws a year, the cost can rise quickly. Minister, why is the deadline so long? Is it planned to speed up the processing of these requests? How is the cost of each entry determined? Is it possible to reduce or even remove this brake? In general, how can the federal government support these initiatives of other entities and facilitate their proper functioning?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u51	Mr. Defossé, the processing time for requests for access to the National Register or their communication varies between three and six months. This time limit does not appear excessive in view of the complexity of the procedure. Any request for access to the National Register implies the processing of personal data and therefore requires a thorough examination of the dossier, both in terms of the legitimacy of the application and in terms of the purposes pursued, as well as the proportionate nature of the access. It is not only necessary to verify compliance with the requirements of the 1983 Organic Law on the National Register, but also with the provisions guaranteeing respect for privacy and the protection of personal data – including the GDPR. In addition, very regularly, the processing of an application for an access permit requires additional information from applicants. It adds the time needed to draft the decision itself, as well as its translation into the other two national languages. It is always possible to request an emergency authorization from my treatment services. However, it must be reasoned and sufficiently justified. These benefits are invoiced in accordance with the provisions of the Royal Decree of 3 July 2020 relating to the remuneration to which the benefits of the National Register of Natural Persons give rise. These tariffs have recently been modified to decrease, including for the application of data for the extraction of data for sampling purposes. They correspond to the cost price of services provided by the services of the National Register and can be consulted on the website of the Directorate-General for Institutions and Population. As to how my administration can support citizen participation initiatives, it is clear that, in this context, the National Register appears to be an eminent source of data, for example, to make random samples of citizens and, where appropriate, to consult the data on them. Each body wishing to obtain an access permit is invited to submit its duly substantiated application to the National Register. The latter shall process each of its applications in such a way that the applicants' requests can be met, in accordance with the legal framework within which the application is made. I refer you, for example, to my decision of 16 November 2020 which authorises, for the Brussels-Capital Region Parliament, the Brussels Francophone Parliament and the Assembly meeting of the Joint Community Commission, the drawing up of samples in the context of the process of citizen participation in deliberative committees and, in the head of those same authorities, access to the data of the National Register with a view to verifying the conditions for introducing a citizen suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u52	Minister, thank you for these answers. I hear the justification for the delay, particularly in relation to the time taken to validate the application. In the context of requests made by public authorities on something very specific such as deliberative commissions, a way might need to be found to speed things up. This should be almost automatic when the request comes from a public authority. You are also teaching me the cost reduction, and I welcome it. I hope we can continue in this direction. It is really important for the federal government to be encouraging in supporting these methods of participatory democracy, especially since this may be a good way to observe the operation of these initiatives and to draw the useful conclusions for the time being, which I hope will be as close as possible, where we can put this mechanism in place in the House ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u53	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of this month, on 6 January, there was an exchange of views between the Vice-Governor of Brussels-Capital and a number of Members of the joint meeting of the committees of the Flemish Parliament and the Council of the VGC on the governor's annual report on the application of language legislation by the Brussels local authorities. You can check with your predecessors: almost every year, when that report is published, I interperate with the relevant Minister for the Interior, because this year after year is an ever worse report. Six months ago, I did that on the last report. Also during the exchange of views this month, it became clear once again that language legislation in Brussels is being violated massively by local authorities. The time frame does not allow us to repeat all the dramatic figures here. However, I would like to point out that around 80% of the recruitments in 2019 were not in accordance with the language law. There is also a complete error in the distribution of relations between language groups. We have known the causes of this for years. That is mainly the manifest unwillingness of those local authorities to comply with the law. The Brussels custody authorities refuse to effectively destroy the appointments suspended by the Deputy Governor. In other words, there is no stick behind the door to bring the refuse to better thoughts. In other words, that stick is there, but it is totally illegal. In the meantime, the Council of State has already confirmed in several judgments that the power of the Brussels custody authorities to destroy illegal and suspended appointments is not optional: they are actually obliged to do so. That is a mandatory requirement, the unlawful appointments must be destroyed. Nevertheless, they still consistently refuse to do so. However, the language law is a law of public order; therefore I turn to you. When it is found that the rules of law are not being complied with on a massive scale, it is, of course, the duty of the competent authorities to intervene in this area. The government responsible for the language law in Brussels is the federal government. That's you, Madam Secretary of State. For example, you could take an initiative to set up this particular administrative supervision rather than the failing supervision of the Brussels custody authorities that we know today. Will you take initiatives to restore the democratic rule of law in this area? Do you intend to do something about that? If so, what timing can we expect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u54	Mrs Goethals, you have an added question, but we cannot hear you. Madam Minister, I give you the floor for your answer, perhaps Mrs Goethals can still take the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u55	Mrs Pas, the 2019 report is indeed, unfortunately, in line with the previous annual reports. A majority of the staff decisions of the Brussels Municipal and OCMW Boards do not respect the administrative language legislation, mainly as regards the possession of Selor's legally required language licence and in a number of cases also as regards the joint implementation of the management functions required by the law by staff of both language groups. Consequently, in 2019 1,829 of those decisions, i.e. almost 60%, were suspended by the Deputy Governor. The issue is not new and was the subject of a hearing in the Committee on Home Affairs with the provincial governor on 19 February 2019 following a bill by Mr.Hendrik Vuye and Mrs.Veerle Wouters. It is clear that the Brussels municipal and OCMW authorities must respect the administrative language law, which is of public policy. On 16 December 2019, at the request of Minister De Crem, the Chairman of the Permanent Commission for Language Monitoring sent a letter to the Brussels municipalities to remind them of this. This has also been reported to the Committee on the Interior in the summer of last year. Moreover, the close monitoring and the reasoned suspension decisions of the vice-governor almost constitute a permanent reminder to the municipal and OCMW authorities of these legal obligations. As Minister for the Interior, I am responsible for administrative language legislation in relation to legislation and implementing decisions. The power to monitor compliance by the Brussels Municipal and OCMW Boards lies with the Brussels Capital Government for the municipal authorities and with the United College of the Joint Community Commission for the OCMW Boards. This has been the case for years and is explicitly mentioned in the Deputy Governor's annual report. A question on the exercise of that competence by the Brussels Capital Government and the United College of the Joint Community Commission should therefore be put to the relevant ministers. Mrs Goethals, I've read your questions without hearing them here. I understand that the vice-governor's conclusion is that the situation regarding compliance with the administrative language laws in Brussels local authorities remains a major concern. I just confirmed that, too. I have not yet had the opportunity to discuss this personally with the vice-governor, but of course my cabinet also maintains contact with him. With regard to possible further initiatives, to which Mrs Paspa asked, I believe that we must continue to follow the issue and insist that the language obligations, which are of public order, are respected. I will assess whether we need to tighten up or amend the letter of conversion or whether we need to take other initiatives, such as the invitation of the vice-governor to a committee here. Of course, we cannot let that kind of fact go by and leave it untouched. I will certainly follow up on the matter further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u56	Madam Minister, you say that the recent report by the Vice-Governor is in line with the previous reports. Unfortunately, over the past few years, we have only seen a downward trend and even the absolute low point has been reached as regards the imitation of language legislation in the appointment of OCMWs. I'm a little disappointed in your answer. We've already invited the vice governor here. During that hearing, he said that "a well-functioning oversight and effective sanctioning of infringements is an essential part of the Staff Language Act." However, that is completely lacking today. It is true that your predecessor, Mr De Crem, wrote a letter on my behalf, after an interplay on those poor results. At the time, Mr De Crem did not mention that he could not do more than send that letter because the government was in current affairs. He was therefore not authorised to take other initiatives. You are, however. Just a repeat of that letter, I find as a solution a few skinny ones. Other initiatives need to be taken quickly. You can place the power of destruction with the vice-governor himself. I have already tabled a legislative proposal for this, and I have also received a positive opinion from your predecessor. Unfortunately, that was then voted away in the Chamber. I therefore hope that you will take an initiative in this respect, otherwise, after decades of manifest unwillingness, little will change in the Brussels administration. I will continue to follow the matter as closely as you do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u57	We get the impression that language legislation is a phantom power of the federal government. In any case, it is not respected by the Brussels authorities. If the French-speaking Brussels people ignore language legislation, can Flemings do so in the facilities municipalities? Here we get the impression that Dutch-speaking Brusselsers are discriminated against. The N-VA will not allow this and will continue to work for bilingualism in the Brussels municipalities and OCMWs. We all know that the federal government finances the language premiums in the Brussels-Capital Region. So she is directly involved and may feel responsible for the decline. Our party is in favour of extending the deputy governor's power of suspension to the power to destroy illegal recruitment. In this way, the structural infringements of language legislation by the Brussels municipalities and OCMWs will not last long, as is currently the case in 100% of cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u58	Mr President, Minister, I was a little shocked when I read in the media that you would intend to use French-speaking agents at Zaventem airport, because of the shortage of Dutch-speaking agents there. If the coverage is correct, a French-speaking section of the Brussels national aviation police would be set up or that service would be made bilingual. To put it mildly, I do not think that is a good idea either politically or legally. I find it legally unacceptable, given Article 4 of the Constitution, that Belgium divides into four language areas and in view of the language law in administrative matters. I have just interviewed you about the problem of writing out French-language procedural documents to residents of the Dutch language area. The answer to the problem of a shortage of Dutch-speaking agents is not to use French-speaking people in the Dutch language area, but rather to keep intensive recruitment campaigns with the Flemings and, if necessary, to make the statute more attractive, so that hopefully more candidates apply. Madam Secretary, is it true that you are considering setting up a French-speaking department or making that police area bilingual? If so, what is the state of play and what are the prospects? I think it is a great step backwards politically and not appropriate, but I would also like to know from you as a lawyer on what legal grounds that will be achieved. In doing so, it is perhaps important to know whether Zaventem's aviation police are regarded as a local or a central service. How do you reconcile this initiative with Article 4 of the Constitution and with the language law in administrative matters? Have you obtained the opinion of the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring on this subject? If so, can it be delivered to us? Can you tell me what was in it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u59	Madam Minister, we also heard that there would be an agreement to set up a French-speaking police unit at Zaventem airport, including a framework of French-speaking officers. However, the airport of Zaventem is, as you know, an integral part of a monolingual Flemish municipality and is the largest employer in the Rand. The recruitment should really focus on Dutch speakers who can speak to citizens both in Dutch and in other languages. The airport police in the Flemish Rand would not want to be beaten up. While the Rand is apparently good enough for the flight routes and the associated nuisances, he should not compete for the benefits of the recruitments. That catapults us 20 years back in time. As with your predecessor, we will not allow this to happen. It is a matter of principle for us. Since 1995, the unitary province of Brabant has been split, B-H-V has been split, the judicial arrondissement has been split and a private parquet Halle-Vilvoorde has been established. In this respect, it is illogical and unthinkable to make the largest police unit in Flemish Brabant bilingual. In the field there are fears of many practical problems and they are found to be unachievable. Madam Minister, we would therefore like to clarify the matter by answering the following questions. When did the talks start to establish a French speaking unit? What stage are these conversations at? Is there any agreement? Are there effective permanent and structural staff shortages, knowing that less is being flown today? How many recruitments are we talking about? Under what language framework do recruitments take place? What statute are we talking about? My last, but not insignificant question is this: will you always intend to counter such a decline in bilingualism and to refuse to accept that the paintwork of Zaventem airport would take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u60	Mrs Pas, Mrs Goethals, I am happy to answer questions here in committee, even if there are 80 questions for one meeting and 30 further questions are tabled the day before the committee meeting. What I will not accept, however, is that you put words or decisions in my mouth that I have not spoken or made. I am very upset that you are at the root of sending fake news into the world. I specifically name it that way. After all, I refer to the press release that the Flemish Interest has sent out and the title is: 'Death wants to rattle the largest police unit of Flemish Brabant'. In the N-VA it is similar: "Minister for the Interior, Annelies Verlinden, approved this." If you ask me a question before making such statements in the media that are not based on anything, it would be a credit to you and it would also enhance the functioning of Parliament. I strongly oppose this and I assume that you will withdraw those words because they have never been spoken and I have not taken any decision on the matter. If you would like to ask me a question, there are many possibilities for that. We do not do this through the media and not in that way, by issuing decisions that I have not made. Of course, I am aware of the capacity problems. Moreover, they gave rise to a strike commitment in February 2020. My predecessor then reached agreement with the trade unions on additional staff, additional resources and talks with the Brussels Airport Company about the airport police housing. It was also agreed to follow these points in a negotiating committee. It is during one of those negotiations in the spring of 2020, when I was far from a minister and did not even dream of a role as minister, that one of the trade unions brought forward the deployment of French-speaking policemen. The option was clearly not taken into account at the time. However, it was agreed to examine them further, both technically and legally. It has always been pointed out that there was still a political position to be taken in this area. It was chosen for the deployment of aspirants, for internal shifts within the unit, for the reinforcement by police officers who used to work at the airport and for the punctual deployment of the federal reserve. As agreed, the issue was again addressed in the negotiating committee of 25 November 2020. There was a feedback from the federal police about the possible use of French speakers. As the file was not sufficiently substantiated, the Chairman of the Negotiating Committee did not go into it further. It was stated explicitly, which is also stated in the draft minutes of the sitting, that there had not yet been a political test. I am therefore completely puzzled by what you have achieved in order to make that decision in my mouth. There have been discussions with the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring, but no formal advice has yet been given, no more than there would be a uniform legal advice. There has not been a technical decision at any time, let alone a political decision to that effect. It goes without saying that these decisions would have been submitted to me in the first place. I am therefore very surprised at the way in which you want to feed this problem and simply send unfounded messages to the world, without having bothered to ask me what decisions have already been taken. I have repeatedly said that we are working on this recruitment, Mrs. Pas. We also carry out intensive recruitment campaigns for this purpose. Of course, we are also working to increase the attractiveness of the police officer's status, but also the attractiveness of the airport police. To this end, I have made a work visit to identify and work on the needs for myself. I do not belong to either of you any precise solutions or actions that we could or should take to suddenly supplement that recruitment reserve for the airport police. I would therefore urge you to withdraw and correct those messages that you have sent as fake news, and to await this committee, instead of screaming murder and fire in the media on the basis of incomplete information. As you know, I am always prepared to provide further explanations. I am doing my utmost to answer the many questions that we are being asked in a timely and quick manner and to explain them orally in this committee. However, I will not accept that this kind of debate is being conducted through the press in this unsubstantiated and incorrect manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u61	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. As far as the so-called fake news is concerned, you should not shoot the political parties, but you should shoot the press that issued it. I read the message in the newspaper and my first question to you was whether that message was correct. The fake news was distributed by mainstream media and it's my job to ask you if that's true. I understand today that neither a political decision nor a technical decision has been taken. However, I am not entirely reassured, because apparently this piste is being investigated here and there. As far as the technical decision is concerned, I would like some clarification on that, except that this is absolutely not politically appropriate. I would have preferred to have heard from you today that it is politically unacceptable and that we are seeking other solutions to recruit Dutch-speaking agents, but that this is a keg from which we do not tap. That would have been a much clearer answer. Legally, I'd like to know if it's a local or a central service. If it is a local service, which I suspect, as the scope extends across Zaventem airport and no more than that, then it is not at all for you to issue language legislation. Then it is the Flemish Community that is competent to do so on the basis of Article 129 of the Constitution. If it is a central service, then you are competent, but also then there is the language law in administrative matters, Article 41, and it is anything but an evidentiary to use French-speaking agents. I would have liked to have heard clearly from you that you are not and never will be, than claims about fake news coming from mainstream media.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u62	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I'm actually glad you were a little agitated, if you don't mind my saying so. I hope that there will be no effective use of French-speaking agents and that we can take your word for it if you say that you are going to do everything you can to keep that Dutch-speaking police unit going. Where there is smoke, there is usually fire, and here there was smoke in the media. Your cabinet was contacted several times by the media, but they refused to reply. Unfortunately, therefore, we were not able to get any answers either. I am glad that there is no agreement and I hope that it will never come. I do wonder whether, if this problem ever arose at Charleroi airport, it would be an option to set up a Dutch-speaking police unit there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u63	Mr President, in order to assist the Minister, I have sent a motion to the services which are certainly not intended to use French-speaking agents in a structural way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u64	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Minister for the Interior, - having regard to Article 4 of the Constitution on the classification of the country into linguistic areas, - having regard to Article 129 (1) of the Constitution concerning the power to regulate the language used in administrative matters, - having regard to the language law in administrative matters, - whereas it is unacceptable to set up bilingual or French-speaking services in the Dutch language area or to allow French-speaking agents to perform their duties; asks the government - not to use French-speaking police officers in the Dutch language area; - without prejudice to the Dutch-language nature of the Brussels National Airport Police; - take measures to resolve the shortage of police forces in the Dutch language area through targeted recruitment campaigns in Flanders and, where appropriate, by making the status more attractive." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Minister of the Interior, - having regard to article 4 of the Constitution relating to the division of the country into linguistic regions; - having regard to Article 129(1) of the Constitution on the competence to regulate the use of languages in administrative matters; - having regard to the Law on the Use of Languages in Administrative Matters; - Whereas it is unacceptable to create bilingual or Francophone services in the Dutch-language region in order to enable French-speaking agents to provide their services there; asks the government - not to deploy French-speaking police officers in the Dutch-speaking region; - do not prejudice the Dutch-speaking nature of the Brussels-National airport police; - to take measures to resolve the problem of police shortages in the Dutch-speaking region by using targeted recruitment campaigns in Flanders and, if appropriate, by making the status more attractive." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Franky Demon. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Franky Demon. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u65	Mr President, Madam Minister, my question is very specific. Recently, I was contacted by a young girl from the region of Liège, aspiring to become a police inspector. During the screening tests at the police school in Seraing, she fell quite heavily and suffered multiple fractures which resulted in heavy medical costs and incapacity for work for several months as well, unfortunately, as life-long sequelae. When she inquired about the school's insurance coverage, she was told that no intervention was planned and that she had signed a discharge that relieved the school of all responsibility. I have to tell you that this situation has caught up with me and I would like to ask you a few questions. Minister, do you confirm that there is currently no insurance coverage for accidents in the selection tests? Should we not reconsider the situation and consider that police schools take out insurance to cover this kind of terrible bodily harm? If not, would it not be possible, at a minimum, to inform the candidates and propose to the applicants a one-day insurance policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u66	Mr Rigot, there is no specific coverage, either in accident at work or in the form of insurance, for candidates for the conduct of these selection tests. In the event of negligence in the supervision of the tests or defective equipment, however, the civil liability of the Federal Police will be incurred. I would point out that, according to information gathered by my services, and in particular on the basis of an analysis by the prevention adviser, no such deficiencies were found in the present case. The candidates shall, however, be informed of the selection of the framework within which these tests are organised. The selection rules applicable to police inspectors specifically provide that, in the physical part of the selection, each candidate carries out the functional journey under his or her own responsibility. This information is also included on the jobpol.be website in the "Selection" section. This young woman, like the other candidates, has come to know and signed a document relating to the current general state of health. The purpose of this document is to draw the attention of the participants to the functional path to the importance of being healthy and in good physical condition in order to participate in the functional path. It also reiterates that candidates take part in the examination under their own responsibility. This document is submitted to the candidates at the time of the invitation to the physical test to have the opportunity to subscribe to a one-day insurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I have no doubt that the information is present. This will not change the dramatic situation of this young girl who has seen her dream broken and who today must bear the dramatic consequences, on the one hand, because she will never be a police inspector and will never be able to satisfy her vocation of serving the nation and, on the other hand, because she will have to bear fairly heavy financial consequences for life. If this does not change anything for her, it seems to me that we have to reconsider the thing in the future and certainly a minima with proactive information: not just indirectly indicate to the candidate via a website or form the rules of the game, but also remind them because it is true that they are important. I also believe that, when we seek to strengthen our law enforcement forces by adding the best elements to them, we must also ensure that they are protected from the start. Therefore, it is not a luxury to have them take out this insurance on the spot, or even to take care of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u68	Madam Minister, since January 4, a common front has laid notice of a strike, as you know. Why? Because for too long, the Federal Police Service of Liège, and especially the DAB, have been waiting for concrete answers on the ground to offer its staff decent premises and working conditions. Like Don Quixote, we feel like we're fighting windmills. I have the same feeling, because for a year and a half since I have been in Parliament, I have been asking questions about the state of play of the Masterplan of Vottem and about the places that can host the DAB tomorrow. I am held between your colleague, Mr Michel, in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, and your colleague, Mrs De Bleeker, because the Finance Inspectorate has still not validated the Phase 2 file. It's good to go left and right, I'm quite motivated, but I don't have an answer. Today, I am told that Phase 1 is being received, that Phase 2 is now being carried out by the Finance Inspector and that the implementation of Phase 2 of Vottem, which will bring together the entire Federal Police, now depends on a decision by the Council of Ministers whether or not to make it a priority. Madam Minister, can you confirm to me that this is indeed a priority that you will put on the agenda of the Council of Ministers to allow the procedure to move forward? Can you also confirm to me that, in this phase 2, there will be the necessary premises for the DAB and that it will be able to establish its neighbourhoods there? If so, according to which calendar? There are 140 men and women waiting. These people are now in more than precarious conditions in more than outdated premises. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u69	Mr President, I would like to add my colleague Rigot's comments and questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u70	First of all, Mr Rigot, I confirm to you that phase 2 of the Vottem project clearly includes the premises intended to structurally accommodate the DAB in the future. The initiative to present the dossier relating to phase 2 of the project is the responsibility of my colleague Mr Mathieu Michel as Secretary of State in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. Of course, I fully support this initiative in accordance with what I referred to in my policy statement as part of the Federal Police Masterplan Infrastructure. This initiative will provide concrete opportunities for a significantly modernised infrastructure for many entities of the Federal Police in Liège. With regard to the temporality of the provision of these premises, it is now appropriate to be cautious. Subject to any pending decisions and to the realities of carrying out such large-scale construction projects, it is expected that the delivery of Phase 2 will take place in 2027-2028. It will naturally be up to the Régie des Bâtiments, under the auspices of the Secretary of State in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, to decide on the ever-present nature of this temporality. It is therefore a matter that I will be following closely, in collaboration with Mr Mathieu Michel, for his promotion to the Council of Ministers. With regard to the Liège ATM, a proposal for an approach allowing a phased solution within a reasonable period of time was submitted to the social partners within the framework of the negotiating committee, in order to give the staff of the Liège ATM concrete prospects for adequate accommodation. It was agreed that an inventory would be prepared on that day. The social partners can find themselves in this very short-term opinion if guarantees are provided in terms of deadlines in particular. The relocation of the entities involved in phase 1 of the Vottem project should be carried out in phases. For the laboratory, the objective will be to allow the occupancy of the premises in the first quarter of 2021, provided that all guarantees of compliance of the premises are provided. For the CIC, the objective will be an occupation in the first half of 2021, always subject to a guarantee of compliance of the premises.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u71	Minister, I confess that I am not absolutely satisfied with your answer for a number of reasons. First of all, you indicate that Mr. Michel is in charge of the case. In his written reply to me, however, he pointed out that it was also up to you to defend this matter in the Council of Ministers, because that was where the budgetary priorities had to be decided in the coming months. I expect you and your colleagues to make it a priority. I don't want to know who's in charge of the case, but I expect you – like the 1,400 federal police officers and the 140 members of the DAB – to make a commitment to act. Of course, 2027 is still far away, but this year will only become a reality if this issue is activated now. Then, for the DAB, Saint-Gilles must become the site that meets the needs of the service and must therefore adapt to it. This issue must become a priority right now. We have motivated men and women, and they will not remain so if we ask them to protect our society, to be at our service morning, noon and evening, while working with candlesticks in disrespectful conditions of duty that they perform every day. I will come back to you, because I really expect this to be a decision of the Council of Ministers. I also addressed questions to Secretary of State Michel and the Secretary of State for the Budget. In the next few days, I will synthesize their answers and yours and see who is determined to move the matter forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u72	Minister, like my colleague, I am not satisfied with your response, which I find incomplete in the light of my expectations. I hope you will make this a priority. Like my colleague, I also hope that you will bring it to the Council of Ministers and insist on it becoming a priority in this Parliament. You mentioned 2027. It's far away! If we want 2027 to become a reality, we must take up this matter. I have also put questions to Secretary of State Michel and I hope that, like you, he will be able to defend him as a matter of priority. For me, all these people have the right to work in good conditions and to get answers. They have been waiting for them for too long. Our role is also to be able to provide them with firm, definitive and precise answers. We can't turn the ball back, as we've been doing since I sat as a Member of Parliament and questioned you and your predecessors. In advance, I would like to thank you for taking this matter up as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u73	Mr. Thiébaut, no Royal Decree within the meaning of section 33sepies of the Police Function Act has yet been adopted. Nor is such a royal decree being drafted. I would like to make it clear that this Royal Decree will not lay down any new rights, but the rules governing the charging of costs and the practical organization of the right to medical assistance, to meals, to a sufficient quantity of drinking water and to the use of adequate sanitary facilities. The absence of the Royal Decree does not prevent the persons concerned from benefiting on a daily basis and in any case from benefiting from these various rights. As for the charging of meal expenses, for example, it is still regulated by the circular of 3 January 2003 on the refueling of persons under arrest, with the exception of those who are the subject of a prison nut. The failure to implement article 33sepies does not, therefore, in itself give rise to any concrete problem with regard to the effective granting of these rights to any person deprived of liberty. Nor am I aware of any specific complaints in this regard or of any reply sent to the Committee on the Prevention of Torture. With regard to the federal police, a book on standards and recommendations for the development of the police cell complex has been prepared. It naturally complies with the provisions of the Royal Decree of 2007 but also includes complementary proposals for non-binding but oriented towards optimal functional adequacy in view of the return of experience on the ground in particular. In addition, the federal police are conducting an audit of all cells and cell complexes across the country to update the compliance plan that will allow for an upgrade to the provisions of the Royal Decree by 2027. Costs are currently difficult to establish, since the arrangements to be made at each facility may be limited or even complete. Compliance requests will soon be sent to the Régie des Bâtiments, which will be responsible for estimating the cost of the work to be carried out. To date, therefore, no budget has been earmarked for this purpose except naturally for projects already under development and at an advanced stage. As far as transitional measures are concerned, I do not currently have a precise cadastre containing the status of the various cases under way within each police zone. In addition, I would like to point out that each head of corps is responsible for the internal organisation of his police force. So everyone is doing their best to meet expectations while waiting for the infrastructure adaptations provided for in the regulations. The royal decree to which you refer has not yet been published but has already been the subject of a thorough process for its publication. This topic is the subject of a working group composed of several members of the integrated police and a draft royal decree already exists. Given the different approaches that exist and that have existed in this field at local and supra-local levels, it was not obvious to find a common denominator satisfying the parties concerned. In addition, the technical feasibility of the project under development is being studied. As soon as this work is completed, it will be possible to finalize the project to proceed to the publication procedure. I can't give you a concrete date yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u74	Minister, thank you for these very technical answers to very technical questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u75	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 55012332C by Mr Vandenput on blue lights for agents on a bicycle in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u76	Mr President, I asked for that question to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u77	I have not been told, but I have been told.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u78	Minister, last December, you were able to reassure the police areas that the Road Safety Fund revenues were included in their 2021 budget. However, we must note the downward trend of this fund, to the point that some heads of bodies are concerned about rumours of the pure and simple extinction of this fund in the medium term. However, in budgetary matters, it is never good to let such rumours spread. Considering the importance of this fund for the finances of local areas, can you reassure us of the sustainability of this part of their funding and explain to us the reflections on its future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u79	Mr Thiébaut, originally, the Road Safety Fund was set up to encourage police areas to draw up an action plan on this issue and to participate actively in the overall effort to reduce the number of deaths and serious injuries on our roads. Since 2004, the amount of federal road safety revenue allocated to police services has almost quadrupled from €61,686,640.98 to €224,486,135.57 in 2019, and €203,388,184.52 in 2020. Over time, this amount has become an essential source of funding for certain police areas, up to 15% of their federal funding. While the trend in federal road safety revenues and their allocations to police areas is clearly not declining, it is undeniable that this type of funding is neither constant nor sustainable, as it depends on the finding of traffic offences. Indeed, the attacks in 2016 and the pandemic in 2020 were two major events that forced law enforcement forces to review their priorities, resulting in a decrease in the finding of traffic offences and, consequently, a decrease in federal road safety revenues. It is therefore necessary to sustain the financing of the police zones. That is why I decided to include the Road Safety Fund in the consideration of the revision of the financing of the local police areas. In conclusion, we can reassure the heads of corps: if it is my intention to review the distribution of federal road safety revenues, it is with the aim of integrating it into the funding mechanism for police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u80	Madam Minister, thank you for your explanations, which, I must admit, only half reassure me. I will therefore keep an eye on the development of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u81	Minister, as we all know, the demands on local police are increasing in terms of the quality of services to citizens, especially in this difficult health period. This is a fact which, unfortunately, we have had many times the opportunity to debate in this committee. On the ground, it is my responsibility that, in parallel with the inflation of the workload for the local areas, the transverse supports have not been intensified. Minister, in concrete terms, what is specifically planned in this co-empt period for the support missions of the Strategy and Support Directorate? Have any specific directives been issued with regard to increased availability for the benefit of local areas? If so, can they be the subject of a communication to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u82	Mr Thiébaut, the Federal Police Reserve consists of a centralized unit and another, decentralized in the form of an intervention force. It is responsible for two priority tasks: first, the negotiated management of public space and, second, the support of the federal police's own munitions. The first includes specialized missions such as sprinklers and cavalry, and non-specialized ones such as order services and formed units. The support provided by this intervention reserve is conditional on the fact that a police area does not have certain specialized means or that its own capacity is inadequate. In addition, Ministerial Circular MFO2 unequivocally states that the capacity of the federal police reserve must be used optimally to minimize the use of the hypothetical capacity of the local police. This explains, for example, that the Federal Reserve is engaged in managing Brexit-related consequences. In addition, the DAS provides a permanent response capability to provide immediate support in unexpected events or incidents. The specific tasks of the federal police for which the reserve is engaged include escorting vaccines and PLF forms. In addition, support from the Federal Reserve may be sought by local police areas in the context of compliance with health measures. Every day, several teams are engaged in the various provinces and police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u83	Madam Minister, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u84	Madam Minister, at the end of 2020, we read in a newspaper article that according to the trade unions, the difference in chances of success for Dutch speakers and French speakers to start police training was due to the different quoting on the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking sides of the psychological test, which is part of the admission test. Can you confirm that? If so, are there any ways to harmonise quoting? Do the candidates have the same profile and background? Should they follow the same recruitment procedure in order to participate in the tests? How's the procedure going? Is there anything that can be done about the differences?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u85	Mrs Ingels, each year a breakdown is laid down for the laureates who started the training. This distribution is currently 54 % Dutch and 46 % French speaking aspirants. Unfortunately, we usually find that there are fewer Dutch-speaking candidates. This is one of the explanations for the difference in the number of Dutch-speaking and French-speaking candidates during the selection course. The profile of the Dutch-speaking candidates may be another cause of the difference in number of aspirants. The main reason for success in the selection remains the higher qualification of candidates, especially in terms of language and personality. We find that the higher the degree, the greater the chances of success. This may also have been part of the current statistics. Psychologists are taking the psychological tests. That seems logical to me, by the way. The recruitment and selection are divided into two different services according to the language system of the psychologists. Persons taking the tests must have a bachelor's or master's degree in psychology, but experience in advance is not required. The selection tests used are scientific instruments and are used only to obtain recruitment criteria. The methods used by psychologists serve only for this purpose. The evaluators must be respectful, standardised and impartial and non-discriminatory. That too seems obvious to me. I trust that the selection tests will be carried out professionally and I have not received any evidence to date that this would not be the case. The differences identified in the Recruitment and Selection Service are closely monitored with the aim of harmonising the two language systems in order to provide the best guarantee of validity and reliability, with standardisation of evaluations. In this way, we can fill in the frameworks that we have just discussed. So I have found some causes, but of course we will continue to look at them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic345x.u86	Debates of the European Parliament 55012435C by Mrs Jadin and 55012694C by Mrs Chanson are converted into written questions. The remaining questions can no longer be dealt with because of lack of time and will be discussed at a forthcoming meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, you always have the opportunity to translate your questions into written questions.
