ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u2	Before we resume our work, I would like to express our solidarity with all those affected by the devastating floods that affect several provinces of our country. The images of torrents of water that invade the streets of cities and villages show all the violence and gravity of the situation. Caution should be exercised. I call on everyone to remain very careful. I would also like, on behalf of all of us, to express our support and gratitude to the various services, governments and volunteers who are doing everything possible to help the affected people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u3	The next item is the debate on the draft law on temporary support measures following the Covid-19 pandemic, No. 2070. The rapporteurs are Mr Anseuw and Mr Piedboeuf and Mrs De Block and Mrs Lanjri.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u4	Before we can start discussing this draft law, it is important that all the relevant ministers are present, in accordance with the agreements made not so long ago between the government and Parliament. In view of the content which was changed and supplemented yesterday in committee at 11 o'clock, there are many competent ministers. Yesterday, by means of amendments, two draft laws were inserted into this draft law which had nothing to do with the original subject. It is really important for the relevant ministers to be present, given the Rules of Procedure and the fact that this has been discussed several times in the Conference of Presidents and the recent agreements on this matter. I note that several competent ministers are not here. Both Mr Vandenbroucke and Mr Dermagne must also be present at the discussion. It was only agreed two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u5	Madam Chair, Minister Dermagne intended to be present. He lives in Rochefort! His village is totally devastated. I remind you that there are already dead people in Wallonia. In the face of the situation, a deputy prime minister, a mayor, had to be with his citizens. I hope you can understand that. Minister Clarinval and I are here to ensure that politics is next to its citizens because it is sinistrosis in Wallonia. I hope to have your understanding, whether it comes from the majority or the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u6	Madam President, I would add that Mr Vandenbroucke is answering questions in committee. He'll join us when the commission is over. We agreed he'd go to committee this morning. As far as Minister Dermagne, Mrs Lalieux and I are concerned, we represent him.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u7	Madam President, Mrs Lalieux, of course I have great sympathy for the suffering that affects people, including in the region of Minister Dermagne. However, it is important that Minister Dermagne be present. Not only because agreements were made on this subject, but also because of the spectacle that was staged yesterday by the majority. Many new amendments were tabled yesterday and this morning we are discussing a draft law on the implementation of the Ipa. That's not a detail. If we have to discuss the implementation of part of the Ipa without the Minister of Work being present, I do not think that is justified. In addition, a titled mayor, who is a member of the federal government, is replaced. Someone has been appointed to replace Minister Dermagne as mayor. I would therefore like to remind you, first of all, of the arrangements made with regard to the presence of competent members of the government. Secondly, I would like to highlight the importance of the subject under discussion here today. As far as the absence of Minister Vandenbroucke is concerned, the same agreements apply. Madam President, you have just written a very fair letter, in no uncertain terms, about the absence of the government. As a result, agreement was reached on the presence, not just of the government but of the relevant ministers. It is not up to us, Mr President, because of the government itself, to discuss today a draft law for which at least four federal government ministers are responsible. One could have thought of that earlier. There was no consensus in committee yesterday about the fact that Minister Vandenbroucke should not be here today. I would like to make it clear, Mr Clarinval, that we did not approve of this. Moreover, we do not have all the texts which are relevant and which need to be adopted, and I have tabled an order motion in this context. There are pertinent questions that should be put to the Minister responsible. If it is not here, we cannot accept it. I would like to stick to my question that all the relevant ministers are present in the discussion of this draft law. I also understand that Minister Dermagne can't just be here in ten minutes, but I'm here all day. However, this is too important. We are not going to discuss the implementation of the Ipa without the Minister of Work being present, are we? So what exactly are we doing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u8	Madam President, why do we find ourselves in this situation today? It is, of course, because of the government, which, if I may say so, ministers, has shown very little respect for the majority, although the majority will never recognize it, and even worse for the opposition. Indeed, you have used the technique of introducing amendments to refer the text back to committee, amendments that have been wrongly made, because basically it was just a matter of setting foot in the door, with pieces of legislation transformed into amendments on a bill that had nothing to do with it, at the last minute. They were received half an hour before the commission. This technique pushed to this point is never seen. There is always a funnel before 21 July, but being able to move texts forward requires that we do so in a serious way and in good conditions. That's not at all what happened yesterday. Rebelote, we find ourselves in this situation in plenary today, which the honourable Member has just described, in a completely justified way. I understand that Mr Dermagne is being retained in the situation in which we live. We also know that a plenary is still scheduled for Monday. There's also one this afternoon. In short, it means that we can – and perhaps, Madam President, it is your responsibility, after what we experienced yesterday – put a little bit of oil back in the workings and a little bit of respect between the government and Parliament, so that the government can have these texts voted fairly quickly. Let us acknowledge that doing so within the next two or three days is still very fast for bills that should have been tabled in due form and that we have passed through amendments tabled half an hour before the committee! A little order for the work in Parliament and perhaps also for the services would be welcome. Do you find it normal, Madam President, that they were required to make a written report that was sent to us at 1:37 a.m.? Doesn't that shock you? Do you think it's normal that we can say in committee that getting them to work day and night is the same? As far as I'm concerned, it shocked me! I've read this report. We will have to make a series of changes. I understand that the services have not been in an optimal position – that is the least we can say – to write it. These changes will be made by tomorrow. So we'll only have a final report tomorrow. Madam President, it is up to you to take your responsibilities so that the work can take place in good conditions. Mr Vandenbroucke was in committee. I should still be there. But I am here with my helmet to follow the work of the Health Committee at the same time as I speak to you because I have questions to ask. Frankly, this way of doing things is not serious, is not correct! There are exits that will be suitable for the government, thanks to a fairly constructive work by the opposition that wanted to move forward, while, as you know, there are ways to prevent you from doing so. As far as I am concerned, it does not bother me at all to move forward, but on the condition that it is done on the basis of a correct, serious and respectful work for each other. Indeed, while these texts concern a large number of people, the government is making it impossible for us to verify the content of these texts and to verify whether what is contained therein is in a fair and intelligent way linked to the agreements concluded with the social partners in the framework of the IPA. Madam President, I hope you can offer us a respectful exit solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u9	Madam President, we had the opportunity to discuss how to organise the work yesterday in committee. I am not going to repeat what has been explained, but I would like to take this opportunity of the plenary sitting to say that as a political group we also felt that there was a problem with how to work, because we were not really able to take on our responsibilities when we received a whole series of amendments 30 minutes before the beginning of the committee. Together with the other opposition parties, we gave a strong signal to the majority that this was not right. I think the lessons will have been learned. We have come to a solution that I would not call compromise; we have had to make concessions, in any case on our side. We criticized this approach, and at the same time we were able to move forward and have a discussion on the substance of this bill. We also raised a problem with respect to certain sections of the Regulations. Some of the amendments introduced are not directly related to the original draft. Moreover, for some amendments, the opinions of the Council of State were not communicated at the same time to the parties of the majority and the opposition. I will not comment on the Ministers' absences, given the dramatic situation. Above all, we have something to say about the substance of the amendments that have been added to this draft. We are very critical of the fact that these provisions concern a large number of people, including their purchasing power. We want to have this debate here now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u10	Madam President, I would like to return to yesterday's work and make my comments on this as the fourth opposition party. It cannot, of course, end well if legislation is to be added to other draft laws which have a totally different content by means of all kinds of tricks............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... They hardly have anything to do with the original bill. That back door was actually left open with amendments that were super urgent a few days ago and were sent back from the plenary to committee, after which they were immediately withdrawn from the same committee. The original draft law was therefore only intended to serve as a smuggling route for other initiatives which are not considered worthy of full discussion in committee. The amendments were delivered yesterday 40 minutes before the start of the committee, while the texts had been ready for weeks. The Council of State's opinions on the amendments date from 22, 23 and 24 June. Then do not tell us that they have suddenly become very urgent and that these urgent adjustments are necessary. In fact, for these amendments, the Rules of Procedure have been set aside de facto. In fact, the Conference of Presidents asked for permission to send back to committee a few small, not very important amendments quickly, because the deadline would expire. However, that back door has been used to allow much more and much larger issues, even the interprofessional agreement, to be dealt with in the committee with urgency. The amendments could have been tabled perfectly as separate draft laws or at least much earlier than yesterday afternoon. For example, we could have prepared the discussion thoroughly and then the texts would have been worth a thorough and thorough discussion. Moreover, we should not have forced the services to provide exceptional services. After a long and chaotic day, the reporters of the Social Affairs Committee had to work until 2 p.m. tonight in order to be able to send the report to the members of the committee and to the plenary. The purple-green government has just forced the staff of the Social Affairs Committee, the committee which, among other things, has to deal with well-being at work and correct working conditions, to deal with matters which would lead to the same parties, or certainly trade union representatives in industry, jumping on the table and calling for a strike. If the government does not want to leave that out of respect for Parliament, out of respect for the opposition or out of respect for good legislation, then it will at least do it out of respect for Parliament's staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u11	Madam President, I would like to draw a distinction between form and substance and what has happened since yesterday, and the way in which services are used at this stage. In terms of form, the work has not worked properly; no one has said the opposite since yesterday, neither the government, nor the members of the majority, nor the members of the opposition. We all said that the game wasn't very beautiful, that it wasn't very clear and that it could have been done much better. We have all said this on several occasions, but we have nevertheless decided, with the consensus of the committee, to continue the work, with a break in the meeting which has reached a new consensus, saying that we will resume at 6.15 p.m. This consensus was once again drawn from the committee. Could we now move forward on the content and succeed? You've often mentioned services. We should succeed because I think the services want it. They actually worked that night. I do a little parenthesis about the fact that it was never said in committee that it was the same thing to work at night or at day, of course. Reference was made to a proposal to make an oral report which would therefore have been less burdensome than a written report. This has not been possible and it is natural that the opposition wishes to have a written report. But it was in order to facilitate the work of the services that we wanted an oral report. This has not been possible, but it is no big deal. So we decided to work differently. As far as the time of writing is concerned, we have been in constant contact with the services to find out what was the most realistic way, in agreement with them, to bring the reports to fruition. So I'd like to stop a little bit with that! The return to plenary was also decided by consensus at the end of the meeting. One person mentioned his unavailability to be present because he had to ask questions in the Committee on Health, but then we came back to plenary and closed the work of the plenary without any mention of any difficulty in working this morning. Between last night and this morning (10:20 a.m.) there was no mention of any problem to be re-examined this morning, nor did I receive any information that meant it to me. The ministers present represent the government. Minister Vandenbroucke said yesterday that he would not be present. I do not see what today and now would prevent us from continuing to work. If you want a few more hours to read or see again, it can be discussed. But not about an absence. The government is represented. We can continue the work. Let us not take as an excuse what would have happened in committee which would have sent negative signals for this morning 10 a.m.! There wasn't any.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u12	An order motion was tabled by Mr Björn Anseuw and reads as follows: "During the discussion of draft law 2070 on temporary support measures as a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic in the Committee on Social Affairs of 14 July 2021, it appeared that the rules and modalities for granting a corona premium are not included in the amendments under consideration, but we quote the explanatory memorandum to Amendment 6: "This corona premium is up to EUR 500 and the rules and modalities for this are laid down in Article 19quinquies of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 implementing the Law of 27 June 1969 revising the Decree Law of 28 December 1944 on social security for workers. This contribution shall not be regarded as a wage for social security if it fulfils the conditions laid down in this Article 19quinquies. The corona premium shall also be exempt from income tax." The Council of State itself states in its opinion that this reference is too far-reaching: "The cases in which the corona premium can be granted do not appear to be sufficiently clear from the preliminary draft. It is true that, according to the agent in the draft Article 19quinquies, Paragraph 4 (2) of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 (Article 2 of draft 69.627/1), the premium can only be granted to undertakings which have achieved good results during the crisis and will be provided for by the bodies involved in the conclusion of the relevant collective agreements, but the legislation should include the minimum criteria to allow the recipients of the standard to decide, with minimum legal certainty, whether or not they are eligible for the benefit of the proposed premium scheme.' For the further examination of these amendments in plenary, it is essential to know the exact content of this amended Article 19quinquies of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 and the opinion of the Council of State on this matter. The government has indicated that Article 19quinquies would indeed be amended and published in the Belgian Official Journal together with the draft law 2070. Asks the Chamber of Representatives of the Belgian Government, and in particular the Minister for Social Affairs, Frank Vandenbroucke, to deliver the above texts to the Chamber for the meeting and for the discussion of draft law 2070 providing temporary support measures as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic." A point of order was tabled by Mr. Björn Anseeuw and reads as follows: "During the discussion of Bill 2070 on temporary support measures due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it appeared in the Social Affairs Committee of 14 July 2021 that the rules and procedures for granting a Corona bonus have not been incorporated into the amendments under consideration but that - we cite the justification of Amendment 6: "This Corona premium cannot exceed 500 euros and the rules and procedures relating thereto are laid down in Article 19quinquies of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 made pursuant to the Law of 27 June 1969 revising the Decree-Law of 28 December 1944 on social security for workers. This premium shall not be regarded as remuneration for social security when it meets the conditions laid down in Article 19quinquies. The Corona premium is also exempt from income taxes." The Council of State itself states in its opinion that this reference goes too far: "The cases in which the Corona premium may be granted are not sufficiently detailed in the preliminary draft. According to the delegate, it must be inferred from the draft article 19quinquies, § 4, second paragraph, of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 (Article 2 of draft article 69.627/1) that the premium can only be granted to companies which have achieved good results during the crisis and clarifications will be given in this regard by the bodies associated with the conclusion of the collective labour agreements in question, but it remains nevertheless that the legislation should contain the minimum criteria in order to enable the recipients of the standard to determine with a minimum of legal certainty whether or not they can benefit from the bonus scheme in draft. For further consideration of these amendments in plenary, it is essential to know the exact content of this amended Rule 19quinquies of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 and the opinion of the Council of State on this matter. The government indicated that Article 19quinquies would indeed be amended and that it would be published in the Belgian Monitor in conjunction with Bill 2070. The House of Representatives asks the Belgian Government, and more specifically the Minister of Social Affairs, Mr Frank Vandenbroucke, to forward the above-mentioned texts to the House sitting and before the discussion of Bill 2070 on temporary support measures due to the Covid-19 pandemic." We will put the question to the minister who is on the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u13	I am not convinced that the previous issue, namely the required presence of the relevant ministers, has been clarified, unless you will invite both ministers to come here. We need to be clear about this first. Among other things, following your letter, Madam President, to the government two or three weeks ago, very clear agreements were made with the government that all the relevant ministers or State Secretary would be present in the discussion of draft laws. Now there are two ministers absent. It seems logical to me that these agreements should be kept and that we should wait for the ministers concerned to arrive. We've been here all day. It is really unfortunate that these agreements should just be placed next to us within two weeks and that such an important matter should be discussed in the absence of the relevant ministers. That can't be the point, can it? Will you ask the ministers to come here? What are your plans for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u14	With my letter to the Prime Minister, I asked for the presence of the government. The government is present and represented today. The Minister for Health is also present in our House. He's in a committee room. If you intend to ask him to come here, you must make a written request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u15	I will hand you that written request for both ministers. Your letter is indeed about the presence of the government. Following that letter, agreements were made at the Conference of Presidents. It was agreed that the relevant government members should be present in the discussion of draft laws. That is not the case here. Your letter was about one case. The agreements resulting from this at the Conference of Presidents deal with another matter, in particular that the Minister concerned should be present in the discussion of a draft law such as this implementing Minister Dermagne's Ipa, unless the implementation of the Ipa is a divers one. In that case it is better to shut down Parliament, because then everything is becoming a failure diverse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u16	There are two ways to look at things. We can stick to the letter and ministers must be present regardless of external circumstances. I would like to point out that Mr Vandenbroucke is present: he is in committee to answer the honourable Members' questions. It is therefore at the disposal of Parliament, it is in another room. If you want us to interrupt Members' business, we will. It's not a problem, but you have to make a written request. In addition, I started this session by explaining that there were dramatic situations. There are deaths in Wallonia as a result of these floods. Independents have lost everything! All governments are on the bridge. The governors triggered the crisis phases. The civil protection services, the fire department, the police are all on deck. Those who were on leave were called back! You deny this because you want the minister to be here instead of being with the people who are in a dramatic situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u17	Madam President, I just applauded you. It shows how much I'm on the same wavelength as you. I would like to address my colleague Björn Anseeuw, who referred to the Conference of Presidents. A number of things have indeed been said. On that occasion, Mr. Laaouej said that the presence of the competent ministers was required in the context of the discussion of the texts, provided that there were no exceptional circumstances or other circumstances which prevented them from being present. At the Conference of Presidents, everyone found this entirely logical, including your group leader. That's exactly what's going on this morning. Please, let's continue the work! The government is present. From a regulatory point of view, work can continue, bearing in mind that Minister Vandenbroucke is currently in this Parliament. Let us also respect the letter of what has been said in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u18	Mr Anseuw, you refer to a number of agreements, but you are not particularly consistent. I'm referring to the appointment that was made yesterday. The Minister for Health was here until 10 p.m. and he was certainly willing to stay here longer to begin the discussion, but I understand that there had to be a written report on your question, with the appointment to start today's discussion at 10.15 p.m. That agreement was made here yesterday in plenary. I suggest that you also include that appointment in your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u19	Mrs. Depraetere, you do a little bit of violence to the truth. I did not ask for the discussion of this bill to start this morning. I never asked. The fact that I am asking for a written report from the committee's discussion is also a turning point in the world. It is the rule that there is a written report in committee. An oral report is the exception. However, since it concerns amendments which concern us half an hour before the committee meeting yesterday, and since it is not about technical details, but also about a number of extremely important dossiers for you, namely the implementation of the Ipa, I do not think it is really about following the rule that there should be a written report. We can agree on that, can't we? You say that because of my actions we are now here to discuss this bill in the form in which it is now before us. In view of the timing in which it concerns us, we could not discuss it earlier, because we only received the amendments yesterday afternoon, you cannot blame me. Some of those texts were already ready in May, Mrs Depraetere. The first documents delivered to us yesterday were already produced in May. Then you shouldn't blame me for playing games here. I am trying, in a serious way, to discuss important issues, such as the legislation that is now before us, in an orderly manner. It is not my fault that Mr Vandenbroucke is not here. Madam President, as regards the absence of Minister Dermagne, yesterday afternoon amendments were tabled consisting of a complete draft law implementing an important piece of the Ipa. At the time when these amendments were tabled, the flooding was already there and the human misery was already there. You should not blame me for being the inhumane person asking for a Minister of Work to be here. It is because of them and his efforts that we are in the situation we are in. For the sake of understanding, I have no problem with Minister Dermagne not coming here immediately. Indeed, I sympathise with the many people who pay an incredibly high toll there because of the water pollution. However, we have a whole day of plenary sitting today and, as Mr Fonck said, we also have a plenary sitting on Monday. I am trying in the most constructive way to allow a serious discussion of this bill, but if nothing is possible, I will, of course, consider what means I can still use to ensure that the relevant ministers can be here. However, you should not blame me for being inhumane. The amendments we are discussing have been tabled at a time when Minister Dermagne knew that there was water pollution and at a time when there was a great deal of human misery. Those amendments were subsequently tabled. It has therefore been the choice of the authors of the amendments to determine the timing that we are now following. I do propose that this discussion should not begin until the qualified minsisters are here. If the discussion is to take place later today or Monday, it will not be a problem for me. Then we can start the discussion in an orderly manner, but if both the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Work are not here, why are we still here?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u20	Mijnheer Anseew, I'm not criticizing anyone. I'm just saying that today there are exceptional circumstances. No one here in this room has used any leverage to drop these waterspouts on some of our country's provinces. Let this happen simultaneously with the examination of our texts in plenary session, no one could have foreseen it! In the letter I sent to the Prime Minister, it is clearly stated: "Unless force majeure exists, the member of the competent government is required to be present at the meeting." I think we are, in fact, facing a case of force majeure today, and that is the expression I wanted to use. Let us recognize this together: today there is a case of force majeure which prevents the minister, particularly affected in his commune, from being present during our work. And, as the Prime Minister has said, the government is a collegial body. If a member is prevented, he or she can be represented, which is the case today. You had the opportunity to question the minister, who was present in committee yesterday, despite the water trusses, to present the amendments. Personally, I also do not see what is the concern about whether or not Mr Dermagne is present in particular. If you wish Mr Vandenbroucke's, that means that the work of the Health Committee must be interrupted. But then, a written request must be made, as stipulated in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u21	Madam President, of course I can only abound in your words. First, it's an exceptional situation. We're not going to go back to that. I believe that everything has been said and we are well aware of this tragedy and solidarity with our colleagues on the ground. On the other hand, all the answers to the questions asked yesterday were provided by the three competent ministers. The debate took place. Let's stop tarrying! The Government is represented by two ministers. I suggest you move on. As I said to you yesterday in committee, there are important elements in this bill that our fellow citizens are waiting for. This is not the time to make the procedure for the procedure. I urge you to continue the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u22	Let us then continue our work. Mr Anseeuw has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u23	A motion was tabled by Mr Björn Anseuw and reads as follows: "Requested the presence of a member of the government, Art. Art. 100 GW and Art. 100 GW and Art. 100 GW and Art. 100 GW and Art. 100 GW and Art. 100 GW and Art. 100 GW and Art. 100 GW and Art. 100 GW and Art. 100 GW and Art. 100 GW and Art. 100 GW and On several occasions, this legislature found that members of government remained absent from the discussion of (own) legislative work, both at committee sessions and at the plenary sessions of the Chamber. The theme was: - discussed several times at the Conference of Presidents - submitted to the government. In view of the recent agreements between the government and Parliament on the presence of the relevant member of the government in the legislative process, we ask for the presence of the ministers Frank Vandenbroucke and Yves Dermagne in the discussion of the draft law 2070 on temporary support measures as a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic." A motion was tabled by Mr. Björn Anseeuw and reads as follows: "Claiming the presence of a member of the government – Art. In addition, the Constitution of the Republic of Lithuania and the Constitution of the Republic of Lithuania (art. 50 of the Regulation It has been noted on several occasions in this Parliament that members of the Government are not present at the time of legislative activities within their jurisdiction, both at committee meetings and at plenary sittings of the House. This theme was: - discussed several times in the Conference of Presidents - presented to the government. In view of the recent agreements between the government and Parliament regarding the presence of the member of the competent government at the time of legislative activities within its jurisdiction, we request the presence of Ministers Frank Vandenbroucke and Pierre-Yves Dermagne at the time of consideration of Bill 2070 on temporary support measures due to the covid-19 pandemic."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u24	Madam President, I have just read the letter: in writing, the presence of Minister Dermagne is requested. This is outrageous! Mr. Anseew, have you not heard what you were told? You accept the indignation that this is a case of force majeure and you manage to ask in writing that the Minister be present! It's totally outrageous! That's unworthy!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u25	I hear what you're saying, but I've made suggestions to meet them. We still have a plenary session all day, and if it is not possible today, we still have a plenary sitting on Monday, where this draft can be discussed perfectly and where it can be voted on. I'm looking for solutions. Madam President also suggested suspending the discussion and waiting for ministers to be available. That way, Minister Dermagne can do what he thinks he needs to do. I fully understand the human suffering, which is why I propose to deviate and to discuss the draft later today or, if that is not possible, on Monday in plenary. I really don't understand why that wouldn't be possible. In this way, Minister Dermagne has sufficient time to do other things, and that way, Minister Vandenbroucke can also be here. That is not insignificant, because we are talking about two competent ministers who are absent. I don't think my suggestion is that inhuman. I propose a solution and ask that the discussion be postponed, given that there is still a plenary sitting on Monday. So I do not understand why everyone is afraid to discuss this bill and the many amendments in the presence of the relevant ministers. I find that reaction very strange, given that we can discuss this substantively important piece of legislation in peace on Monday.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u26	It is disrespectful to suggest that we will discuss this further on Monday. You knew yesterday that Mr Vandenbroucke had today's Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities, to which he has to answer questions. That is, of course, part of his duty and part of his job in Parliament. You have the services prepare a written report tonight so that we can begin the discussion here, now to say that the written report itself is not sufficient and that you demand the representation of two ministers, while there are two other ministers from the government. I'd like to meet you, too. After all, Minister Vandenbroucke is prepared to come here. Members of your group in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities may not be satisfied with that. That does not, however, alter the problem that Mr Dermagne has been prevented by the exceptional circumstances. I'm sure we'd like to meet you, but we're gonna ask you the same thing. That doesn't seem unreasonable to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u27	Mrs Depraetere, all madness on a stick, it is exactly as if I caused the problem because we held a written report last night on the important discussion in committee. The situation has already been outlined. Five amendments were sent back to committee from the plenary. They were actually a false beard and had to hide the fact that something completely different was coming, because those five amendments were withdrawn immediately after they arrived in committee and two full draft laws were inserted at the eleventh hour which had nothing to do with the original subject. I didn't choose that timing. I had to go through it. I was very constructive yesterday in committee, because I suggested that we discuss them yesterday at 6 p.m. So you should not teach me lessons about constructivity and seriousness. Today I am again making a suggestion that is perfectly workable, namely to postpone the discussion until all the relevant ministers can be present. Today is Thursday and I think Minister Dermagne can be here on Monday. So I have no lessons to learn from you about constructive opposition...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u28	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u29	You find it ambiting, Mrs De Block, but I would also be ashamed, in your place, as a member of this majority, who deals with this Parliament in a civil way and with democracy. Mrs Depraetere, I have no lessons to learn from you about constructiveness from the opposition. I make suggestions for solutions that take into account all concerns, but for some dark reason you do not want to go into them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u30	Mr Anseuw, I note that the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities, where Minister Vandenbroucke is currently present, demands that he remain there to answer questions, and so does the opposition. You're playing a game here now as if the whole planet is spinning around you. With all due respect, that is not the case. It's time you realized that! There are other people, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u31	I have the impression that we were not in the same world or in the same committee yesterday. I am not going to go back to that, but I want to see beyond the way the texts have arrived. We discussed it yesterday, Mr. Anseew. You were indeed in agreement and positive about taking a sitting break until 6:00 p.m. Three government ministers were present yesterday. As Mrs Reuter said, the debate took place and all the answers were given to your questions. I think that today, all you want to do is postpone the debate. You're not waiting for Mr. Dermagne. How can you say today what is the situation in Wallonia, Mr. Anseew? Minister Dermagne was there last night. Like me, he lives in Liège, Mr. Anseew. In Flemalle, there are no floods but in Liège, it is the disaster. In Rochefort, it's a disaster. People don't know how to move. Do you realize the beating rains that fell again this night on our cities and communes? That we have Mr. Vandenbroucke here is one thing. I am sorry, but we discussed it at yesterday's committee. Mrs. Fonck intervened. On his proposal, it was decided to hold a plenary meeting this morning. Then she intervened and said she had a commission. How was Mr. Vandenbroucke going to do it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u32	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u33	Nobody said anything! I'm sorry, Mrs. Fonck! Everyone agreed to come to plenary yesterday. What does that mean? Can we not have some tolerance for Minister Dermagne?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u34	Madam President, I am trying to understand the situation. Yesterday, at the end of the committee, there were no more questions. I asked, one last time, if any members still wanted to make remarks or ask questions before voting. I've been told no. I can very well imagine that when the report is reread, new questions may arise. I would therefore like to know whether that is the case. In this case, I think the government is in a position to respond to it, regardless of which member of the government will respond. Yesterday I also asked a question about the report (oral report, two hours; written report, between three and four hours). We had the idea of finishing our work overnight, waiting for the text to be ready to see it again. All ministers were present. I think I can say that the House's group leaders decided, in a consensual manner, in plenary session, to stop the proceedings last night and resume them this morning. I assure you that when I arrived this morning, I saw no signal that we should now question our agenda. It was never mentioned at the end of the committee last night, nor at the end of the plenary session. Why, this morning, suddenly, has everything changed? I do not understand, unless an absolutely existential question has to be asked. In which case, I am sure that the members of the government present will be able to respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u35	Mr Anseuw, of course we are in favour of having relevant ministers present in the debate on their draft laws here in plenary. The fact that Minister Dermagne has other cats to fling at at the moment, that there is force majeure, I think we all have to understand that. However, that must not prevent us from doing our job. I would ask College De Block to convey correct information from the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities. That committee does not at all demand that Minister Vandenbroucke stay there. In fact, Minister Vandenbroucke has just said that if the House calls him, he will immediately cross the street. I suggest that we do so so so that we can spend our time more usefully than we have done in the last 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u36	I propose that you vote by sitting and raised on the motions that have been tabled. First of all, I propose that you vote on the motion that requires the presence of ministers, since it is the one that seems most essential to me and then vote on the motion that requires documents from the government. We therefore begin by voting on the point of order tabled by Mr Anseew concerning the presence for the legislative work of Ministers Vandenbroucke and Dermagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u37	Madam President, the situation on the ground is serious. Therefore, I cannot join Mr. Dermagne's requisition and, as a result, I will not support the motion. Having said that, I repeat to the majority that there is a solution to include this bill in the plenary session that we will have to hold, anyway, on Monday. And, in relation to that, the attitude of the majority is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u38	It's noted, Mrs. Fonck. I propose that the chairmen take a decision on this motion. I propose that the chairmen of the political groups vote on this motion. The motion was defeated. The motion is rejected. There is no support for requisitioning the presence of Messrs. Ministers. We turn to the other motion for documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u39	Madam President, I would like to clarify my order. Yesterday, during the discussion of Bill No. 2070 on temporary support measures as a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic in the Committee on Social Affairs, it has been found that the rules and modalities for granting a corona premium are not included in the amendments under consideration. I quote the explanatory statement to Amendment No. 6: "This corona premium does not exceed EUR 500 and the rules and modalities for this are laid down in Article 19quinquies of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 implementing the Law of 27 June 1969 revising the Decree Law of 28 December 1944 on social security for workers. This contribution shall not be regarded as a wage for social security if it fulfils the conditions laid down in this Article 19quinquies. The corona premium shall also be exempt from income tax." I look at the famous article 19quinquies in the royal decree of November 28, 1969. Logically, I asked Minister Vandenbroucke, the Minister who is not here today, if we could please get the text of that article, because in the end that is implicitly part of the amendments and thus also of the draft law before us for adoption. I am not the only one who has reservations about this way of working, because the Council of State, in its opinion, has also made the point that this is very far-reaching. I quote: 'The cases in which the corona premium can be granted are not sufficiently clear from the preliminary draft. It is true that, according to the agent in the draft Article 19quinquies, paragraph 4 (2) of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969, the premium can only be awarded to undertakings which have achieved good results during the crisis and will be further specified by the bodies involved in the conclusion of the relevant collective agreements, but the minimum criteria should be laid down in the legislation in order to allow the recipients of the standard to decide, with minimum legal certainty, whether or not they are eligible for the benefit of the proposed premium scheme.' It is essential to know the exact content of that Article 19quinquies, as well as the opinion of the Council of State, for the further examination of those amendments and the draft law as it now stands in plenary. The Council of State has obviously not been able to see it either, as it is not clear from its opinion and from the draft law. This can be compared to a purchase contract for a house that must be signed referring to another document containing a number of provisions, but that document is at home with the seller. The seller says it's okay and what's in it. The buyer wouldn't sign that. However, that is what we are being asked to do here. It is only natural that the Chamber of Representatives should ask the Belgian Government, and in particular Mr Vandenbroucke, to receive the above texts, namely the text of Article 19quinquies of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969, before we proceed with the discussion of this bill. We are actually talking about texts that we do not even have in our possession. That's a very strange way of working. That is why I submit this order motion to ask the Minister and the Belgian Government to give us the text of that famous Article 19quinquies so that we can have a serious discussion here with knowledge. Now, after all, it is literally about a blank cheque.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u40	I propose that the chairmen take a decision on this point of order. I propose that the chairmen of the political groups take a decision on this order. The point of order is dismissed. The order motion is rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u41	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Ms Maggie De Block, Ms Nahima Lanjri, Mr Björn Anseeuw, rapporteurs, referred to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there seem to be a lot of colleagues here who do not find it worthwhile reading texts, which they will probably approve shortly, because they do not even have them in their possession. This is a special time in the workings of this Parliament, which we will have to adopt implicitly texts which we cannot take note of. In any case, we will not approve them. I think this is a bizarre way of working. It's irresponsible. It's not serious. The same applies to yesterday's way of working, when the original draft law was fundamentally amended by amendment. This is not only disrespectful of the Members of Parliament, but it will also ensure that our legislation, which is already known for its cottages, continues to develop exponentially. It's starting to look more like a slum. From that point of view too, I believe, it is not a good way of working a draft law implementing the welfare envelope and a draft law implementing the Ipa, by inserting amendments into a draft law on temporary co-vid support measures. I would like to make that general remark before I start my speech on the substance. This bill has become a complete chop shop. There are several support measures in it. I won't go over them all, but I'll do some. We discussed them all in committee. For example, when it comes to generating for the third quarter the possibility of volunteering in private residential care centres, I believe that this is a good thing. This is not an unnecessary luxury for the work organisation in those private residential care centres. I know that a number of Members expressed reservations in committee, especially Mr Lanjri, who felt that this was not the best solution. But in these residential care centres, there is a great deal of difficulty in organizing the work in such a way that the staff can enjoy a holiday, which is more than deserved. Leave arrangements should be made available, but there is a tight labour market in the care sector, especially in residential care centres. I therefore believe that the temporary use of volunteers is certainly not an unnecessary luxury, especially because it is not a short cut because the residential care centres do not want to recruit, but because there are hardly any people who can be recruited. So I guess there's no other choice to do that. I have made a comment in committee, and I repeat it here. The argument put forward in the explanatory memorandum of the draft law, which refers in particular to the high number of infections which make it possible to continue to use these volunteers, does not make sense because there has been no high number of infections for some time. I believe that the only right justification for this is to ensure the organisation of work and to make every effort for the staff in the residential care centres to make workable work. After the last year and a half, that is certainly not an unnecessary luxury. We have always supported the measure concerning the extension of the deferral of payments of RSZ contributions in previous quarters. Indeed, the economy has not yet reached its peak, but it is time to work actively on an exit scenario and get rid of the many corona aid measures, but also of the many corona restrictions. After all, this cannot last forever. We certainly support this measure in substance. We support the postponement of RSZ contributions for many employers in the third quarter. They are still having a very difficult time today. They've suffered a lot of loss of revenue. They must be able to rebuild their turnover. That's gonna take some time. We certainly support this measure in its content. However, there is a sting to this bill. After all, it has always been the case that the extension of the delay for RSZ contributions was introduced by law. It is now stated in the draft law that this should no longer come to Parliament for the fourth quarter, that it can be decided by KB. I am just convinced that we should gradually approach the tilting point, the pivot point at which we take the exit from those many corona restrictions and many corona aids. At the end of the third quarter, it is more than ever the time to hold a parliamentary debate on this issue. I do not understand, therefore, if this quarter after quarter can be approved by Parliament, the past has shown this, why then now suddenly, when it becomes more relevant than ever to have a debate on that exit scenario, which is being excluded from Parliament and it is going to happen per KB. I don't understand that at all. We cannot, of course, agree with that either. Another aid measure is the flexible use of temporary unemployed in other sectors. We have always been very much in favour of using the temporary unemployed as much as possible in other sectors, where there are indeed more needs, where a lot of helping hands are needed. The flexible use of these temporary unemployed is very good, all the more so as this should be able to promote mobility in our labour market more than ever. In this sense, we have always supported and supported this measure. We ourselves have also put forward various proposals on this subject in Parliament, which are still before us for discussion. Another measure exposes a structural problem to our Belgian labour market. Today we have a 70% rate of activity in this country. It is the current government's ambition to increase the activity rate to 80%. That is indeed a very serious ambition, especially when you know that the rate of activity in Brussels is only 62% and in Wallonia only 64%. In Flanders this degree is already more than 75%. That's already starting to go towards that 80 %. A blind man, however, sees that the challenge in this area is enormous. There are also millions of inactive people in our country. These are people of working age who, for one reason or another, do not work. We are talking about the unemployed and the long-term sick, of which a certain group really wants to work and which, under certain conditions and circumstances, could not be activated in one way or another. It is important that that activation is deployed more than ever. It is not unimportant that there are about one and a half million people in this country who are working between the ages of 18 and 64 who are not even looking for work. They're not looking for work and they're not asking for anything. That is a capital of labour that our society needs. Only, those millions of inactive persons are not activated or not activated enough. I have to admit that the activation policy, which was so much to be done in the coalition agreement, which stated that the government would go to that 80%, is now mainly or exclusively excels in measures of an inactivation nature. It is still waiting for the first activation of the Croo government. It seems, however, that this is one of the prices that this country has to pay for a left-wing and Walloon government, especially in terms of the socio-economic themes and domains in that country. There we see literally and figuratively a thick red thread running through. However, activation is extremely important. This means and ensures, as it is not happening now, that, for example, in Flanders alone, there is an incredibly tight labour market. It's not just about the residential care centers. There are many vacancies that are not filled, while we have millions of inactive people in this country. Very striking is a measure that exposes a structural problem in the Belgian labour market. One of the measures proposed is to allow asylum seekers to fill those vacancies. It is now, after all, particularly punishment that millions of inactive people in their own countries are counting on asylum seekers, people in an asylum procedure, who are not even sure whether they will be able to stay here, to fill those vacancies. It is difficult to find a lasting solution in the context of our labour market policy and the tight labour market. You can hardly think of this as a sustainable, structural measure. After all, several of these asylum seekers will inevitably have to leave sooner or later. Then there are these vacancies again, while millions of countrymen are not wanted to activate. That is punishment, all the more so because certain expectations will be created among the people in an asylum procedure. If they are allowed to work here during their asylum procedure, some of these people will have unnecessary expectations that will not be met, namely that they may be allowed to stay here because they work here and build a life here. That is not the intention of people who are in an asylum procedure. We have expressed reservations about this in committee, especially as it almost exposes the failure of this government's labour market policy. In fact, the government is already throwing the towel into the ring regarding the level of effectiveness. I understand. In the facts, everything is opposite to the ambition of 80% activity rate in the government agreement of the De Croo government. Parental leave shall be extended. When children could not go to school because of the corona measures, parents had to be able to stay home to provide care. We have said from the outset that parents should not be able to stay home for the care, but that they should have time to organise the care. That doesn't mean they always have to vouch for that. This is being extended for the third quarter, while there are now two months of summer vacation and the school is closed anyway. Moreover, it is once again an anything but fine-meshed measure. After all, today it is still possible for an employee, a parent of a perfectly healthy 17-year-old teenager, to take temporary unemployment as a right when this would prove necessary for the care of that 17-year-old. He shouldn't even discuss it with his employer. That's a little out of control, isn't it? This is not an efficient use of resources, and it makes work organisation in the workplace unnecessary. The employer is at one time confronted with the temporary unemployment of an employee, without an objective necessity, but simply because this law allows it and continues to allow it for the third quarter. We will not change our minds, because that's just what's left of it. Parental leave to take care of 17-year-olds in the summer vacation to heart, seems to me to be completely useless. As long as this measure is not finer, we cannot approve it for the reasons I have mentioned. Many amendments have also been tabled concerning the welfare envelope and the implementation of the Ipa, in particular the 500 euro consumer cheque agreed upon. I would like to stress once again how important the wage standard, which we have been talking about for several weeks and months, is for employment in our country. Under the legislation in force, wages should not increase more than the wage standard laid down in the law. For this and next year, it will be about 0.4% on top of the automatic wage indexing. Now, however, we note that it has been agreed in the IPA that it is possible to go beyond the wage standard, even though the government agreement did not state that the wage standard law would not be affected. Now, however, the wage standard is being touched on and I would have liked to ask Minister Dermagne a number of additional questions about it, but that is not possible now, because he is not here. I think that is a great pity, because next Monday we could have done it perfectly in peace and quiet, but we apparently were not given that for some dark reason. The wage standard is extremely important, because if we let go of the wage standard, which is happening here de facto already, then the question is what its effect is. The wage standard is important, because it ensures that many jobs in our country are not priced out of the market in relation to our neighbouring countries. In the years 2014 to 2018 with the Michael I government, the labour cost handicap towards our neighbouring countries has been eliminated. That has also made a difference, because there was never more private job creation than in that period. This is, of course, the only real structural measure and the only real structural effect in labour market policy to be pursued. The private job creation is incredibly important, because that will restore the affordability of our social security. That's a problem today, isn't it? Yesterday, the Secretary of State responsible for the Budget announced not only that the deficit is falling apart, but above all that the margins are running out. Then the next question is where will be cut. We need to make sure that more than ever we have a policy that puts more people to work, not less. If the wage standard is released now, what is happening here, thousands of jobs will be too expensive in our country compared to our neighbouring countries. The jobs of the most vulnerable in our labour market, the low-skilled, will disappear first. The policy ahead will increase the number of people who need to receive benefits, while the reserves are up and the budget deficit is rising to EUR 38 billion, according to the Secretary of State for the Budget. More than ever, there are sufficient reasons to focus on more people at work. That's what you do with this consumer check and not letting go of the wage standard at all. The coalition agreement states that the wage standard law is not to be abandoned. He'll be released. I'd like to discuss that again with the Minister of Work. He said yesterday that there were two ways of releasing the wage standard. This can be done by adapting the 1996 law, but this was a bit difficult for a number of parties. So another way was sought, namely the adaptation of the Royal Decree of which we should not know the adjustment. They don't want to know a lot of Members of this Parliament either, apparently. I understand that the Liberal colleagues certainly prefer to bury their heads in the sand, because the standard wage bill is actually being thrown overboard here today. In fact, the coalition agreement is being thrown overboard again. So we should not attach much importance to the government agreement on activation policies and higher levels of effectiveness. The opposite happens over and over again. This evolution with regard to the wage standard is very bad. It'll cost us jobs and make sure more people get benefits. Minister Vandenbroucke, I'm glad you're here. I would ask you once again whether, during the discussion of this draft law, you can transfer to us the text of Article 19quinquies of the Royal Decree of 1969 for the very simple reason that reference is made to it in the draft law and the amendments before you. However, it seems that we should not take note of that text. I find it particularly strange that we in Parliament should adopt implicit texts which are not even transmitted to us. I therefore repeat my request that this text be sent to us without delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u43	Madam President, I will not be very long, because I have already spoken on the subject on several occasions. Do we still have to remember today that this crisis has put our jobs, our health care system, our economy and many vulnerable people, or not, under enormous pressure? Unprecedented measures have been taken to support workers, businesses, disadvantaged people and students. I will not go back to all these measures and their necessity, but for my group it is clear that these aids and safety nets have made it possible for inequalities to increase even further. Therefore, we will strongly support this bill. However, it is not limited to the extension of the support measures because, as we know, in recent months an agreement on the welfare envelope has also been reached. Thus, through this bill, we are also voting today on the legal provisions to implement the increase in the amount of income guaranteed to the elderly. In addition, it ensures the award of the Corona premium in successful companies. This is good news for all workers. My group will therefore support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u44	Where one goes along Flemish roads, one encounters barnyards. Fortunately, while these architectural miscarriages are increasingly disappearing from the land and from the street scene, barracks in this House are being elevated to an art form, to something adored by the members of the majority. In substance, it will be a bunch of all kinds of aid measures or extensions that we can support, but also of things that we have a lot of problems with. I may not be able to discuss them all separately. There are too many of them for that and they were delivered too late. The additional OCMW support, increasing the reimbursement of subsidies for living wages, temporary unemployment for coronaforce, the support or the RSZ discount for travel agencies or hotels can benefit from our support. This also applies to the revaluation of the proportional pension for self-employed persons. That is one of the things that was added to this draft yesterday. A few weeks ago, during the debate on the correction coefficient and its abolition, we asked for the opinion of the general management committee on this matter to be taken into account. For many decades, the pension of a self-employed person was artificially reduced by a scandalous correction coefficient. For the Flemish Interest, everyone deserves a decent pension after a full career hard work. That was often impossible for our self-employed. Earlier this year, this correction coefficient was abolished for the future, but for the past everything remained the same. With this re-evaluation, we will be able to accommodate this little bit, but not yet enough. However, we support this step in the right direction. We also support the increase in the income guarantee for older people by 2%. A number of payments, such as RSZ and pension contributions, are also postponed, but delays are not always delayed. That delay will cause some of our entrepreneurs to bleed enormously when they can no longer delay payment. Wouldn't it be better to work on a proper relance instead of postponing payments? There are also some questions to ask about the extended use of volunteers in our elderly care centres. The sector has received additional financial resources to employ additional staff, but with the extension of this measure, which was previously necessary in full corona crisis, it seems that the workforce in this sector will not be increased, but will instead continue to employ cheap or free volunteers. This is not a good measure in terms of relance and employment. Nor can we agree with the inclusion in our economy of people who do not even have a permanent residence permit, not only in order to protect the employment of the many tens of thousands of unemployed and inactive people, but also for those themselves. If their procedure ends badly, we have let them create and grow expectations before that that we cannot meet. At a time when the corona crisis is becoming extinct, it is not a matter for our group to continue to encourage voluntary overtime in the key sectors. In the absence of an overtime payment for these key sectors, the legislator must nevertheless pay attention to the possible abuse and thus to the possible distortion of competition. We don't need the extension anymore. After more than a year of hard work, it is time for rest and attention to well-being at work in these sectors. I am also thinking of the firm limitation of the treated periods for self-employed workers, especially for self-employed workers who have long been obliged to be shut down by the government, such as nightlife or large parts of our event sector. No self-employed person has asked for a year to be forced to sit at home and keep the case closed. That firm limitation of the treated periods does not give us our approval. We also have problems with the arbitrary grant of EUR 600 to self-employed workers, not necessarily with the premium itself, but with its arbitrary nature. After one and a half years of corona crisis, we are still unable to make the target groups more fine. Which self-employed people really need a premium and which less? In particular, which sectors need much more than these shot nuts? Many companies, which have been forced to shut down for over a year and a half, want to be able to start over. They want to do what they are good at, do what they set up their business for and where their talent lies. That does not exclude that we still have to help where necessary and stop where it is no longer necessary. Such linear measures no longer make sense. The group of self-employed people who have had a difficult time in recent months is in fact much larger than the aligned group that is being put in the sunlight today. Self-employed persons who may have worked on the ground against better knowledge are excluded from the scheme. The Council of State is therefore right to ask questions about respect for the principle of equality. The ipa debate which has been going on for months now is being followed up in a sleek manner. Employers who have achieved good results are exceptionally allowed to grant a premium of €500 to their employees, on top of the already maximum margin of 0.4%. We're just a cool lover of that kind of eco, gift and consumer cheque stuff. We see a lot of problems with that. What is that, good results? Of course, it is also a way to continue filling the ever empty state treasury. The social pressure to pay this premium has a not insignificant side effect on our budget. Of course, this is not a wage for employers. There are also no further social benefits, such as pension-building. For us, it must be done with the destruction of our own social security. To sum up, this potpourriwet cannot get our support in its globality. A number of measures do, however, have our support. I've been treating it before. We will ask for a separate vote on this draft law when we vote on it, but we will abstain for the whole of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u45	Madam President, Mr Anseeeuw called for the text of a draft decision adopted by the Council of Ministers at first reading. I have it sent to his secretariat so that Mr Anseeeuw can see that control and trust in this matter are the same. After all, I have said everything in the draft decision. Mr Anseuw, I am not going to go into all the points of discussion that we discussed yesterday. You will be able to verify that what I have said is also true.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will also go to the heart of the matter, not extending the measures we already know. However, if I may, I will come back to the amendments that complement this bill and were passed yesterday. These are necessary provisions for the sectors most affected by the crisis, mainly for the self-employed. These measures are positive for our SMEs and for all workers in this unprecedented context. This is the case with the Corona premium, negotiated within the framework of the interprofessional agreement. This measure allows companies that have achieved good results during the pandemic to grant this premium to workers exceptionally in 2021, in addition to the maximum margin for the evolution of wage costs set at 0.4% for the period 2021-2022 and to a maximum of 500 euros. This is a positive first aspect! As regards GRAPA beneficiaries, it was decided to increase the guaranteed income for the elderly by 2%, with effect from 1 July 2021 – as part of the distribution of the welfare envelope 2021-2022. This increase will complement that originally provided for by the Act of 21 March 2001 establishing the guarantee of income for the elderly and amended by the Act of 20 December 2020, which was implemented on 1 January 2022, 2023 and 2024. This is a second positive aspect of this project. I will focus more on measures to support our self-employed. We know this and the various investigations conducted by the ERMG, the Economic Risk Management Group, show that the independents are the ones who suffered the most from the crisis. Whether these are the sectors related to horeca, the contact trades (the hairdressers, the beauticians), or the fora and many other trades, many have been forced to remain closed as a result of the measures imposed by the government to limit the spread of the virus and have suffered heavy losses in terms of turnover since the beginning of the crisis. As a result, these independents have been severely affected by these restrictions and have been heavily impacted financially and sustainably. It is vital to provide them with additional support. It was therefore decided to grant a single premium to certain self-employed workers and carers whose self-employment is carried out primarily and to assisting spouses whose activity is strongly affected by the health crisis, as was the case with the single premium for temporary unemployed persons employed in a sector where the activities have also been decided upon by order of the authorities and who have received temporary crisis measures. This single premium amounts to EUR 500 net for these most affected independents and will be automatically paid by the Social Insurance Fund without any application being made. So it's a good boost for our independents. I thank Minister Clarinval for defending this measure, which is the third positive element. Finally, the bill provides for part of the allocation of the welfare envelope in favour of self-employed pensions. This measure implements the proposal of the General Management Committee for the Social Status of Self-Employed Workers to allocate the welfare envelope 2021-2022. From 1 July 2021 onwards, it is therefore planned to increase by 1.7% all proportional pensions already in payment and by 1.7% the pension gain obtained during the years of the flat-rate career before 1984 and in the period 1984-2020 for future pensions. It is on this point, moreover, that the amendments deal with. This measure applies to retirement pensions, survivors' pensions and transitional allowances which are not calculated on the basis of the minimum pension and which take place on 1 January 2021. It should also be recalled that, for career years from 2021, the government has already planned to increase the correction coefficient to 1, which already significantly increases the pension amount for career years from 2021. So this is a final element that allows us to revalue the pension amounts for our self-employed. This is all the more important in this time of crisis. That is why – obviously – we strongly support this bill in favour of the sectors most affected by the crisis, including the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u47	Madam President, first of all, allow me to take this opportunity to express my solidarity with all those affected by the floods in the north and south of the country. I had echoes from my comrades in Limburg, where the situation is catastrophic. But the whole country is unfortunately concerned here. I therefore hope that the necessary measures can be taken at the federal level. Having said that, we have, in this bill before us, tabled an amendment. In fact, the majority had introduced a favourable premium tax for self-employed persons of 16.5%. Our amendment aims to provide for the same tax rate for temporary unemployment of employed persons. The bill under consideration includes many measures. We would like to highlight three positive measures which we support, which are certainly not sufficient, but which are in the right direction. These are the extension of temporary unemployment in childcare, the additional assistance provided to those who are in real need of it, and the support provided to beneficiaries of social benefits, including young people. I will conclude my speech by focusing on the introduction of the famous 500 Euro Corona bonus that the government has decided to introduce into this project. It should be recalled that we are coming out of a very complicated year when everyone was able to see which workers made this country run during the pandemic. In fact, we applauded them. This year, we have also experienced a great social movement to demand the fair redistribution of wealth and wage increases. What do we see today? The latest figures from the National Bank indicate that the cost of living will increase by 4.3% in 2021 and 2022. This increase in the cost of living will therefore exceed automatic wage indexation and wage increases, which will be limited to a maximum of 0.4 per cent, a standard imposed by this government. This means that for an average salary, the loss of purchasing power will be 317 euros per year. What is this government doing? He now asks us to vote for a bonus of 500 euros to compensate for this. I have already said this in committee: we consider them peanuts. It doesn't mean peanuts for someone who has a low salary. We understand that very well. But it is peanuts in the face of profits and dividends that are paid to shareholders. I'll only take the Bel20. This year, Bel20 companies paid €5 billion in dividends. It is important to say this again because there are also ultra-rightist theses in this House which claim that everything will fall apart if we give aid to the workers who need it so much. There is money in this country and it is in this sense that they are peanuts. We will therefore of course not support the draft as it stands, especially since our Minister, Mr Dermagne, announced last week in plenary that he was clearly on the side of those who want to reform this famous 1996 law which imposes a straitjacket on wage increases and which does not allow the social partners to carry out negotiations freely. We have two concrete proposals to make to the minister and therefore to the government representatives present here, namely not to vote at second reading this royal decree which will limit wage increases to 0.4%, and to review the 1996 law as introduced in this Parliament through the Hedebouw-Goblet bill, which we encourage you to co-sign. Finally, Minister Dermagne also indicated that he could not afford to reform this law because he did not currently have a majority in this Parliament. That's good! We also have a proposal to make to you because the social movement did not say its last word. The FGTB met last Tuesday to demand to blow up this carcan and calls on the entire country to protest on 24 September. We call on the left-wing women and men of this Parliament to rely on the street movement to bring about a reform of the 1996 law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u48	The present draft law extends a number of support measures until the end of September. Even though the vaccination campaign runs like a train, it is clear to everyone that the impact of this crisis is still felt by certain sectors, businesses, self-employed people and vulnerable people. The event sector is still struggling and cafes still have closure hours. There is also temporary unemployment due to quarantine. Unfortunately, a number of holiday camps had to be cancelled due to a corona outbreak. Also foorkramers have not been able to take off full season. It is therefore only logical that all those people who still feel the impact of the biggest health crisis ever should continue to be able to rely on a strong government that supports them. That is why our group will support this bill. Various studies, including those of the FPS Economy, show that this support helps us to keep our economy right. This allows people to take things back and keep their heads above water. We also support the welfare of the IGO and self-employed pensions. Thus, although the crisis still has an impact on certain sectors, businesses, self-employed people and vulnerable people and affects them particularly hard, there were also sectors and companies that have been well-farmed despite this crisis. For those sectors where workers have given the best of themselves and have sometimes taken health risks to keep our country running and to ensure that food came on the table during the lockdown, there is a corona premium on top of the wage standard. In this way, workers can be rewarded for what they have done throughout this crisis. Does this premium compensate for all the challenges they have faced? No, but I think it is a step forward in relation to what was originally on the table in the negotiations. This contribution can be granted both at company and sectoral level, and it also counts for the pension. All other contributions granted by companies in the context of corona are also excluded from the wage standard. Is this enough? It can always be better, but nowhere in Europe is more social progress achieved than in Belgium. That's right. That's the way it's supposed to be. That is why our group will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u49	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, these pieces of legislation, these bills - which are no longer bills, but amendments to another bill - as they arrived at the last minute, put us in a complicated situation, and that is the least we can say. On the substance of the case, the government and the majority put us in a position to check whether what the government is presenting is or is not the fair and intelligent execution of the interprofessional agreement and, more broadly, since it is not just an interprofessional agreement, the social agreement with the social partners. In the conditions of time and with the way this is done, even if this night I have again examined a series of other documents in which I was immersed at the moment, it is impossible to verify with the field, impossible to re-check whether this text and the rest that we do not have available are in conformity, whether the writings are correct. This is all the more impossible because the CLC on the minimum wage, one of the major points of the interprofessional and social agreement, is still not validated, nor a fortiori signed. It is not known whether it will be concluded or whether it will be signed by all stakeholders and, in particular, all the social partners. The framework and package: it is impossible to see whether or not the government respects this matter, including through the content of these texts, which could be agreed in the social agreement. On the content of this text, and not on everything unknown, I would like to speak on a few points with all reservations in the absence of scrupulous verification on the substance and on the legal level. I still have a deep question about the equity between independents in relation to this covid bonus for the self-employed as a complement. To send them back with a turn of the hand, justifying that they have sufficient income on the other hand, is to ignore a plural reality on the ground. This is to ignore the situation of the self-employed as a complement who sometimes have a very small income as employees. It is also not aware of investments that continue to have to be paid by independents on a complementary basis. I am thinking in particular of some who are in transition between self-employed status on a complementary basis but with the will, envy and investment that they had made at the beginning or even before the crisis covid in order to be in transition to full self-employed status. It is also to ignore their reality, their situation. They are also deeply affected by the covid crisis. It is not only the full self-employed who are strongly affected by the crisis. This is also true of a number of self-employed people, and sometimes extremely difficult. Having failed to take into account their reality, even taking into account their other source of income, poses a real problem for me of choice on the part of the government. As far as pensions are concerned, yesterday I asked a series of questions which were not answered, particularly those concerning intergenerational equity. I am not repeating the whole device here. I'm synthesizing because everyone knows what this is about. If you apply an increase of 1.7% for pensions before 1984 but also between 1984 and 2020, this does not apply to those who will subsequently be pensioners. You justify this in the documents by saying that, in substance, there is no problem for the future because of the measure taken via the harmonization coefficient. But let's have a good count! It's obviously not the same. The level is obviously not the same as the 1.7% that are decided here. There is therefore still the question of intergenerational equity, particularly for future pensions, which are necessarily those of the youngest. This question remains, in my view, full and complete. I can't imagine we haven't done any modelling on this. These are all questions that I asked yesterday and to which we did not have a response at all from the government. Finally, the last point I would like to highlight concerns the welfare envelope. In the different types of allowances and pensions in the welfare envelope, there is therefore an increase of 1.7 to 2.5% depending on the different types of allowances. I should note that, with regard to maternity allowance, adoption allowance, foster parental leave and birth allowance, an increase of only 1%, i.e. on average half of the increase in other allowances, is applied. This particularly affects women. This affects families fully and completely, with, it seems to me, an even more difficult situation for single-parent families. This is unacceptable to us. Again, yesterday, the only justification given to me was "it's not us, it's the social partners". It's fun as this justification is variable geometry depending on the positive character or not. It's us or it's not us. But beyond that, I tried to clarify things that night, but in a time that did not allow me to do so. This does not seem to me to be reflected in the agreement of the social partners. It is therefore a choice on the part of the government. This choice could be corrected in light of the amounts it represents, and especially in view of the way in which some of you highlight the importance to be attached to women, who are directly penalized by this choice of a much more partial increase than the coefficient applied to other allowances. As far as we are concerned, this is an unacceptable point. For all these reasons, namely the continuing blurry, the lack of clarity regarding whether or not the agreement is being implemented, the full and complete blurring that persists singularly on the CTC on the minimum wage, as well as the various elements that I wanted to highlight more specifically this morning, we will abstain from this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as some have already mentioned before me, I would like first of all to express to the majority our dissatisfaction with the tabling of amendments to include two new bills in the existing text. It is a parliamentary technique which is not prohibited but which undermines the proper functioning of our institution and the democratic debate. It is a way of working that is not only disrespectful of the opposition but also disrespectful of Parliament's services. However, under the courageous leadership of the President, Parliament is trying to improve the working conditions of its members and its services. I don't think that's the right example. On the substance, and without repeating the debate, for the Finance and Taxation strand, as regards the temporary measure providing for a reduced VAT rate for oral masks and hydro-alcoholic gels, we support the measure. We even suggest that it be maintained for the future. Indeed, the arrival of new variants and the growing mutation of the virus, with a return to normal life, indicate that all means of combating the spread of a pandemic should be considered as essential assets. In this regard, we recall that the European Commission extended the VAT exemption on imports of these goods until the end of this year in the context of the fight against the pandemic. This reduced rate should therefore be extended at a minimum until the end of December 2021. Secondly, as regards the extension of the tax advantage for rent waiver, if our group continues to support the measure, we find that it has been adapted as a new condition of application has been added. The latter specifies that the establishment unit must have been closed for at least one day per month in order for the measure to apply. While we can share the objective of helping traders who have been forced to close, unfortunately we also fear that many of them will be excluded from the scope of this essential measure. On the social affairs side, the extension until 31 September 2021 of the temporary premium of EUR 50 per month for certain social beneficiaries is of course indispensable. It must be noted that social recipients continue to be in an extremely precarious financial situation in view of the rising prices during the pandemic. Although the measure will not yet reach the level of the European threshold, it must be supported. On the other hand, the continuation of measures to increase the rate of repayment of integration income by the state in favour of CPAS, meets our total support. From her experience, the Minister for Pensions and Social Integration knows something about this: since the beginning of the crisis, CPAS have faced a significant increase in requests for assistance. According to the information provided to us, unfortunately we were surprised to learn that more and more young people are also receiving social assistance. As far as the single Corona premium is concerned, there are still many questions about its implementation. The government is providing a single premium of €500 net for the self-employed most affected by the crisis, which is in addition to the maximum wage margin of 0.4% for the period 2021-2022. It is obviously difficult to vote against this measure, which limits the consequences of the economic and health crisis. However, as I have already said in previous discussions on the extension of temporary support measures, we are seriously concerned about the budgetary consequences but also about the longer-term employment of these measures. If the government does not quickly adopt new structural measures, we fear that a sound fiscal trajectory cannot be maintained. It is therefore for this government, but also surely for the next, to limit as much as possible the enormous budgetary and economic consequences of this pandemic. Moreover, our group does not perceive the difference between this single corona premium and the consumer cheque. As has been pointed out by the Council of State, these are not the same measures that should be distinguished. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour has indicated in committee that the Corona premium is closely linked to the crisis situation and is unique in nature. However, it was also clarified that the scope of the premium would be defined by reference to the consumer cheque. There is still doubt, therefore. Finally, as far as the wage standard is concerned, it is true that the Corona premium is not in addition to the wage standard. In other words, through this new premium, the wage standard negotiations are set aside. We draw the government's attention to the fact that this is a risky exercise. Of course, this has been done in the past, but we recall that the exception cannot become the rule. In conclusion, and as stated at the beginning of my speech, we will continue to support legislative initiatives to limit the consequences of the crisis. However, Parliament's control takes time to be fully efficient. The late tabling of amendments to include two new bills in the Hussard is a major impediment to parliamentary debate. In addition, several areas of shadow remain as a result of these amendments. We are unable to do our work properly and will therefore abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u51	Madam President, to answer Mrs Fonck's two questions, I do not think I have received more questions this morning. I will not repeat the debate on the self-employed as a complement, because we have had it half a dozen times. We cannot objectively compare the situation of self-employed persons on a supplementary basis, who benefit from income elsewhere, either through an allowance or through employment or through another activity, with self-employed persons who are primarily self-employed and who therefore no longer have any activity at all. The bridge right is only intended to compensate for the loss of income. Objectively compare the two situations and you will find that we are in two different situations! We can't make shortcuts like the ones you're doing. I am not saying that the situation of all self-employed people in complementary time is ideal. Indeed, some of them have low incomes alongside their activity, but objectively it was decided, long before the crisis of the covid, that they could benefit from a bridge right in the event that they would pay social contributions as does a full-time self-employed person. The situation is objectively different and they are entitled to fees if they pay contributions. I will not leave any doubt as to this comparison. Furthermore, all the figures you have cited are the result of discussions between the social partners. It's their choice. If I had taken the initiative to change those figures in one direction or another, you would have criticized me for not respecting their decisions. This is – and I think I know that my colleagues have done the same – a faithful, complete and complete translation of the agreement of the social partners. They can obviously be asked questions about their choices. This is your responsibility. But as far as I am concerned, I cannot change the figures obtained under the agreement with the social partners. Moreover, I do not intend to do so, nor does the government wish to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u52	Minister Clarinval, we spoke yesterday about the one-off premium for self-employed workers, but I have not yet received an answer to my question as to why more detailed measures have not been taken. Indeed, there are a lot of self-employed people who have been incredibly difficult and still have a hard time. The premium proposed now applies to anyone who has been granted the right to bridge long enough. Those are companies that had to close down and had no choice. There are also companies that did not have to close down, but decided and they have also been granted a bridging right. Other companies have chosen not to close and have continued despite all the difficulties and there is also a group of self-employed who, despite the mandatory closure, had more left at the end of the month with the right of bridging than when they were working in normal circumstances. It is therefore our conviction that a little more fineness in the support measures is needed, including, for example, the one-off premium that is now being proposed. It should focus on those they really need. There are indeed a lot of self-employed people they need, but there is also a number of self-employed people who really do not need the premium. For the sake of understanding, I am aware that this is a minority, but I would like to ask why no finer measures have been taken. Minister Vandenbroucke, the wage standard is now being released. Mrs Moscufo mentioned that Minister Dermagne said that there is no majority today to change the law on the wage standard, but that he is doing so in a different way now, namely through an KB. In fact, the wage standard is now de facto released. It is also no coincidence that none of the Open Vld is present in the hemisphere. After all, this is a trick to reduce the loss of face for Open Vld. However, the coalition agreement was clear: the wage standard is maintained and the Open Vld swore expensive oaths about it. The party pays a very high price for the prime ministership in this government. De facto, however, the wage standard law is undermined by a KB. Well, that makes sense. That part of the coalition chord is gonna go to hell. The importance of the wage standard for our employment, especially for the most vulnerable in our labour market, will thus be put under pressure. The past has taught us this in detail. That is why I would like to know the impact of releasing the wage standard on our social security. How big is it estimated? This is not without importance, if only because social security is becoming less and less a matter for the social partners, and increasingly a matter for the public authorities that increasingly needs to match deficits. I would remind you of the statement by the Secretary of State for the Budget yesterday that the margins are running out and that the deficit is running out very quickly. It is not all without importance that we can have an assessment of its impact. The release of the wage standard puts pressure on employment and provides more benefits. What is the impact on social security or do we sail blind here? Don't we have any figures on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u53	Mr Anseeuw, very quickly, because we have already raised these issues yesterday. You return each time with the self-employed who would earn more thanks to the bonuses and the bridge than if they had a normal activity. I don't disagree. Graydon estimated that at the end of the month, 3 % of the companies eventually benefited from a better situation thanks to the combination of regional aid and bridge rights. We've more or less identified these companies. They're mostly frikots. Some frikots cumulating the take away may have had a slightly better situation than in normal times. Graydon evokes up to 3% of the self-employed. On the other hand, if there had been no bridge law intervention or regional bonus, more than 60 per cent of the self-employed would have been in a difficult situation. There are still an estimated 20% in some sectors, including Horeca, companies that are still at risk of bankruptcy today. Always coming back with those 3% frikots, who may have pulled their pins off the game, it's vexatious. Frankly, your chorus is starting to piss me off. We have targeted the measure of 500 euros net for the self-employed, since we condition this premium to six months of right bridge over the seven months, i.e. between October and April, at the heart of the period when almost all the self-employed were closed, in any case those that were to be closed. It was the beginning of the third wave, remember? Flexibility began gradually in April. They must therefore have benefited from a bridge or a double bridge for six of those seven months. Targeting more is impossible. We have really targeted the self-employed most affected by this crisis. I gave you the numbers yesterday. In memory, 97 000 independents will no doubt benefit from this complement of bridge law out of a total of more than 200 000 independents who, at one time, have benefited from a bridge right. Less than half of the independents who were entitled to a bridge right. Thus, the self-employed who suffered most during the crisis and during the period from October to April, during which many sectors were closed, are well targeted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u54	Madam President, I would like to refer to everything that was said yesterday in committee, where we had a good debate and where my colleague, Mr Dermagne, who is now unable to attend, has addressed a number of issues which are being raised again. You give me a bit of an incentive, Mr Anseuw, by asking me what the impact of the wage standard on social security is. If you really want a correct answer to that, I will put my hat on economics. Economists always answer such a question from what we call a general equilibrium model, a general equilibrium model. There are different effects, first-order effects and second-order effects. If gross wages increase, it is good for social security, because there are more social contributions coming in. That's a mechanical first-order effect of a raise. This is good for social security, because there are more contributions coming in. If a wage increase is possible with an instrument which is only partially parafiscally taxed, then of course there is a less strong effect. The premium that we are making possible here, for example, would have a contribution of 16.5% for social security, which we thought was important. That 16.5 % is of course less than the regular rate, but it is still a contribution of 16.5 %. I would almost say that the more companies and sectors there are that grant that premium, the better that is for social security. In that sense, if you still want to give it to the design, you are welcome. The more such contributions are granted, the better that is for social security. That is the first order effect, but an economist will of course say that there can also be second order effects. What, in particular, is the evolution of employment? Of course, employment itself also contributes to social security, because employment determines the mass of wages. We can discuss this for a very long time, but I will not go into it further now. Overall, excessive wage increases are bad for employment. Conversely, if there is a deflationary development, where surrenders to wages or the decline of wages on productivity developments have a negative impact on purchasing power, it is also bad for employment. There is therefore no simple answer to this dilemma. However, I would like to stress that it is a sound principle that wages can share in the overall development of prosperity. That healthy principle, if properly applied, normally also leads to rising and not falling income in social security. We are now creating a special instrument here, temporary, in particular a premium, which we are now debating. It is very important that, if that premium is paid, 16.5% of social contributions are applied to it. So, again, the more premium, the better that is for social security in a first order effect. We can discuss this for a very long time. I would like to conclude as follows. After all, there is social dialogue. There is, of course, a system of wage standards, in which we deliberately create a number of margins. However, we assume that employers do not do crazy things in their businesses, but use their senses when they negotiate. We don't have to totally protect them from themselves. In normal good social dialogue, at sector and company level, there is a balance that is not detrimental to companies, otherwise the question arises where employers are. I am therefore giving a very general answer, Mr Anseuw, because I do not like to leave your question unanswered, but I think it is the correct answer. For the rest, I would like to refer to the debate in committee, in the hope that the debate will no longer be extended.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u55	Gentlemen, thank you for your answers. Minister Clarinval, you may find it annoying that for over a year now, not only with you but also with your colleagues, I have been advocating finer measures. You actually confirm in your answer my point that there is indeed a small group of self-employed people who receive support, whereas they do not really need it. No one can be happy about that, no doubt. If I ask you each time why you did not opt for more sophisticated measures, you may be annoyed by them, but I do so because it seems that aid measures are being maintained which are not sufficiently fine-meshed, resulting in inefficient use of expensive public funds. You may find it annoying that I keep knocking on that nail, but I do so out of concern for employment in our country and for social security for our country. We have unique social protection, but it is under pressure. Then you can't blame me for asking you a few questions. You are suggesting that we could not do better and that measures could not be more finer. That is a debate in itself, of course. It's the first time I've had that answer in over a year. It might be an honest answer. That's that. However, I believe that we should be able to do better in 2021. Minister Vandenbroucke, as far as the effect of letting go of the wage standard is concerned, this is about different things, of course. You say first of all that if many contributions are paid, more resources will be entered into social security. That's right. But of course, much more is happening here than that. What is happening now, i.e. moving away from the wage standard law to pay additional wages in the form of a consumer cheque on top of the wage standard, is a precedent. Previously, these kinds of cheques were always fitted within the wage standard. Now it is on top of the wage standard for the first time and so it is a precedent. There is no precedent without precedent, there is no precedent. That door's been pushed open, and it's not closing anymore. You don't mind, from your convictions. Minister Dermagne doesn't mind either. If I ask him questions about this in committee or here, he is very clear. He is therefore speaking on behalf of the government. It is very strange that Open Vld, the government party which, by the way, supplies the Prime Minister, is not present at the discussion, because here one of their main points in the coalition agreement is being thrown overboard. The importance of this precedent cannot be underestimated. It is not just about the impact of the premium on social security. Nor do I assume that this premium is just going to reduce employment. However, the principle of releasing the wage standard will, of course, make it much easier for new steps to be taken in the same direction after the first step - which is always the most difficult one. Then the secondary effects will indeed have much more to gain, and that is particularly regrettable. You can't estimate the impact today. Well, that makes sense. Colleagues, I'd like to warn you and the government anyway. What is happening here is not without value. It is not a unique fact, not a one-off premium. That bounty is the harbinger of much more than that. This is also evidently the intention of the Minister of Work himself, who, on behalf of the government, said that, as far as he is concerned, the wage standard law should be amended and put on hold. In the meantime, your party chairman has said so, Minister. That just leaves the question of when. However, the step has already been taken, because there is now a text on this subject for approval. Of course, this cannot be accepted, because we are going in the wrong direction. The government prides itself on wanting to increase its effectiveness to 80%. The government prides itself on wanting to create an asymmetric labour market policy to meet the specific needs of the different regions. Here happens, at least for Flanders, just the opposite. We know what will eventually happen: employment in our country will be under pressure, because wages are rising too much on top of wage standards. It is an important political fact that the wage standard is now being released. We also know who will pay the bill. That is the region that has been paying the bill for financing more benefits for many years. That's the Fleming. We really thank you for that. In a letter to Minister Dermagne, the Flemish Government also made clear the needs and the federal keys in which direction to turn, so that Flanders can properly activate its job seekers. Minister Dermagne still does not give home on the questions of the Flemish government. This is another step in the wrong direction, and we cannot approve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u56	Madam President, I would like to return to three aspects. Minister, as far as the independents are concerned, I do not share your position at all. Indeed, you put them all aside on the assumption that the situation of all the self-employed as a complement was simple, which could therefore justify not taking into account their difficulties. Personally, I believe that some self-employed individuals are in an extremely complicated situation in connection with the covid-19 crisis. It would therefore have been fair and correct for the government to take into account the concrete, probably finer, realities of the self-employed as a complement, and especially those who face major difficulties. It is not because one is independent on a supplementary basis with a salary that this wage is high – far from it – and that one should not continue to pay for the investment, depending on the type of activity. As for the maternity allowance, the adoption allowance, the foster parental leave and the birth allowance, I am not at all clear when you tell us that this is the choice of the social partners. Not at all! For me, it's the government's choice. It is a choice that penalizes families, single-parent families and especially women. We are opposed to this government's choice of this small increase compared to the increase in the cost of living for those affected. I will conclude by saying that I am waiting for the next round, for example the collective labour agreement on the minimum wage. We'll see what happens in the next few days. We will see whether or not the government will respect what has been designed in the context of discussions of a social agreement related to the IPA.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u57	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u58	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2070/10) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2070/10) The bill has 69 articles. The draft law has 69 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u59	Annex V.Part 2.124 • 33 Marco Van Hees (2070/11) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 14/1(n) • 34 Marco Van Hees (2070/11) • 35 Marco Van Hees (2070/11) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 36 Marco Van Hees (2070/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u60	The discussion of the articles is closed. To be held at a later date: - the vote on amendments and articles; - at the request of the Vlaams Belang Group the divided vote on Articles 34 to 41, 42 to 52, 54 to 55 and on the whole. The discussion of the articles is closed. Will take place later: - the vote on these amendments and the articles; - at the request of the Vlaams Belangroep, the split vote on Rules 34 to 41, 42 to 52, 54 to 55 and on the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u61	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Reuter who refers to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u62	Madam President, this draft law is a transposition of a European directive and concerns audiovisual media services. We think not only of traditional TV, but also of video platforms, streaming services such as Netflix and YouTube, social networks and so on in the present times. The draft law seeks, among other things, to regulate a number of issues relating to messages and videos which could incite hatred and harm the moral development of minors. However, there is no precise description of what incites hatred or what harms or harms the moral development of minors. Of course, our group has nothing against the need for minors to be able to benefit from a certain amount of extra protection, but against what exactly will we protect them? What is or is not harmful to the moral development of minors? Who will decide what is or is not harmful? The same applies to messages that would incite hatred. Unlike calls for violence, which is absolutely unacceptable to the Flemish Interest Group for the sake of clarity, inciting hatred is a much vaguer and wider interpretable description. While one person may regard certain content as hateful, this is not the case at all for someone else. Whether or not something is hateful depends on how the viewer of this content interprets this content. To some extent this can also be linked to, for example, political preference and philosophy of the pastor. Moreover, the label hateful or inciting hatred is all too often used to silence dissenting voices. Where it is the managers of video platforms who will have to assess the content and take action against the alleged harmful content, there is not only the risk that the assessment of that content may be influenced by the personal preferences of that reviewer, but also that that assessment may be influenced by the economic interests of the video platform service for which that reviewer operates. When content is assessed and rejected on criteria other than objective and neutral, there is a real danger of censorship, based on the judgment of a non-neutral and non-objective judger. It is therefore a restriction of freedom of expression, as provided for in the Constitution and in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. One must be able to express free opinion in this country, even though others experience it as shocking, disturbing or offensive, except for the calls for violence, of course, as I said earlier. Since this bill opens the door to a non-neutral and non-objective assessment of content, i.e. a form of censorship, the Flemish Interest Group will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u63	Mrs Van Bossuyt is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u64	Madam President, Mr Gilissen, we have already discussed the question raised at the committee meeting. The intention was to transpose European legislation into Belgian law without any gold-plating and additions, since it is a federal leftover power with regard to the media in the Brussels Region. For this reason, we have chosen to keep the wording used by the European legislator for concepts such as inciting hatred or protecting the moral development of minors fairly general, taking into account the variety of interpretation that can be given to it. A discussion of these concepts is certainly not appropriate here. That is what I am actually answering to your question. Once again, the draft text has followed the approach of the European legislator.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u65	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u66	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2014/6) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2014/6) In the light of changes in the market situation, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of this Directive in the field of audiovisual media services and amending Directive 2010/13/EU on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in the Member States concerning the provision of audiovisual media services (Directive 2008/1808 of the European Parliament and of the Council) in the light of a changing market situation.' The title in Dutch was changed by the Commission to "draft law transposing Directive (EU) 2018/1808 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 amending Directive 2010/13/EU on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in Member States concerning the provision of audiovisual media services (Directive.audiovisual media services) in the light of a changing market situation'. The bill has 46 articles. The draft law has 46 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip121x.u67	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. Let me remind you that the naturalization vote will be closed at 4 p.m.
