ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u2	By e-mail of 10 May 2021, submitted to the Conference of Presidents of 11 May 2021, the Deputy Prime Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health asks to add to the agenda of today's plenary session: - the bill on measures to manage the VOCID-19 pandemic and other urgent measures in the field of health care, Nos. 1929/1 to 8. By e-mail of 10 May 2021, submitted to the Conference of Presidents of 11 May 2021, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health asked to add to the agenda of today's plenary session: - the draft law on measures to control the COVID-19 pandemic and other urgent measures in the field of health care, Nos 1929/1 to 8. The Health Committee adopted this bill on 10 May 2021. The Health Committee adopted the bill on 10 May 2021. No observation? Are you sure you don't mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u3	Madam Chair, I am particularly saddened to hear you present this in a rush to tell us that, because the minister is asking for it, we are going to put this piece of Pandemic Health Bill into a knockout today! I am not sure that you remember yesterday's discussion in the Conference of Presidents. I would like to remind you that there was no consensus on the inclusion of this bill today in plenary and that the entire treatment of this bill in the Committee on Health has been totally unacceptable. There has been – I will not go back – a series of misunderstandings on the organisation of work, which is an important point, as well as on the substance of the case. There is reason to render unacceptable treatment as envisaged by the minister in the rush. It is all the more incomprehensible that there is all of a sudden this will to pass quickly in an emergency when what is essential, what is it? It is a law that retroactively validates a whole series of choices made in the health management of this pandemic for the past year, a law that, on the go, wants to concretize measures of the same style for the future without any questioning – while there have been more than twenty thousand deaths following the covid pandemic – by sweeping the concertation and even by concrete in the law the will no longer to concert a whole series of health actors when the minister decides it alone. This is an approach that will not allow us to follow this government. This approach is largely problematic when we see the way in which general practitioners, for example, were put on the side and outside the organisation, from the beginning of the vaccination campaign. The minister persists in this direction and wants to sink it into the law. In addition, there is a series of issues on the responsibility of caregivers in vaccination, on the way in which the testing strategy is put on the table and in particular on the lack of consideration, for the most vulnerable, of a more accessible testing (including for the middle classes). To all these reasons, I add a point of method. We received a draft report yesterday at the end of the day. I myself began to write a series of corrections to this report. I have also informed the secretariat that he will have these corrections available to him for this afternoon. It is not possible for me to write the corrections to the report faster, especially since there are a number of sensitive points. We cannot accept this bill being rushed into plenary. There is no justification for such a move. So I cannot accept your request, which obviously comes from the government. I would also like to raise awareness among the partners of the majority government. I think that, as a democrat, you cannot accept this way of doing things. We find ourselves in the same approach as you wanted to do in the pandemic law. We are not at all on an insignificant text. We're on a Pandemic Health Law. However, think that the major players in health care have not been consulted on this text. If even this does not hit you and you find that everything is going well, then continue pushing to impose the agenda of this health law today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u4	Madam President, like Mrs Fonck, I must indeed insurrection on the substance and form. First of all, on the substance, it is sure that it is not with this emergency health law that we are going to fight the virus. We have been taking ineffective action in this Parliament for a year. What would have been necessary was to learn the real lessons of this pandemic and to be able to take effective health measures. This is far from the case, because this bill will only confirm a series of ineffective measures taken in recent months. On the form, the urgency has been requested, but already in committee there has been a forcing in relation to the agenda. There was no agreement to deal with this already on Monday, but it was still done. However, there has been no request for an oral report, nor has there been an urgent request to present it here. There is no consensus either in the Conference of Presidents. We do not agree that it should be put on the agenda as well. It is not respectful of the procedures in force.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we have just discussed it in the group. The report has been approved in purely procedural terms. In the e-mail that was delivered to Members yesterday at 6.15 p.m. asking for comments on the report, there was no mention that this had to be done before 10.00 p.m. today, if I am not mistaken. This means that it is also technically impossible, in my view, to put this item on the agenda. After all, the report has not been adopted. That is why I would like to object in advance to the fact that the procedures here are clearly misappreciated. What happens if a colleague wants to supplement the report at 6 p.m. or even tomorrow morning, because he has that right? So I don't think it's technically possible. Secondly, and I will be very careful to express myself, I have heard in the corridors that the majority colleagues also express some surprise at the manner in which the minister concerned works. I have once been a happy part of the majority, in which one has to act in a group, all the understanding of that. However, there is an expression about jars, water and cracks. I think the government should pay attention to the discontent of the majority's colleagues. That's their responsibility. Secondly, one can also abuse a majority. They also referred to the pandemic law. That could happen here, too. At such a moment, of course, they provoke a counter-reaction. That counter-reaction is that the opposition has some regulatory possibilities. Then we're threatening to escalate. Hence the collective question to the majority to consider whether they want to go down that provocative road, which is what it is all about, and to go up against the escalation. Then there is the possibility that the Minister's attempt to move very quickly will have the opposite effect. He and the majority must be aware of that. I say that with a great sense of realism.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u6	Madam President, I will be brief. On the one hand, there was no consensus in the Conference of Presidents. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as President, you allow the plenary to consult on this matter. On the other hand, I would like to know whether the report is okay, if not, we are having an endless debate without an object. We started with some head start to wish everyone a pleasant evening, whether in the context of Rerum Novrum or not. So let's be practical.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u7	Thank you, Mrs De Block. I agree that the report can still be submitted. In the circumstances, I note that there is no consensus among the members and that we cannot change our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you all know that the draft law has acquired urgency. It is a matter of real urgency, but I also hear what is being said here and what is being said about the Rules of Procedure. We hope that the decision not to put it on the agenda today, in which I can agree if everything is not yet ready for the report, will not lead to us going into the same discussion here again next week. It is still an urgent draft law and we should be able to start the discussion next week and proceed to the vote. I hear some of my colleagues here saying that it is not possible to have that discussion today, but it is actually being addressed a bit here in the speeches. Let us take a thorough look at the debate and the vote next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u9	Madam President, I have no problem working like this. However, I wonder whether there can be no sleeve attached to it. The day is still long, and if it can be agreed that the committee can adopt the report in the course of the day, would there be a theoretical possibility of adding the draft to the agenda, for example as the last item of the afternoon meeting? That is a question I would like to ask you, because that seems to me theoretically to be a possibility if there is urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u10	Madam President, of course we can invent fifty thousand solutions. In any case, when the majority wants to go to forcing, it is always extremely creative, if I may. I think I made a number of comments earlier. Frankly, do this by speeding up all of a sudden... I don't know if you're measuring the incredible pressure you put on the services of the House. During the first reading of this text, the collaborators of the Committee on Health were forced to produce reports and send them in the middle of the night, all because, obviously, you had done the back-planning to make sure that it would fit for a second reading on Monday, two days ago, so that the text could be brought to plenary today. This is again the same pressure placed on the services of the House for the second reading report. At first reading, we were given four hours to correct the report. Do you think this is decent? Do you find this decent, my colleague? I don't think so. No doubt you're not going to say it because you're in the majority. But, frankly, if we were to get out of the party a little bit and try to be a little honest about a decent job, both on the democratic level and for the services of the House, I think everyone would get out of it. Madam President, to return to the proposal that has been made, I find it unreasonable. Really not! But the majority can obviously impose on us today by a vote – I was not born of the last rain – putting this text on the agenda. This will of course be your eminently political choice on this subject, and it will be an eminent break in view of both the substance and the form of this text and, as I say again, the way in which the first actors involved, namely caregivers, have been largely ignored in the consultation on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u11	Madam President, my reading by yesterday's Conference of Presidents was that there was an objection to the proposal because the report was not yet ready. I interpreted the speech of the N-VA group leader in such a way that the agreement was that if the report were there and it was all right, we could raise the issue. If a second reading has been requested and the report is not formally ready on the banks, I would be happy to honour the appointment as I have read them. In that case, the proposal of the leader of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is a correct one. My suggestion would therefore be that if the report is not ready, which seems to be the case for formal reasons, we will move on next week and not have a procedural debate here. On the other hand, I am counting on the loyalty of the opposition to deal with the issue at that time and vote on it next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u12	Madam President, I just wanted to say that Mr. De Vriendt does not seem manageable in the sense that we are here in plenary and not in the process of re-reading the report. There was no consensus. I think Mrs Depraetere's proposal is reasonable. It is a bill on which, I believe, everyone will still work on the content and propose amendments in plenary next week to improve this text, on which we do not agree. Let us do the right thing and wait for the comments on the report! Let's fix this to next week!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u13	Madam President, apart from any reservations, I would like to point out that if there is no report, it simply cannot be put on the agenda. We're sitting here talking about nothing. There's no report. There is therefore no possibility of an arrangement, not even by majority. It cannot be decided by majority that there should be no report. It can be decided by consensus that there should be an oral report, but it cannot be decided by majority that the idea of reporting should be put aside. There's no report. There won't be any today. So there will be no arrangement today. Point on the line and the rest we will see in the future when there is a report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u14	Madam President, I can hear the comments on both sides. Having said that, I sincerely believe that wisdom requires adherence to the Rules of Procedure and a decent opportunity for the groups to make the comments they want. Everyone also knows very well – and I say this to the opposition – that this matter must be dealt with as soon as possible. It is therefore not a question of going into force, and certainly not against the Rules of Procedure. Only this issue must be dealt with quickly, with, of course, the help of the opposition – whose contributions must not consist of dilatory manoeuvres, but rather be constructive and nourishing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u15	Mrs Fonck, I give you the floor for a final statement on this subject. Then I'll close.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u16	Madam President, I will be brief. In committee, we have tabled a dozen amendments. This shows that we do not resort to dilatory manoeuvres. There are simply substantive issues. Secondly, with regard to the opinion expressed here by the representatives of the majority, I agree with my colleague De Roover. Without any connection, it is impossible to enter the point. For the rest, we will see next week's Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Fonck. I conclude that there is no consensus on this. We can therefore begin the agenda without adding this item.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u18	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Bert Wollants, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u19	Madam President, I will be very brief, even if this is an important change for two reasons. Firstly, our country had to transpose the European directive and secondly, this draft modernises the gas law since the idea is to gradually switch from underground fossil gas to a low-carbon gas (biogas, biomethane) and, eventually, even carbon-free. This bill is in line with the energy transition. Biogas and green hydrogen, which are CO2-neutral, are expected to decarbonize the sector. The technical possibility is now very real and it was necessary to adapt the legislative framework to this new reality. It's a step in the right direction. For us, the objective is to electrify as much as possible and to use green hydrogen for specific purposes such as heavy transport and industry. In the meantime, mixtures must be possible and constitute a positive step for the energy transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u20	Madam Minister, I agree that the draft law before us brings the gas bill into the 21st century. Mr Cogolati already indicated the intentions and developments: the transition from fossil gas, which is still ubiquitous today, to low-carbon gas and eventually carbon-free gas. The draft law is therefore more than merely a transposition of a European directive. A few weeks ago, Mrs Pas did not support the urgency of this draft law, because the deadline for transposing the said directive, which dates from 17 April 2019, expired on 21 February 2020. You heard me right. This was followed by infringement proceedings against Belgium, not for the first time. The opposition has no responsibility in this regard. The European Commission's reminder was that the Directive had to be transposed by mid-March 2021. That's why you had to intervene, Madam Secretary. You took this opportunity to make two amendments to the Gas Act, in addition to the transposition. Firstly, you changed the legal definition of natural gas. In view of the new realities, the new definition rightly also covers biogas, methane and mixtures with hydrogen, among others. It is interesting, and appropriate, that mine gas should now be included in the new definition, allowing the mine gas captured to be reduced by injecting it into the natural gas transport network. Secondly, you provide greater legal certainty and administrative simplification by allowing the transport of biogas, gas from biomass and other types of gas on the basis of individual natural gas transport permits. The Flemish Interest notes that there is a great deal of interest in the gas sector in gradually becoming carbon-free. Next Monday, the study on the future role of gas in the Belgian energy system will normally be presented. This study may contain recommendations for the government. We have repeatedly expressed our interest in the role of hydrogen through Mr Van Lommel. Mr Van Lommel has also tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject. Today it is technically possible to mix hydrogen in the pipes and turbines of administrator Fluxys. Whether hydrogen should be strictly reserved for specific applications, such as for industry or heavy transport, may still be debated. Madam Minister, I understand that there will be a specific bill for a legal framework on hydrogen. It will not be strange to see the European hydrogen backbone becoming more concrete. Mr Van Lommel will undoubtedly have the debate with knowledge and skill. The hydrogen investment wave is increasing in proportions. Our Flemish and Dutch ports are emerging as the hotspot of whatever could become a green hydrogen economy, which is an important element in the transition. The development of a hydrogen economy has also paved the way for the federal relaunch plan, which includes €50 million of investment for the industrial value chain in this respect. Apparently, the government wants to produce turquoise hydrogen in gas-fired power plants by 2025, a nice description, and thus capture CO2. Weirdly enough, that plan was broken down by the CEO of the research institute EnergyVille, who described it as follows. I quote: 'As it is put here, technical-scientific nonsense'. I can't help his words. According to him, no one expects turquoise hydrogen to be used on an industrial scale by 2030. According to the CEO, this is not yet commercially available technology. That was just a comment. We will certainly approve the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your comments. This is indeed about the transposition of the European directive, with which we are too late. Unfortunately, there is nothing I can do to change that. That is a fact. At the same time, we are ensuring that our gas law is in line with what is already a reality today. For example, biogas is already present in our pipes today. As both speakers have pointed out, we must bring the gas law into the 21st century and prepare and shape the future. That future is then about the energy transition and about the combination and integration of molecules on the one hand and electrons on the other. Think of the pending projects in the ports of Antwerp and Ghent. We also report extensively in the newspapers on how hydrogen can work with offshore wind energy and shape not only the switch to renewable energy, but also our country's security of supply. In this sense, the draft is only a first step and I hope to come up with another legislative and regulatory work this year to help prepare our country for the hydrogen economy with projects that we will be developing in the context of the relaunch plan. Madam President, the best is yet to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u22	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u23	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1902/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1902/3) The bill has 9 articles. The draft law has 9 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u24	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u25	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Leen Dierick, Malik Ben Accour.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u26	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1650/5) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1650/5) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur, Mr Thierry Warmoes, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the N-VA Group supports the call for a simplification of the energy bill to the government. The complexity of the energy bill has often been raised by several parties, including us. However, we still have some reservations about four aspects of this motion for a resolution, which we have also raised in committee, but which have not been taken into account. That is why I would like to refer to them here in order to show a little more support for the text before us. My first point concerns cooperation with the Länder, because the proposal nevertheless contains a number of contradictions in timelines and working methods. The timeline is very tight, especially when there is also a need for fruitful consultation with the Länder. The second request, which refers to the summer of 2021, which is very soon, leaves very little room for the consultation with the Länder requested in the first request. That is the contradiction between the first and second requests. It's gonna have to be real quick. Where the simplified invoice is a fact, request 6 requires a further consultation with the Länder in order to better align the energy bill with market developments in the context of the inclusive energy transition. That seems to us to be a rather bizarre way of working, as we have already pointed out in committee. We wonder whether it is not better to discuss the simplified invoice and the updated invoice with the Länder in a global exercise. In this way one can immediately arrive at an invoice that reflects the desired result. It is better to work in consultation immediately, so that the simplified invoice takes into account everything that exists on the market. A second aspect concerns request 4C, the free paper invoice that the customer should always be able to request, and the request 4D on the additional digital information that can be converted to paper on demand. We have already pointed out in committee that such a provision could have a negative impact on customers who are receiving a discount today, because they are working only digitally and very consciously. That advantage for purely digital customers should not be undermined, either because they indirectly co-pay through the transfer of the additional costs for the free paper invoice; requested by other customers, or because the provider anticipates that their purely digital customers will also request a free paper version at a given time. The author of the motion for a resolution replies that it is up to the government to choose whether digital customers can retain their advantage, but that does not completely remove our concerns. We hope that the Minister will provide sufficient guarantees for the digital customers. A third point concerns the clear terminology specified in request 5 to be used in the invoice. However, the Committee also discussed the languages in which the invoice should be presented. There was much less clarity about the intentions of the majority in this area. Even though the committee's clarification is that it is intended that very little changes will be made in this area, it will continue to wait for the results to be drawn up. One final point concerns the request 7 for accompanying measures to overcome the digital divide. That is a very noble request, which we absolutely support, but such requests require time to be effective. Because the resolution proposal with a very tight timeline calls for rapid digitisation of many aspects of the energy bill, there is a chance that in the period of the realization of the 4C and 4D requests and request 7 the digital divide will widen. That's contrary to request 7. The applicant says that we can solve this with the possibility of a free conversion of all aspects of the basic invoice and all additional information to paper. I've already talked about those side effects. We will support the motion for a resolution because we support the objective, but we still have reservations about certain practical transpositions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u28	Madam President, I thank Mr Len Dierick for this important initiative. Energy bills are often long, complicated with the essential elements of understanding in small footnotes or on the back. It is important for consumers to have confidence in the market and to be able to be sufficiently and properly informed, transparently through a simplified invoice, legible both in form and substance. Energy is a real basic need. Access to cheap energy and, consequently, transparency in the energy market is a priority for us because no one can be left behind. That's our motto. What also seems important to us is the attention given by this text to the fact that the market is evolving and that it is important to take this into account. Indeed, we would be crazy to ignore the accelerating energy transition – and it is happy. Care must be taken to ensure that all consumers remain equally active. The invoice must therefore be able to evolve in order to reflect these changes in the market, e.g. smart meters, so-called dynamic contracts, electric cars, etc. In simplifying the energy bill, we therefore call on the market to take account of these developments. Hence the request for consultation with federated entities and all stakeholders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u29	Madam President, Mrs Dierick, thank you for the work done. We have been saying and saying for a long time that our energy bills are too complicated. Fortunately, this will change thanks to the demands that we are defending through this motion for a resolution to simplify our invoices. As co-signer of this text, I would like to contribute with you, Mrs Dierick, as well as with other stakeholders, to make our invoices more understandable and readable. It is in the interests of all of us as consumers, for each of us must be able to understand them at a glance. This is all the more necessary because six out of ten Belgians would not have one or more headings on their energy bill. This was demonstrated by an iVOX study conducted in April 2019 at the request of the Belgian Federation of Electric and Gas Companies (FEBEG). Moreover, only one in five Belgians correctly estimate that part of the total amount of their bill relates solely to their electricity consumption. It is therefore hardly surprising that, according to this study, eight out of ten Belgians consider that their bill should be simplified. As I have already had the opportunity to say, it is clear that the multiple mentions in it – and they are more than a hundred! – imposed by the authorities on suppliers complicate things. We know that the headings in question respond to several European provisions – legal, decretal and executive orders – but it must be noted that they are made illegible to the consumer. According to the King Baudouin Foundation, these difficulties would be felt mainly among disadvantaged and more fragile groups, as well as people in situations of energy insecurity. However, the lack of clarity of these invoices increases the risk for precarised households that they may mislead the administrative maze and not assert their rights, for example by contacting the Energy Mediation Service. In addition, the complexity of the bill is linked to that of the energy market, due to the involvement of several players as well as to numerous fees (taxes, taxes and contributions), both at the federal and regional level. As the Managing Director of FEBEG has repeatedly stated, "a balance must be struck between the readability of the invoice and the usefulness of certain information for the consumer". Both the consumer and the suppliers have an interest in a readable and understandable invoice allowing for an accurate and one-time payment. Indeed, as the adage says, too much information kills information. It is in this context that a whole series of concrete recommendations aimed at simplifying the bill were drafted in 2018 by the Platform for Combating Energy Insecureness managed by the King Baudouin Foundation. It is on this basis that this motion for a resolution has been built that we are happy to co-sign and to vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Dierick, of course we will approve your resolution. For many years, the Flemish Interest has wanted to simplify the energy bill. This is important for families, especially the vulnerable ones, and even for suppliers. I don't want to be a game breaker, but in recent years, it has been the procession of Echternach. Not a nice procession, but a bit of a crooked one. In addition, some appeared to be the reincarnation of Jean-Michel Saive at the height of his ability. A little historical excursion. In the previous legislature, the Platform Against Energy Poverty delivered several recommendations to the then competent Flemish and federal ministers. The cabinet of the then competent Federal Minister for Consumer Affairs, a certain Kris Peeters, meanwhile fled politics, then assumed a coordinating role. Together with the then regional energy ministers, it took steps to reach a political agreement. In October 2018 it was finally there. It was announced that suppliers would have to switch to a standardised, simplified two-page invoice in the course of 2019, possibly with additional information on an online platform. "In the course of 2019" is actually wrong. No, ladies and gentlemen, the simplification had to be completed by 1 March 2019. March 1, 2019, you hear it right. As a result of the dissolution of the federal government at the time, the agreement was not transposed into practice. Mr Muylle, the female interim pope in the government of current affairs, responsible for Economics and Consumer Affairs, did not immediately have much ambition to dynamise this dossier. Mr Marghem, then Federal Minister for Energy, did not immediately give home either. In fact, Mrs Marghem has always stressed that, as the Minister for Energy, she was only indirectly involved. Her presence in October 2018 concerned only a geste de gentillesse et de collégialité vis-à-vis Mr Peeters. Mrs Muylle made a very clear reference to the Minister for Energy during the last days of her presidency, when I was examining the state of affairs by means of an oral question. He had to make the necessary legal adjustments, Jean-Michel Saive at his best. The ping-pong sport, a frequently practiced sport in political environments of this country. In the meantime, of course, Europe did not sit still, how could it be otherwise? The 2019 EMD Directive, with common rules for the internal electricity market, also determines the position of consumers, and that is a good thing. We will shortly be transposing this fourth electricity directive, as it is sometimes referred to, Madam Minister. Eventually, the simplification of the energy bill, albeit with a short passage, was incorporated into the federal government agreement. Fortunately, because also at Flemish level, Mrs Ingels, paper is very willing, but it doesn't always provide immediate action. I would just like to quote from your Minister of Energy Demir's reply of 1 September 2020 to a written question from a Flemish colleague of interest who surveyed the state of affairs in the Flemish Parliament. Mrs Demir said: "Once a federal government has been constituted with full powers, I will contact the Federal Minister for Consumer Affairs to transpose the agreement." Mrs Ingels, I really do not think that Mrs Demir jumped on her horse after 1 October and galloped to the cabinet of the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection, Mrs De Bleeker, to encourage Vivaldi to continue work on the reform of the energy bill. At least I don't know about that. Fortunately, we have our ever vigilant colleague, Dierick, who is now asking the government, together with a whole series of Vivaldi colleagues, to reach an agreement with the Länder as soon as possible to simplify the energy bill and to make arrangements to ensure that all changes in federal and regional regulations will come into force on the same date, in order to prevent consumers and suppliers from facing successive changes to the invoice. My venerable Vivaldi colleagues ask that this agreement be implemented effectively by the summer, by adjusting the rules so that suppliers can deliver a simplified invoice by 1 January 2022. Mrs van der Straeten, with this resolution you will have a nicely detailed model, of one double-sided A4, with a whole series of principles to take into account when amending federal legislation, I suspect that this is the electricity law and the gas law. The Flemish Interest hopes that this new simplified invoice will soon be a fact. It is important that the resolution also asks the government to give consumers the freedom to opt for a paper invoice, because not everyone has access to a digital environment. Of course, our group also believes that electronic invoicing should be encouraged. The Flemish Interest obviously fits for an energy invoice in a variety of languages. We are in favour of clear technical terminology and clear communication, but those who are permanently resident in that country are expected to learn the official language in the foreseeable future. We are also looking forward to the revision of the global consumer agreement, because I understand that the government is putting or positioning its homework on simplifying the invoice. We shall vote in favour of this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u31	Madam President, I have heard the various speeches and especially the last one on history. I understand all the humor with which Mr. Ravyts brings things. In the previous government, it was clearly the CD&V that had the hand and it is not a practice to encroach on a colleague's skills. But fortunately, Mrs Leen Dierick, whom I thank again here, kept this text close to her and led it in a strenuous manner to a very interesting result and very enriched by the parliamentary debate – with Mr. Ben Achour, who is the second signatory to it – on a motion for a resolution. There is still a lot to be done, but the broad guidelines are there. Energy bills contain dozens of legal obligations, in accordance with the various European, federal and regional regulations, making it even more difficult for the concrete work to be done. It was essential to simplify the elements of the invoice so that the consumer could receive an understandable document in which essential information occupied the most important place, i.e. the information which concerned him first. This will allow the consumer to make a easier comparison between different suppliers and thus choose the supplier who offers the best service at the best price. It should be noted that energy suppliers have also been advocating for a simplified and understandable bill for years. The Vivaldi majority worked on amendments. As these amendments were tabled, the text therefore provides for a set of principles that must now be taken into account – I was talking about guidelines – in order to adapt federal legislation. This is an invoice limited to a page A4 double-sided with a front limited to the essential data so that the consumer can easily determine at a glance what amount is due to the supplier or vice versa. Other aspects that we believe are essential, such as the need for the digital bill to allow the consumer to use it free of charge, while continuing to receive documents in paper form, if he wishes. This text, unanimously voted in the Committee on Energy and Climate, calls on the government to take several important initiatives, which I would like to stress. First, the government is asked to reach an agreement with the federated entities. Of course, it's not a big deal! We can hope that this agreement will be concluded quickly, knowing that much of the bill falls within the competence of the federated entities. Similarly, consumers and suppliers – who are faced with successive changes in their energy bills in the light of developments in federal and regional legislation – must be able to read them simultaneously. This would be a significant step forward, which would avoid an unintended change in the document received in accordance with federal and regional legislation. Applying this agreement by next summer, adapting regulations with suppliers, so that they can send a simplified invoice to their customers no later than January 1, 2022, is a great challenge. We support this effort, but we will see if it can take effect within the time limits set out in the motion for a resolution. As regards the length of the invoice, that the front allows the supplier and the consumer to take a first glance at what is due would be an advantage. Such clarity would effectively simplify the performance of the contract. I have already spoken about encouraging the consumer to opt for the digital bill, while still being able to receive the paper document. I would be remiss if I did not conclude my speech without pointing out how important it is to remain attentive to terminology clarity. To this end, a test should be developed with the sector, aimed not only at legibility, but also at the terminology homogeneity used in invoices. In a logical and orderly manner, consumers must also be able to consult all aspects of their bills and to solicit organizations and services, such as social services and CPAS, which could help them in the event of misunderstanding and difficulty. The text provides, moreover, that the consumer may choose to receive all this additional information free of charge on paper. Here's a nice file to execute quickly! I hope that the government will be able to make it effective and, above all, to reach an agreement with the federated entities. That, in my opinion, is the whole issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u32	Madam President, I reviewed my energy bill yesterday. It was four pages, fully printed on the front and back. I had to look at them very carefully to determine how much and when I had to pay or if I would get anything back. We all agree that our energy bill needs to be much simpler. Today, it contains no less than 100 mandatory indications, so that consumers can often no longer see the forest through the trees. The invoice is far too long, very complex and very difficult to understand for many. It has become, as it were, a completely illegible document. The awareness of the need to do something about this has been with previous ministers and colleagues from Parliament for many years. They've been asked to do something about that before. In October 2018, a first important step was taken, with the agreement between the then Federal Minister for Economics and Consumer Affairs and the various ministers responsible for energy. The commitment to take steps to simplify the invoice was recorded. Unfortunately, this agreement has not been implemented, but a great deal of preparatory work has already been done, which now gives us the opportunity to move quickly. Mr Ravyts, I will not speak out about who played ping-pong with, I know nothing about sports and I do not want to miss the ball. Above all, I want to look ahead and realize things here. That is why I took the initiative not to lose the 2018 preparations. With this proposal for a resolution, I want to ensure that the simplified energy bill can quickly become a reality by 1 January 2022 at the latest. In concrete terms, we ask the government to conclude an agreement with the Länder as soon as possible, preferably by the summer ahead. Mrs Ingels, that is effective rather quickly, but a lot of preparatory work has already been done. So we don't start with a blank sheet. With goodwill, which the ministers have already shown, the deadline can certainly be met. We do not want to waste any more time: the simplified energy bill must be completed by 1 January 2022 at the latest. That would be four years after the first agreement. Waiting longer doesn't seem like an option to me anymore. In addition to the rapid introduction of the simplified energy bill, we also lay down some important principles on the form of the simplified energy bill. We note that the invoice may be up to one double-sided page, in order to avoid too long an invoice. The consumer must see the essential information on the front of his invoice at a glance. Additional information that is not on the invoice must be made available to the consumer in the digital customer area, or the consumer may, if he so wishes, request that additional information also on paper. We want consumers to be able to use a digital invoice and a digital customer zone, but consumers who do not want to can still choose to get the invoice on paper. For example, we want to take into account the digital divide, as we realise that not everyone is still on the digital train. That is why we have included accompanying measures in the resolution to close the digital divide. We also understand and share Mrs Ingels' concern about the digital consumer discount, which should certainly not be reversed. However, we leave it to the Ministers to work out a concrete solution on this. Not only should the invoice be simpler, it should also be drawn up in clear language. We therefore agree with Mr van Vooruit's proposal to use, together with the sector, a clear language test for the technical terms in the invoice. Finally, the invoice must also be future-proof. After the new simplified invoice is in place, the consultations should also be initiated in order to arrive at an invoice that takes account of market developments, as proposed by Ecolo-Green colleagues. That request was also included in the motion for a resolution. It seems to us best to do this in two steps, otherwise the simplified invoice will take too long. Ladies and gentlemen, with this text, we want to see a speedy switch, so that a simplified energy bill becomes a reality by 1 January 2022 at the latest. We have already done this in committee. It is very nice to note that there is so much support and support. I would therefore like to sincerely thank all my colleagues on the Energy Committee for their excellent cooperation. I hope that this motion for a resolution will once again receive unanimous support. I also wish Minister Van der Straeten every success in carrying out the requests. We are looking forward to further development. It may be a bit weird, but now I am very curious about my first energy bill of 2022. With this resolution, we have moved together a small pebble in the river to simplify the energy bill. Hopefully we can move another step together to keep the energy bill affordable. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u33	Madam President, before I arrived here in the Chamber, I was active as a teacher in basic education, changed my name to Ligo last week. The people in my class were all low-lettered. It was my job to work with them on this low-literacy and strengthen them in their role as employees, as parents, but also as consumers. This is very important in order to be able to function independently and participate in society. A permanent part of my lesson was to look at their own mail and learn how to understand. Those energy bills weren't easy. How much do I have to pay by when? Where's the account number? Do I have to pay extra now or do I get something in return? What am I supposed to do if I can't pay now? I've seen all possible energy bills pass through there. This resolution on the simplification of energy bills is much needed, not only for Ligo's students, but there are many more consumers who do not understand their energy bills or are difficult to understand. A study by the European Commission concerns more than 40% of consumers. That's a hell of a lot of them. For families in energy poverty, who have difficulty in paying their energy bills, this share is much higher. The liberalisation of the energy market has led to an explosion of various energy contracts and a mess of tariffs and price formulas. Citizens are actually lost in the jungle of the free energy market. They are especially vulnerable people who literally and figuratively pay the price for this. It is therefore a good thing that a simplified invoice is finally being prepared. The PVDA Group will therefore support this resolution. This resolution is a step in the right direction, but it is only a small step. The energy bill doesn't fall by making it more understandable. This proposal does little to change the fact that one in five families is living in energy poverty today. This figure has therefore increased significantly as a result of the corona crisis. We therefore call for the energy bill to be reformed itself, for the VAT on energy to be reduced to 6%, for the costs of green electricity to be removed from the invoice and for the social tariff to be extended structurally to all those who have difficulty in paying the invoice. It is an illusion that greater transparency in the energy market, which is the aim of the resolution, is sufficient in itself in the fight against energy poverty. In 2018, the Koning Boudewijn Foundation's Energy Poverty Platform identified six fundamental challenges in simplifying and understanding the energy bill and also issued fifteen concrete recommendations. The first version of the proposal only calls on the government to reach agreement with the Länder to simplify the energy bill. How exactly this energy bill should be simplified leaves the text entirely to the government. Fortunately, in the proposal before us, requests 4 and 5 describe how the energy bill should be simplified. However, we call for all 15 recommendations of the Platform against Energy Poverty to be implemented. These recommendations are pertinent, effective, feasible and easy to implement. We do not see any reason why the government should not be able to comply with this. Mr Warmoes has already tabled an amendment to this effect in committee, which was unfortunately rejected. That is why today we are putting forward this amendment again so that all the recommendations of the Platform against Energy Poverty can be fully implemented and no one falls out of the boat. I therefore call for the amendment to be approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u34	Madam President, we consider every motion for a resolution and every legislative proposal that we put to the vote to be important, and that is what we keep saying. But this is a very important text, because every family in the country receives an energy bill, without exception. For each family, part of the family budget goes to the energy bill and 20% to a very large extent. Measures are therefore needed. In this respect, we welcome Mrs Dierick's move. Which citizen still understands his invoice? Those are very few, I think. I'm going to go over our extra splash with the introduction of the language test. It may sound crazy, but that can also contribute to an understandable invoice. One can have a very clear and clear invoice, but if one doesn't understand what it says, it doesn't make much sense. Both Network against Poverty and the King Baudouin Foundation asked for attention and formulated some ideas. We are happy to give it to the Minister to do something with it. After all, consumers quit because they don't understand their energy bill, and they don't even open it anymore and throw it away. From the energy bill it goes to letters of formal notice, then to a payment plan. If it doesn't work out that way, a collection agency will even be called in. In the Ombudsman's report, we learn that more and more energy suppliers are using debt collection agencies, even if that is not a solution for people in that situation; it only makes things worse. It's often said that words matter. In this case too, words can matter and cause people to drop out and not know what to do. That is why attention to the message and the text is very important to us. I am also pleased that colleagues have acknowledged this and that we have included the introduction of a language test in Mrs Dierick's text. Colleagues, I think we are taking good steps; the government is now in the process of making our energy bill more transparent. That is what is needed. The energy sector is in danger of becoming more complex in the coming years, for example through flexible contracts, even if they are a good thing. Yesterday, on 11 May 2021, we unanimously approved in committee the ban on dormant contracts. This, too, is a good step towards a simple and transparent market, to which this motion for a resolution also contributes. I have no doubt that the Minister will take the requests to heart. We will, of course, be happy to approve the text with our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u35	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I wanted to thank the authors of this text, but also the colleagues who amended it in committee, so that my group fully subscribes to its final version as adopted in committee. As has been said, what is at stake here is a simplification of energy bills, combining readability and transparency for the benefit of all consumers and in particular the most vulnerable audiences. It is also regrettable that the simplification of the energy bill took so long to emerge and become a reality, referring to the observations already made in 2018 by the platform to combat energy insecurity of the King Baudouin Foundation. Nevertheless, this motion for a resolution has been submitted to a broad consultation, from Test-Achats to CREG and the Regions. There will have to be an agreement between the federated entities so that this simplification becomes concrete for consumers as of 1 January 2022. Nevertheless, there is a will to ensure that, at the end of the summer of 2021, the various federal and regional laws and regulations are coordinated. We are also pleased that this agreement will be presented to the House as provided for in this motion for a resolution, as soon as the next parliamentary re-entry in September. This is really fundamental because our Parliament must be properly informed and be able to monitor the follow-up that will be given to this agreement. The motion for a resolution also guarantees the possibility of obtaining a paper version of the simplified invoice, as has been said. It also shows pragmatism, providing that this simplification will have to be reviewed in the light of the energy transition and that this simplification will have to be accompanied by a real fight against the digital divide. I will conclude by saying that, in view of the ever-increasing legislative and regulatory inflation in our country, it is really essential to ensure that every citizen is treated equally in terms of the readability and understanding of all administrative documents, including the energy bill. I would even say that this is a societal progress, as important as the energy transition itself, because everything that reduces inequalities is still a step forward. That is the main reason why my group will enthusiastically support this motion for a resolution. However, we will be extremely attentive to its follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your hard work during the previous and current legislatures and in recent months around this text. It is with great ambition that I take over from you and I will do my utmost to live up to the ambitious timing of the resolution. It is true that preparatory work has already been done. So we should not start from a white leaf, we can continue to work on what has already happened at the federal level and at the level of the Regions. What binds us is that clear, clear and affordable energy bill. I would like to thank my fellow Members for not throwing everything into one heap, but working on a target-by-objective basis. It is not because something does not say in this text that it is not a concern either of my colleagues or of myself. I look forward to following up on the progress of the text with you, so that we can continue to work together on strong consumer protection and on strong energy consumers, but also on a leading supplier market. That's very important to me. We have rightly put the focus on the consumer, the consumer who receives his invoice and needs to be able to understand it. That has long been one of the King Baudouins Foundation's questions. However, we also need strong suppliers, who can do their job in a good way in the blurring of the market. Certainly the aspect of future proofed, what our energy bill will look like in the future and suppliers will behave in the future, is an aspect on which we will discuss further over the coming months. I would like to thank you very much for your work. I'll take over and I'm sure we'll talk about this again soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u37	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u38	The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u39	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Sophie Rohonyi, François De Smet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u40	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Katja Gabriëls, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed this proposal very thoroughly in our committee. It has also come a long way in committee: there were two readings and at the second reading we held hearings and the proposal was fundamentally amended. As we have always stressed, we are also in favour of the principle underlying it. The proposal aims to ensure that siblings have a fundamental right of access. Our group supports that siblings should not, if possible, be separated from each other. It is of course very important that children, especially in precarious circumstances, can maintain and maintain their family ties. Children of the same family can be a great emotional support for each other. They have often experienced the same thing and therefore know exactly what is really going on in a family. Good contacts therefore benefit children of all ages. Our group also stressed this in the Flemish Parliament, even before we started discussing the legislative proposal in the Chamber. However, it cannot be that the proposal would have the effect that siblings could not be placed because they cannot be placed together. The best interests of the child must always be at the forefront and it must therefore be absolutely avoided that children should be forced to live in dangerous or inappropriate situations. The previous versions of the proposal also included a number of other issues, such as the procedural incompetence for children from 12 years of age and even for children under 12 years of age. We have always stressed at first reading and in the discussion of the proposal that we thought that was a very ill-thought-out idea, but this was also reflected in the hearing and the many spontaneous opinions we received in response to the proposal. We are therefore pleased that the proposal has been amended on this point and that this part has been removed. The debate on this can always be held later and more global, although we are not in favour of it. There are a number of points I would like to clarify and I would also like to put two questions to the main applicant of the proposal. Firstly, Article 2 states that the court pursues the same rules for all siblings. According to our view, this does not mean that siblings must necessarily stay with the same parent on exactly the same days. It is important that the residence scheme allows the brothers and sisters to maintain contact with each other. It may, however, be the case that there are differences in the arrangements, this of course in line with the specific situation and with the desirability. Secondly, Article 3 states that all siblings at any age have the right to maintain personal contact with each other. I would have liked Mrs Rohonyi, or one of the other proposers, to have made it clear that these are adult brothers and sisters with underage siblings and underage children among themselves, but, of course, not adult siblings among themselves. I have already raised that point in committee. The text talks about "at any age" and that is a different idea. The definition of the new Article 387e-cies does not apply to this Article, since it applies only to the new Chapter 3. I do not believe that this proposal should also regulate the relationship between adults. These are indeed rights arising from, among other things, the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Mrs Rohonyi, perhaps you can confirm that again. Finally, Article 387fj refers to the parents, the foster caregivers, the court and the competent authority, who seek to maintain personal contacts between the child and each of his siblings. In our view, this should include the guardian. However, that term is not included in the text unless it would be implicit. Perhaps you could clarify that, too. For us, it is important that these questions are clarified, but in substance we will support this proposal, of course, after all these adjustments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u42	Madam President, we welcome this bill positively. First of all, I should like to thank my colleague Rohonyi and my colleague De Smet for the pugnacity and openness they have shown in this dossier, as well as for the perfect cooperation that has taken place between the various groups in committee with a view to its completion. This is important because, so far, the right to family privacy had a more vertical dimension – parents-children, grandparents-children – than a horizontal dimension, namely a recognition of siblings. This is not new, it has been a subject on the table for more than 20 years in Belgium, so much so that our French neighbours legislated in 1996. For the past few weeks, there has been a lot of talk about 1996 laws in this chamber; it is not the same. In any event, we are late in this debate. Many studies have shown that relationships between siblings, siblings, are necessary and provide a solid foundation for building up as a child and facing the adversity of life. Among them, they offer support, great emotional security and psychological support. Conversely, separations – and this is not anecdotal, statistics indicate that more than 35% of families are either single-parent families or recomposed families – can be experienced as a real trauma. This text therefore offers two essential and significant advantages. First, the principle that children who are part of a sibling, when they are minors, have the right not to be separated. As mentioned in the text, this right will be exercised subject to the interests of each of the children, an interest which would lead to another solution. Secondly, if they were to be separated, a right to maintain personal relations between them. This right is now automatic and is intended to realize the necessary emotional relationship that must exist and preside over any sibling. In concrete terms, the aim will be to avoid double punishment in the face of the hazards of life faced by children: divorces, disappearances of children, placement of children, family recompositions. The authorities will therefore have a positive obligation, since it is not contrary to the interests of these children. Even when a child is placed in an institution, for example, he or she preserves a right to maintain a relationship with his or her siblings. It must also be recognized that there is a practice in a text that many magistrates and family judges, in particular, are already trying to apply. This bill has another force, as it responds to family developments. It is not only the "legal" and "biological" bond that is enshrined, but also – in the case of recomposed families and that of other family settings – the emotional bond. In 2021, it was important to take it into account as well. This notion of brother and sister will now be widely heard. As I said, it is not conditioned by a biological link or administrative formality, but extended to education in a common household. Finally, and this is not the least aspect of this text, since a right is nothing if it cannot be protected, it can be protected by a magistrate. Indeed, we will offer children 12 years of age and older the ability to ester and have their right not to be separated recognized or the right to preserve their personal relationship with other members of their siblings. In short, this text is an essential development. And I would like to thank Mrs Rohonyi for the work she has done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u43	Madam President, this bill, about the brothers and sisters, is very important. Of course, the Flemish Interest supports the principle. However, the proposal now before us, namely the legal anchoring of brotherhood and sisterhood in the Civil Code, will not provide a solution. The proposal is not feasible in both factual and legal terms. In practice, this proposal will not bring about any progress. First of all, the question arises as to how much Belgium needs a federal law that prohibits the separation of siblings in principle. The bill does not answer that question. According to Article 22a of the Constitution, each Belgian authority is obliged to respect the best interests of the child as a first consideration in any decision affecting the child. Subsequently, the Decree of 18 January 2018 on the Code of Prevention, Assistance to Youth and Youth Protection, which provides that all authorities must ensure that siblings are not separated. The inclusion of §3 in Article 374 of the old Civil Code is therefore no more than confirmation of an existing conviction and practice and is in fact superfluous. Next, article 375a of the old Civil Code already includes the right to maintain personal contact with the child by those who have a particularly affective relationship with the child. Of course, that also implies brothers and sisters. The addition of the reference "brothers and sisters have the right to personal contact" is only useful for those brothers and sisters who have no affective relationship with each other. The description "specially affective tyre' is clear and does not need to be clarified. When the Civil Code was introduced in 1804, the legislators showed mastery by restricting themselves to concise, general provisions. Now an additional category would be added. The legislator may not be following the road in the right direction. This is already apparent from the difficulties in defining siblings, for which new terminology is used, which will cause major problems of interpretation. Are purely biological brothers and half-brothers and sisters really subject to the provision? How does it work with kids who have the same donor? The question also arises as to how a family judge can keep plusbrothers and plus sisters together now that he is not competent and also has no material legal basis to impose a residence arrangement of a pluschild with a plusparent. I come to the practical elaboration of the proposal. There is a poignant practice of problems of removal and youth protection. Few foster families can handle the placement of multiple siblings. This problem is not addressed and shifted to the Länder. The proposer of the proposal formulates it as follows: "The Communities must ensure that there are enough places for these children." Everyone knows that the budgets for this are non-existent. The waiting lists in care have been dragging on for years now. anchoring a principle in the Civil Code will not change this. Moreover, in the foster care file, the Council of State has already considered that the federal government would exceed its powers if a condition were to be attached to the measure or the form of assistance of the family placement. In the Council's view, the power to introduce such a condition is bound by the Community's competence to introduce or organise that measure or form of assistance itself. So the question arises as to why there is no conflict of interest. The legislator also risks bringing an action for annulment before the Constitutional Court on the grounds of a breach of the division of powers. In the initial bill, brothers and sisters were given the opportunity to take legal action. That was a refreshing thought that was bound up with hooks and eyes, but for the Flemish Interest Group that was the reason why we should not abstain from the first text voted on. Now there is only a purely theoretical anchoring in the Civil Code that none of the parties can enforce in court. However, the author of the bill was clear in committee. The right to act in law is close to her heart. The draft law submitted by the Commission therefore seeks to guarantee that right in respect of the two main rights arising from that brotherhood or sisterhood. The representative of the Minister of Justice confirmed in the Committee on Justice that the renewal of the right of minors under 12 years of age to take legal action is not significant, in particular in view of the existing Article 1004/1. "The ratification of the new law will, according to some, pose practical problems. The speaker can understand these arguments, but they are not insurmountable difficulties, as the Council of State has pointed out. It will take an effort, but it is worth it, because it concerns children who have no one else except their brothers and sisters. It is essential that this brotherhood and sisterhood be safeguarded. Efforts will therefore have to be made, but it is worth anchoring that right." The hearings covered poignant testimonies of adults who, as a child, are not involved in this procedure. Nothing was clarified during the committee about the relationship between the existing right of hearing for the children and the initial procedural capacity foreseen in this bill. With the amendments tabled, this hot iron was not only pushed forward, it was completely covered up. Today there is an empty box with a very nice red bow on the table. That is a pity because this could have been a progressive law. That is why our group will abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u44	Madam President, I will be brief. Since it was my colleagues who followed the debates in committee, I wanted to thank the authors of this proposal, which seems obvious to me, even though it took time to get there. I would like to say that my group will of course support her.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u45	Madam President, I should like to congratulate Mrs Rohonyi on this initiative and on the patience she has had to bear and even support the amendments that have been made repeatedly. It is important to thank the experts as well. At first reading, we were given the warning from the academic world that perhaps, by giving judicial competence to children, we had gone a step too far. We have then had the wisdom to hold hearings. They have led to the text before us, which I would call not a compromise but a good legislative text, which is essential for a principle as important as the right of brothers and sisters not to be separated. One has to understand what this is about. It is about a right established in the best interests of the child, but that right cannot be claimed by the child himself. It is the environment of the child, and the judge in the last instance, that is to ensure that this right is guaranteed. That is why it is not an absolute right. It is not possible in all circumstances to ensure that siblings who are underage are not separated. It may be necessary, in the interests of the child, in the interests of the family, for example in the case of divorce or placement, to separate brother and sister, however unfortunate that may be, but often the child will be able to agree to it himself in such circumstances. If the best interests of the child cannot be realised by not separating brother and sister, then it must be possible at least to realize it by giving brother and sister the right to maintain personal contact, even if the parents or placements in a foster family are geographically far apart. I also think that we have done well to define the notion of brother and sister for the purposes of this right, which concerns both the family, the institution, the foster family and custody, broadly as children who are raised in the same family. That is a reference to Article 222 of the Civil Code on education in the same family. It may well be that one does not have a blood bond, but that one did have the privilege of growing up in the same family. I would stress once again that when one grows up in the same institution, that cannot lead to a qualification as a brother and sister, because an institution is not a family and therefore there can be no band like brother and sister in an institution. However, children who are siblings in the broad sense of the word have the right, when placed, to reside in the same institution as far as possible. Mr Rohonyi, I think this is progress for the children and progress for the families. As far as possible, we have allowed the best interests of the child to prevail. It is too early to give children a legal capacity. That's obvious. What is not, however, can still come. Between today and tomorrow, many bridges can be built.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I very much welcome the prospect of the adoption of this bill. As a matter of fact, I myself had been confronted with it as Minister for Youth Aid in the French Community. On several occasions, I have seen very difficult situations where, obviously, it was in the interests of the children of the same siblings to stay together, but where this possibility was extremely limited. Everyone was mobilizing. In this regard, the actors involved in youth assistance should be commended: social services, the administration of youth assistance and even the law firm. So everyone was on deck, and good will was not lacking. It was necessary to move heaven and earth to ensure that the interests of these children to stay and grow together were respected. This was not always possible, but we must welcome the efforts being made by the field to achieve this. I had been marked by this experience. With Laurette Onkelinx and the Delegate for the Rights of the Child, I had therefore organized a symposium on the subject in the Chamber in November 2018, which was entitled: "How to ensure the maintenance of the link within the fratries?" So it took a little time to get there. You will understand without difficulty how pleased I am at the outcome of the bill defended with great talent and tenacity by our colleagues Sophie Rohonyi and François de Smet. This result is the result of a long-term effort to create rights. If we want them to be respected and effective, so that all fraternities can benefit from them, the Communities will have to develop much more the structures necessary for the implementation of the rights we recognize through this proposal. The work that has been done by the Committee on Justice, where I do not sit - it is my colleague Vanessa Matz who participates - seems to me to be a good job. Hearings were conducted. This has been taken into account. A detailed opinion was delivered by the Council of State. This was also taken into account. Amendments have been tabled and adopted, which has led to a broad consensus in the committee and, I hope, in our House today. The recognition and protection of the bonds between the brothers and sisters is in our view an essential step forward. The right to preserve these ties, except when they are contrary to the interests of the child, is fundamental. Consideration of links from new forms of family cells is also an important element, as is the preferential designation of a single guardian for all siblings. The withdrawal of the right of action for children under 12 years of age from the proposal is a wise decision. Not because we would be opposed to it. Not at all! But because this deserves more thought, given the lack of unanimity among experts on this issue, which is, it is true, within a broader framework than the present proposal. But the reflection, very clearly, also deserves to be continued. Now, as I said, there is still a need to put in place the necessary infrastructure to ensure that the right granted to brothers and sisters is realized, in good conditions, both in situations of placement and in situations of separations and divorces before the family courts. The role of justices of the peace in guardianship will of course be equally important. To a large extent, it is true that once this law is passed, it is no longer up to us to play at the federal level, but mainly at the Communities. What they will or will not do will depend on the concrete scope of our work. I therefore call on the Minister of Justice to mobilise the Communities to do what is necessary. I also urge each of our colleagues to convey the message to their colleagues in the federated entities in order to put all the necessary pressure on their respective governments, to ensure that this law is fully effective and that never again a child is deprived of the right to live with his brothers and sisters when his interest does not oppose it. You understand that: the cdH Group will be very happy to support this proposal from our colleagues at DéFI. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have difficulty concealing my emotion today because when I asked for priority consideration of this bill in the Committee on Justice, I was very far from imagining how long the road ahead would ultimately be so long and arduous. I am especially moved because I am thinking of all those children who were waiting for this legislative amendment, all those children who became adults who, during their childhood or adolescence, were separated from their sibling(s) during institutional or foster care. Today, for example, I am thinking of Roberto, who recently wrote to his brother: "I was ten years old when we were separated. You had nine. This was not going well at home and the youth court decided to place us. Since there was no room to welcome us both, we were separated. I felt lonely and helpless. I heard you were sometimes aggressive. I'm sure it would have been better if we hadn't been separated. There are moments of argument between brothers and sisters but when they are no longer at your side, you finally lose a part of yourself." I also think of Lindsay: "Dapa was an alcoholic. Mom was suffering from mental illness. Gradually, I took the place of the parents to support my two brothers. Then comes Dad's death. I get an apartment via the CPAS but my two brothers are placed at our aunt's. I only saw my two brothers once a month. This separation has been atrocious. We had just lost our father and I was losing them too. I needed them and they needed me, not just for the sharing of laughter, the reminders of good times, screwing her up. I was reassuring them, too. I've adopted maternal behaviors. Taking on this role gave a real meaning to my life, a source of hope, and then, suddenly, I had no reason to live. This period was torture." These children experienced the tragedy of being placed, being uprooted from their homes because their parents had died, failed or violent, or because their parents divorced and decided to separate them. It was then that they experienced another tragedy, that of being separated from their brothers or sisters, from the stable, secure and trusting relationship they needed more than ever. In fact, we can see that siblings have become, over the last few decades, a stabilization cell. It is a function that the nuclear family no longer necessarily fulfils. Today, the relationship of siblings survives parental separations, which cannot be overlooked when we know that one couple in two divorces, but also that one couple in two separates before the five years of their last child. It is precisely to avoid this tragedy that my group tabled this bill twenty years ago. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it has been twenty years since we had noted this legal vacuum in Belgian law, which set aside this horizontal family relationship, contrary to what the law provided for in relation between parents and children, but also between grandchildren and grandparents. Today, when a child is in danger, when it is necessary to remove him from his family environment, a separation between brothers and sisters can take place. This separation may be temporary, in order to quickly resolve the problem that prevents the reuniting of siblings, in particular the material impossibility of placing siblings in the same institution or in the same foster family because of the too many children to be placed or because of the diversity of ages. But it certainly cannot last for years, as is the case today. This causes trauma to children that they will bear in them all their lives. These traumas are experienced by too many children. A survey conducted by SOS Children's Villages found that 77% of children in care did not grow up with one or more members of their siblings. In 2017, a working group launched by psychologist Stéphanie Haxhe, which I would particularly like to acknowledge, but also by lawyers, social workers, sociologists and educators, published a white card to support our bill, but also to point to inconsistency. In fact, the federated entities enshrined the law deriving from the fraternity bond, but the federal government did not enshrine the same link. It was therefore time for our Justice Committee to look at our updated bill in the light of developments in the law, practices and needs of youth assistance. As is well known, an opinion of the Council of State and numerous hearings followed. They were accompanied by written opinions, which, with a few requests for clarification, almost all underlined the significant legislative progress that this text constituted. We then took care to respond to it on several levels. First, siblings are now defined in a separate chapter from the previous chapters on parental authority or foster care, as requested by the Council of State in its opinion. This sibling is broadly defined in the sense of children raised together in the same family and who have developed a particular emotional bond. This definition allows us to include brothers and sisters who have a biological connection, adopted children but also half-brothers and sisters, children from family recompositions, children from lesbian or homosexual couples, children who have grown up together in a foster family or under guardianship – to answer the question of my colleague from the N-VA. It is therefore social siblings who will enter our Civil Code by granting rights to biological children but also to all those who have grown up together and developed strong social ties to preserve for their good development. Secondly, the rights deriving from these sibling ties will be expressly mentioned in our Civil Code. First, there is the right of siblings not to be separated except in the case of placement in IPPJ as a result of an offence described as a crime. But there is also the right to maintain personal relationships at any age. Finally, the exception becomes the principle, which must be applied on a case-by-case basis in the best interests of each individual child. The aim here is really to prevent some members of the siblings from being forced to stay with another who, for example, would be violent towards them or to meet the needs of a brother or sister with special needs because of his disability, health or education. As has been said, we originally wanted to add to these rights the right to assert them personally in court. This was, however, not to mention the strong objection expressed by certain actors on the ground heard in committee, in particular some youth judges, some teachers in family law or the association Pleegzorg Vlaanderen. These actors had pointed out the specificities of minors, the risk of exploitation by the adults around them or the fact that they were involved in conflicts which should ultimately be preserved. For its part, the Council of State had pointed to discrimination which would result between children who could assert their sibling relationship and those who could not assert the relationship between them and their grandparents. That is why, in order to give this text a chance to pass, we have had to make the choice of abolishing this right to be tried while knowing that every minor retains the right to be heard for any decision affecting him or her, as provided for in the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. In the long term, however, a reflection must begin on the capacity of minors to take legal action, guaranteeing them the assistance of a neutral, independent and specially trained lawyer in the defence of minors, especially when the extremely difficult social situations faced by these minors have made them particularly mature and responsible. In the end, it is a matter of trusting the word of the child. For the rest, I am particularly pleased that in principle the brothers and sisters will no longer be deprived of the only remaining landmarks, of the bond that builds them to the present, but also and above all for their entire adult life. They will no longer be deprived of this source of emotional security and psychological support so important at their age. They will no longer be deprived of a fundamental component of their right to family life, enshrined in the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, but also in the European Convention on Human Rights, or in our own Constitution. I would like to extend my warm thanks to the office of the Minister of Justice for his cooperation in drafting our amendments, but also to colleagues who have understood that the issue of the rights and interests of the child is far beyond partisan divisions. I would also like to commend the work and perseverance of SOS Children's Villages, but also of the General Delegate for Children's Rights, Kinderrechtencommissaris and other actors on the ground, such as Stéphanie Haxhe, who has been campaigning for years for the consecration of this sibling link in our Civil Code. Finally, I am thinking of all these children who have become adults who have had the courage to bear witness to their history in recent months, in order to support our text, in the media, in committee, or by contacting me directly. They did so to prevent other children from being deprived tomorrow of this link so important for their good development. Today's vote is therefore the result of a very long parliamentary work. But it is also and above all the beginning of a work that will have to be done on the ground to force the authorities to actively seek solutions, to support and train the host families in siblings and the possibility of caring for the brothers and sisters together, but also to increase the reception capacities. The Flemish Minister for Youth has understood this since he has already announced that he wants to include joint care of siblings as a criterion guiding the future childcare policy in the context of youth assistance. Today I call on the Wallonia-Brussels Federation to follow this example. It is practical to adapt to the law, not the other way around. It is necessary to get out of the policy of means to empower itself in its policy, even more so when the best interests of the child are at stake. I have listened to the arguments of the only party that has not heard our text support. I am quite shocked to hear that he is finally making this issue, too, a Community issue. I understand that regional legislation is sufficient and that this link of siblings should not be enshrined in our Civil Code. I invite this group to review the opinion of the Council of State, which is extremely clear on this issue. I quote: "The federal authority is competent to adopt the proposed scheme without it appearing to make it impossible or excessively difficult for the Communities to exercise their powers in the field of youth assistance and youth protection". I also wanted to stress how fundamental the inclusion of this sibling link in the Civil Code is. First, because the best interests of the child must take precedence over logistical, budgetary or administrative considerations, as pointed out by the European Court of Human Rights, in any decision concerning children. But also because it is up to young people to create the conditions for this right, which must be enshrined in a law at the federal level. Colleagues, on behalf of the thousands of children and young people facing extremely difficult social situations, I would like to thank you warmly for your support because this law will protect them. This law will force us not to see them as mere file numbers, but as members of a sibling they need to grow and rebuild.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u48	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u49	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (780/11) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (780/11) The title has been amended by the commission to "proposal for a law amending the old Civil Code with regard to personal ties between brothers and sisters". The title was changed by the Committee to "Proposal for a Law amending the Old Civil Code concerning the personal ties between siblings." The bill has 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u50	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u51	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Dieter Vanbesien, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u52	Madam President, this project aims at an increase in capital and an amendment to the statutes of the International Finance Corporation (IFC), one of the World Bank Group's structures. The minister explained to us in committee that the objective of this capital increase "is to ensure that the World Bank Group remains able to meet the needs of an increasing number of middle-income countries (...) and to deploy on a large scale the solutions of the private sector in all the beneficiary countries". The PTB supports development assistance from the countries of the South, but is this the result of the World Bank's policy and its various components? Not at all! The World Bank, like the IMF, uses the weapon of debt to impose policies that are often harmful to the development of the countries of the South and that often benefit Western multinationals. The same is true for the World Bank and the IMF for this "division" of the World Bank, i.e. the IFC, which specializes in lending to private companies. I will cite a study by the Committee for the Abolition of Improperty Debts (CADTM). This NGO is active against the illegitimate debts of third world countries - and not just, for example, Greece. In a October 2020 study of this NGO entitled "The IMF and the World Bank at the Time of Coronavirus: The Missed Search for a New Image", CADTM pins the IFC on this excerpt: "United Nations, national and independent expert bodies continue to confirm that several projects funded by the International Finance Corporation (IFC), one of the World Bank's bodies, have resulted in serious human rights violations: land grabbing, repression, arbitrary arrest or murder in order to silence protest movements against certain projects financed by the Bank." That is the reality of this International Finance Corporation! Cake on the cake: this bill approves a change in the statutes to protect the veto power of the United States, even though they do not participate in the capital increase. How does the Minister of Finance justify this privilege? I quote the explanatory memorandum: "It is regrettable that there is a right of veto reserved for a single Member State, but the United States considered this change to be a precondition for their agreement on the principle of capital increase". In committee, I asked the minister how he justified granting or maintaining this veto right specifically in the United States. He simply repeated, I quote the report: "This amendment of the statutes was a condition for the United States to accept the principle of the capital increase of the IBRD, of the IFC, which could not be made without the agreement of the United States". Clearly, the minister tells us that the United States is blackmailing and that we are giving in to this blackmail. In any case, it is blackmail that the PTB will not swallow. We will therefore not support this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u53	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u54	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1941/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1941/1) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u55	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u56	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 1075: Gilles Vanden Burre, Evita Willaert, Marie-Colline Leroy, Kristof Calvo, Wouter De Vriendt, Albert Vicar, Catherine Fonck - 111: Jean-Marc Delizée, Marc Goblet, Sophie Thémont, Eliane Tillieux - 894: Jean-Marc Delizée, Marc Goblet, Sophie Thémont - 898: Denis Ducrame, Benoît Piedboeuf, Vincent Scourneau, Caroline Taquin.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u57	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mrs Valerie Van Peel and Mr Björn Anseew, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this text proposes an essential reform that has guided our work in the Social Affairs Committee for several years. I therefore take the floor to defend several aspects of this. This reform which we are going to vote for, which concerns the period of failure in the event of an independent person's illness, will result in a structural improvement of his protection in such circumstances. This subject seems to us to be of great importance because, whatever the status of workers, we believe that they are entitled to the best possible protection in all cases of illness, hence the structural nature of this text. I will begin with a reminder of the discussions that have taken place in recent years on this subject. Many positive reforms were also undertaken, as they sought better protection and a more balanced status. We must remember that at the beginning of the previous legislature, the waiting period for the self-employed was 30 days. To this end, a sick self-employed person could not receive compensation for incapacity for work during the first 30 days of his illness. It meant either that he fell seriously ill – which we do not wish anyone – or that he continued his work despite his state of health. In this case, an independent had to manage his business and establishment, even if he became ill. My group found this situation extremely problematic. We have always pleaded that this period of failure should be reduced. This was done in the middle of the previous legislature, with a decrease to 14 days. Then, at its very end – during the day-to-day business – my group, joined by others, had defended a text proposing a reduced period of seven days. The proposal was complemented by two important considerations. First of all, if the doctor diagnosed a serious illness – involving an incapacity for work of more than seven days – compensation had to be granted from the first day. For us, this represented not only an important step forward, but above all a just and necessary one. In addition, a "control mechanism" was in place, which did not allow for retroactivity of the allowance in the event of incapacity for work. We put it in place as part of a compromise reached at the end of the last parliamentary term. This text has been voted on and we obviously supported it. We were at the base of this one, with others. We have been back on the ground and it must be noted that, for many months or even more than a year, the self-employed have unfortunately been consulting their physician late in the event of illness. This is an observation which has been objected to by a letter from mutualities which shows us that, on average, delays are between ten and fourteen days. From the moment of the first symptoms, the self-employed person will, on average, visit his doctor after about ten working days or even two weeks. Therefore, from the moment the physician found the disease and consented to incapacity for work, in the absence of retroactivity, some independents were experiencing an unfair system. In fact, since they were going late to the doctor, they were not entitled to the allowances to which they could have been entitled via their mutual, for their incapacity to work. We really wanted to find a solution to this problem in the Social Affairs Committee. I will not go through all the steps that have been the way to the text that we are going to vote on this afternoon. If there is an important element to remember, it is the hearing of the whole sector: the representatives of the independents, or the mutuals. These have written to us several times. Several solutions were on the table, including a total reduction in the waiting period, which is still seven days. We talked about going to zero days, no waiting periods, as for the employees, which is required by my group Ecolo-Groen. Unfortunately, this solution was not perceived, during the hearings, as the main request. So we have evolved towards a solution that currently allows retroactivity, although we obviously encourage all independents to go to the doctor as soon as possible, from the first symptoms of a disease. This does not mean that you must be unable to work, but at least consult your doctor. There is still a need for pedagogy in this area, and I count on the associations representing the independents to encourage them even more to visit their doctors from the very beginning. What we are going to vote this afternoon will allow fourteen days of retroactivity, which means that the self-employed who go late to their doctor will not be punished. The system will allow them to receive benefits retroactively in the event of incapacity for work. For us, this is a solution that brings much more justice into a system that penalized a number of people. All workers will be entitled to maximum protection against the disease. This text increases protection and we welcome it. The text provides for an evaluation of the entire system in a year's time. The situation will have to be reassessed with the actors on the ground, with mutualities. We are still asking for a further reduction or elimination of this deficiency period, but we will have to assess it in a year's time. Today, the protection of self-employed workers is increased. For us, this was a priority and we therefore fully support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u59	Madam President, even after a sensible second reading, we maintain our comments on this proposal. In part, these are not our comments, but the objections and comments made by the representatives of the self-employed themselves during the hearing. Those comments were also made during the discussion of this proposal by colleagues from CD&V and Open Vld. First of all, the hearing showed that self-employed organisations are not an interested party to the abolition of the career period for self-employed persons. The Minister also stated in his opinion that he was not in favour of this bill, because the government wanted to make an adjustment to this regulation for all the statutes in order to finally implement the alignment between the various statutes. It is therefore strange that the government parties, against their government, are pushing laws through Parliament. This was also evident in the discussion in the committee, in which the hidden criticism of CD&V and Open Vld was audible. It was almost with physical pain that the approval was pronounced. Our second criticism is that this scheme creates a new inequality between the self-employed and employees. With this law, the RSVZ will compensate the self-employed from day 1 onwards, while with the employees it is the employer who, depending on the status of worker or servant, has to pay a considerable amount or the whole first month. Even if the cost of this measure, according to the calculations of the Court of Auditors, was "but" 250 million euros a year, it would have been better to work out a fairer compensation scheme for the workers, because they lose a lot of income in the event of illness, unlike the servants, who have a much better arrangement. We stress once again that the equivalence of the arrangements between the various statutes, as the government had envisaged in its coalition agreement, would have been much better. The time and energy that has now been put into a partial solution was better invested in a global solution. Nor can we get the impression that this bill is mainly a trophy that the French-speaking Greens had to bring in, perhaps because they do not have enough weight in government policy on self-employed people. It is about internal Walloon political games, in which Open Vld and CD&V have to join in grinding teeth. As far as the legal and technical aspects are concerned, we can only conclude that the second reading we have requested made sense. Some additional amendments incorporated part of the opinions of the Council of State and the comments of the Court's Legal Service. Some disturbing dissonances between the French and Dutch texts were also eliminated. This clearly provides better legal texts, in the interests of right holders. In view of our continued comments and considerations, our group will be abstaining in the vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it was a long, very long time. The dossier on the waiting period has occupied the Commissioners present in the Social Affairs Committee for many months or even years. This period between the time when the self-employed person was incapacitated for work and his compensation was still one month under the previous legislature. It was reduced to fourteen days thanks to Minister Ducrame and then, finally, to seven days with an anti-abuse device, a device linked to the date of the certificate of incapacity, which prevented retroactive action. It was not my group's preferred choice but the political agreement that had emerged at the time. Very quickly, we were alerted, in particular by the Intermutualist College, of the negative impact of this anti-abuse system on the ground. The self-employed were the first victims. It was therefore necessary to act. We have asked for hearings and heard from the actors on the ground. They explained to us the humanly dramatic situations they were experiencing. They work sick even with serious pathologies, take risks before going to consult because they are like this the independents. For the most part, it's work first. Finally, two fundamental elements emerged from the hearings, unanimously. No one is asking for the total elimination of the waiting period, but all are asking for the total elimination of the anti-abuse device. It was therefore necessary to discuss at length in order to find an acceptable solution for and by all. This is not yet the best choice for us, but a consensus to limit the retroactive effect of the recognition of incapacity to 14 days from the date of the medical certificate. The choice of fourteen days is based on facts. It's no coincidence. It is based on the reality of the field because an independent person, as I said, has difficulty accepting the idea that he must be incapacitated from work. This is neither lightness nor fraud, but he wants to honour his contract. He wants to finish the work started. He will only go to his doctor at the last moment because for him, again, it is the work, the service above all. It is the very nature of an independent. He doesn't count his hours and goes to the end. We agreed on a period of time that represents the average period of time before an independent person decides to consult his or her doctor. We have also ensured that a case of force majeure can be recognised by a doctor-counsel on the basis of concrete elements; thus, a period of incapacity for work beyond these 14 days will be recognised, in case of force majeure. As I said, this is not the result of the hearings and the will of the MR Group, but we will support this agreement, especially since an assessment of the reform is planned within a year. In conclusion, I sincerely hope that we will be able to close this matter on this reasonable agreement. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Minister Clarinval and his administration for the technical support they provided during the discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has already been said about this legislative proposal. We must recognise that we have come a long way with the legislative proposal. It is clear that a self-employed person who becomes ill is entitled to an invalidity benefit. The period of the career period has, of course, also evolved enormously over the years in the interests of the self-employed. A few years ago, the career period was one month. As of 1 January 2018, this was reduced to 14 days, among others under then Minister Maggie De Block, and at the end of the legislature, the career period was shortened again. The result was a abolition of the care period for sick periods lasting more than seven days, giving the self-employed a benefit from day one. A scheme was then introduced whereby the doctor who certified the incapacity for work could no longer do so retroactively. There was a double reason for that. On the one hand, the self-employed were not encouraged to consult a doctor in the short term, because if one is too ill to work, it is advisable to consult a doctor as soon as possible. On the other hand, the aim was to avoid the possibility of retroactive attestation leading to abuses. We have had a very educational hearing in committee. A hearing serves to listen, to organisations and to the stories that come out. This has shown that self-employed workers are indeed delaying a doctor's visit because they do not want to abandon their case. However, it was indicated that it is also important to note that almost no abuses have been identified since the introduction of the previous legislation. With the legislative proposal we adapt the legislation to both insights. A limited retroactivity of the attestation of incapacity for work is possible, but it is limited to a maximum of 14 days. We do not want the self-employed to delay visiting the doctor for too long. The passion of self-employed people for their own business is something that we as a society reap the benefits of. After all, we must not forget that the workforce of many entrepreneurs is the driving force behind our prosperity. However, this must not be at the expense of their own health. The Open Vld Group therefore supports this change. We are very satisfied with the fact that the legislative proposal ensures that, in distressing situations, a longer retroactivity can also be allowed through an advisory doctor for reasons of force majeure. Of course, we continue to think it is important that self-employed people do not delay their care, even though the passion for their profession is much greater than the physical discomforts of illness. Today, through this bill, they are given the opportunity to seek a doctor within 14 days without any harm to them. It is therefore a good thing for the self-employed, for their health, but also for their business. I am therefore grateful that this proposal has been worked out and our group will support it wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I had co-signed the original version of this bill because it provided a structural solution to the problem of self-employed persons with incapacity for work, particularly in cases of serious illness. Colleagues have recalled the history of this. The original text provided for the commencement of entitlement to incapacity for work benefits at the actual beginning of the entitlement, to be determined by the doctor. Each of you, ladies and gentlemen, has recalled the various stages. Meanwhile, the Vivaldi majority alone has tabled a series of amendments. One of them poses a particular problem to me, since – while this was not the case in the original proposal – you decided to change the text. The consequence is that the self-employed person who goes to the doctor more than 14 days after the start of his incapacity for work cannot be compensated, even if the doctor acknowledges and justifies it for the period preceding these 14 days. However, delays of more than 14 days concern a large number of files of self-employed persons who, above all, suffer from anything but bobos, but indeed from severe and even serious pathologies. I heard a colleague say here that in case of force majeure, the doctor could recognise beyond 14 days. Yes, it can, but clearly it does, because it is no longer an abuse mechanism in place, but a sanction mechanism. Even if this period is recognized by the doctor, it will not be compensated. There will be no payment of compensation for these periods which are recognized as incapacity for work. It's still quite amazing! I hope you give it to me. For us, this represents a very large, unjustified and unfounded step backwards from the original bill. Those who manage the files of the self-employed concerned on a daily basis claim that they did not find any abuse on the part of the self-employed incapacity for work. This has been mentioned many times. In spite of this, you are planning this sanction scheme; I think it should be called that way. The penalty scheme for the period preceding the 14 days applies without even checking that there is an abuse on the part of the self-employed. Therefore, a physician who recognizes this period of incapacity is prevented from being entitled to compensation. The result of the races: the system voted in fine, because revised compared to the original bill, will continue to have a negative impact on many independents. I repeat again: this will have a negative impact on a large number of self-employed people who suffer from the most severe pathologies. It is also somewhat disturbing to hear, on several occasions during the work in committee, that "it is with a view to educating self-employed workers to take care of themselves more quickly". It's kind of like some people thought it was for their own good. It is disturbing to justify this way of punishing the most socially and medically sensitive situations by this objective of education. Personally, it bothered me deeply. For all these reasons, I have re-tabled my amendment both in committee and in plenary today. The latter tends to remove this provision of very clear sanction beyond 14 days and deprivation of compensation despite the recognition of the disease. This is therefore intended to fully support the request of the independents to completely eliminate the anti-abuse device. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that because this has been said repeatedly by the independents and their representatives. I invite you to reconsider this amendment. If it is voted, then I will be very pleased to vote on the bill, as amended by your Vivaldi majority amendments in committee. It's half a way. It is difficult to understand that we have not gone to the end and that we have not been able to make the necessary corrections, especially for the independents with the most severe pathologies. Therefore, if my amendment is not voted, I will not be able to support this bill and we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to welcome the work of the colleagues who have been working on this bill before our House today. DéFI will not fail to support this text. Indeed, for our group, the differences between the status of self-employed and employees no longer correspond to the reality of the labour market, which also generates more and more mixed careers. Social security needs in the face of the hazards of life are identical for all. The health and economic crisis we are currently experiencing is particularly and unfortunately a painful example. It is indeed a very large majority of workers who have seen their lives upset. We are thinking first of those who have been infected with the virus, regardless of their status as a worker, but also of all those who have had to reduce or suspend their activity or, even worse, those who have had to completely abandon it. The elimination of the waiting period for self-employed persons is included in our electoral programmes, for example the harmonization of pension schemes, or a reflection on the differences which still exist too much between the status of worker and employee. They're huge construction sites. We are aware that it is only gradually possible to build a new equality of social rights between workers. That is why every stage deserves to be supported, and certainly the one that is being put to our vote today. As for the question of the risk of abuse raised by some colleagues during the debates in committee, it is, in our view, marginal. The vast majority of self-employed people have no interest in getting sick. On the contrary, they too often tend to work despite an illness or accident, with the consequences that this could have, such as worsening their health. This inevitably leads to heavier care and ultimately a greater financial burden for the federal budget. As far as necessary, I would point out that the anti-abuse rules introduced in 2019 in addition to the transition to compensation after a waiting period of more than seven days did not allow for the detection of abuses. While an assessment of possible fraud might be justified in the future, the time is more and more now than ever for the support of our self-employed rather than for mistrust. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the majority and of the opposition who support this text too, we are choosing greater equality between workers and also that of the self-employed, who aspire more than ever to work calmly knowing that in the event of a health problem they will be better covered. This is a real progress that we are happy to support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u64	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u65	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1075/9) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1075/9) The title has been amended by the Commission to "proposal for a law amending the Royal Decree of 20 July 1971 establishing a maternity insurance and insurance scheme for self-employed and assisting spouses, in order to make the scheme of incapacity for work applicable as soon as the activity is effectively terminated by reason of incapacity for work". The title was changed by the Committee to 'draft legislation amending the Royal Decree of 20 July 1971 establishing benefit insurance and maternity insurance for the benefit of the selfemployed and assisting spouses in order to enable the invalidity scheme to enter into force as from the effective cessation of the activity for incapacity for work'. The bill has 6 articles. The bill has 6 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip103x.u66	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. I suggest that you suspend the meeting and meet with us for the oral questions at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, May 12, 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 12 May 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
