ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u1	Madam President, in order to speed things up, since I have to go back to chairing the Economic Affairs Committee, I would refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u2	Madam President, Mr Van Hecke, the issue of banning a cashless gambling system is a legal issue currently before the Council of State. On 7 February 2020, an application was submitted to the Council of State for annulment of the decision of the Gaming Commission of 26 November 2019. The Council of State has not yet ruled on the matter. For this reason, we must be extremely cautious in the answer to the question, as the risk of damage in the Belgian State is real. In addition to the current legal procedure, account should be taken of the covid pandemic and its related health and economic consequences. Precisely because of these two elements, the Gaming Commission decided on 30 June 2020 to extend the transitional period until 30 June 2021. Given that the circumstances remained unchanged in 2021, it was decided to extend that transitional measure until 31 December 2021 and then until 30 June 2022, in the hope that the State Council had given a substantive opinion on the issue by that date. The Gaming Commission considers it prudent to await the judgment of the Council of State before implementing the decision of 26 November 2019. I agree with this decision. In the meantime, it is being examined whether a regulatory initiative can solve the problem of the cashless system. We hope to be done with this when the Council of State passes its judgment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u3	We all hope that the Council of State will make a quick ruling. That can take a long time sometimes. Should the appeal be dismissed, the Gaming Commission and you will continue to support that prohibition. That seems to me to be the most important thing. We're gonna keep following up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u4	Madam President, Mr Van Hecke, this is a very interesting question. The data on quotas and tolerance margins are currently collected by the expertise network of the College of Attorneys General. This item will be on the College's agenda tomorrow and it will be the subject of a report to be drawn up. Once we have the data, we will distribute it. In the past, I have already replied in this committee and in the plenary that I am not in favour of quotas and margins of tolerance. They must and will gradually disappear in the interests of our road safety. An important new measure is the creation of a national traffic park, which will deal with all minor offences. The composition and capacity of the public prosecutor's office were determined in close consultation with the public prosecutor's office. By the way, the prosecution supports this decision. You know that we have drawn up a preliminary draft law to that effect. This is now before the Council of State for its opinion. As soon as we have this opinion, we will present the preliminary draft in Parliament, after which we will be able to discuss it further with you and your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u5	So, Minister, I asked my question a week too early. I'll reset them in a week or two. I do not know if you are regularly present at the meetings of the College of Attorneys General, which you can and may be a minister, but this will be a little more difficult these weeks. We'll keep following up on this. I am very curious about these margins of tolerance in each of the 14 parquets to know what differences and practices there are, but I will submit a follow-up question in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u6	Dear colleague, it is clear that you and I are following this matter very closely. As you know, the Federal Prosecutor's Office and the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU) are jointly investigating the Denial of Service (DDoS) attack on Belnet. She's still in class. Currently and in the interest of this investigation, it is not possible to provide you with additional information about it. In addition, during the hearings in the Chamber's Committee of the Interior last June, the director of the FCCU and the representative of the State Security stated that there was no indication that the DDoS attack came from a state actor or even from China. At the moment, I have no indication that would lead us to another conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u7	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u8	Madam President, Mrs Verhaert, as part of the entry into force of the new Book 3 of the Civil Code on Goods on 1 September this year, a number of issues have indeed appeared in the media over the past few weeks about how someone can access someone else's property. In the meantime, you will also have read that several messages in the media were not accurate, sometimes even incorrect. On 3 September, a video was posted on the VRT's news site under the heading 'Ombudsperson', which sets out and corrects the incorrect reporting. Your question deals very specifically with Article 3.67. The text of paragraph 1 of that article is clear: "There must always be permission from the owner to enter his property in order to retrieve a business or animal." So it is not that neighbors or others can or may enter someone's garden without permission. What this paragraph does change in relation to the previous situation is that someone's business or animal that has inadvertently ended up in someone's property must be returned. This is the only change. This resolves the legal uncertainty that existed under the old legislation. It didn't say in the old days that this had to happen. If the owner does not return the case or grants his permission to enter his garden, the owner of the case must refer the matter to the court and, where appropriate, apply for compensation. In other words, there is a duty of the owner to return the property or to grant access, but there is no right of access to the property where appropriate. As far as your second question is concerned, Article 3.67, paragraph 3 deals with the fact that access is granted when an unclosed property is unbuilt or unbuilt. This is a very restrictive exception, which has been applied in the Netherlands for decades. Think, for example, of a hiking path that is interrupted by a plot of land that is set aside. The qualification "unprocessed" also excludes any form of agricultural land. This paragraph cannot be invoked to enter a pasture or field, even if the field was not put into use that year, for example in the context of crop rotation. There is also no access to an unbuilt or unbuilt property where access causes damage or discomfort to the plot, e.g. unstable rocks rolling downhill due to entry or fragile vegetation damaged or destroyed by entry. The owner of a set-aside land can also deny access by simply placing a sign or fence, just as is the case today. Your third question is about ladder law. Article 63 (2) deals with the so-called ladder law. Anyone carrying out construction or repair works where it is necessary to enter the ground of the neighbor may do so, provided that they have been informed in advance to the neighbour in question. If the neighbor has legitimate motives, he or she can refuse. In that case, the person who wants to perform the works must enforce that right in the court of peace, demonstrating the need to use the plot and taking into account the reasons of the non-neighbouring neighbour. The interpretation of the words "legal motives" belongs exclusively to the judiciary. There are, of course, hypotheses in which the entry could cause damage to the neighbour or where a request for repeated or prolonged access would entail a disproportionate restriction on the right of ownership. Mrs Verhaert, you can see that there are no far-reaching exceptions to property rights. These amended paragraphs mainly resolve some of the uncertainties and gaps in the old legislation. Moreover, these are exceptional cases where the owner is always able to enforce his or her right of ownership, if necessary before the competent court. My house is my castle, that is to say, the inviolability of the house, a principle that I had to insist on during the corona crisis, when the practice of administrative searches threatened to arise from indications of violations of the corona rules, a principle that I repeat again today, even at the entry into force of the Book 3 of the new Civil Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u9	Thank you very much, Minister, for clarifying a number of misunderstandings. A number of reports show that in some municipalities there were still misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u10	Madam President, Minister, the Pano report on violence against women three weeks ago has caused a great deal of controversy. Each month in Belgium, two women are estimated to be murdered by their partner. A woman in five gets to deal with partner violence one day. The Pano-reportage tells the story of Christina, Marieke and Sonja, who were confronted with extreme violence in their relationship. Those stories really grabbed my throat. In the Chamber in 2021, we adopted the resolution against intra-family violence, with many initiatives, to stop intra-family violence. You also announced many initiatives, such as the digital dossier, which will be introduced as a priority for intra-family and sexual violence, as well as an extension of the mobile stalking alert, following a positive evaluation. When the data subjects press a button, their location is immediately sent to the emergency services, who know the file and can act quickly. Minister, I have a few more questions. First of all, what is the effectiveness of the stalking alert? How and when do you plan the extension of the stalking alarm? Secondly, what concrete steps are you taking to introduce the digital dossier as a priority for intra-family violence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u11	Madam President, Mrs Verhaert, the extension of the stalking alert is an important point. Following the ministerial letter of 29 May 2019 concerning the stalking alarm, a pilot project was launched in Ghent. The project is based on a multidisciplinary approach, in addition to the safety barrier, because of course it is not enough simply to give an alarm to victims. The security hatch is an app integrated into the 112 app where a portable button, connected via bluetooth to the victim's smartphone, allows the victim to notify the police very quickly and easily. The emergency power stations are also involved in the project so that these alarms get the appropriate and rapid follow-up immediately. It is also nationally active. So the victim is not restricted in his or her room of movement. The alarm offers numerous advantages. The five most important ones are next. Firstly, the alarm can be triggered on the entire territory of Belgium. Secondly, the alarm can also work if the Internet connection fails, for example in a basement. Thirdly, the victim's GPS location is passed on. One knows perfectly where the person in question is. That allows the police to intervene immediately. Fourthly, the specific details of the victim are reported to the intervention team. Fifth, this creates a huge sense of safety for the victims, with intervention in the event of acute danger being very rapid. The pilot project in Ghent is being evaluated very positively. We are now consulting with various partners in the field to make a national start on that alarm. It is a question of providing funding, police and police cooperation, but also of other partners in the overall approach to intra-family violence. In the report, Professor Stevens said there was a lack of figures to indicate the problem. That has to do with the fact that Justice is hardly digitized. Therefore, the government has decided to introduce the digital dossier as a priority for intra-family violence and secondary for sexual violence. This way we can better map the problem. How do we proceed? In a first phase, we will digitally make a copy of a verdict available on the Internet. Subsequently, the digital files will be further developed by systematically including more documents in that application, including electronic minutes and subpoenas. It is currently being analysed whether this is actually feasible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u12	Mr. Secretary. I am pleased to hear that you are addressing the problem and that the stalking alarm will be effectively rolled out throughout Belgium. After yesterday, we continue to read testimonies again today. In addition, there is a dark number: A lot of things stay in rooms. That's poignant. As I said, we have adopted a resolution with many recommendations across different competences. So it is good to hear that this plan is being worked on, but we are not there yet. I will, of course, continue to talk to you and your colleagues about the roll-out of all these measures. I have good hope that we can work together on a stronger framework against intra-family violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u13	Madam President, Minister, I am being questioned by some magistrates who inform me that, since the covid crisis, they now have extensive access to the Strada lex legal research and data bank. Until then, according to the information in my possession, they had only the paper libraries of the palaces and limited and limited access to the Strada lex database. In order to enable judges to render judgements more effectively but also more qualitatively, it seems to me essential that they have extensive access to the various electronic legal databases in our country. Indeed, at a time of increased digitalisation, many journals and other legal literatures are only published in computer format, so that paper format becomes rapidly and inexorably obsolete. In addition, databases such as Strada lex, JURA or Jurisquare have the advantage not only that they compile the vast majority of both jurisprudential and doctrinal references, but also that they allow much faster targeted and in-depth research. In this regard, Minister, my questions are as follows. What are currently access to the legal data banks available to magistrates? Do you confirm that these accesses will be maintained beyond the period specifically related to covid? Have there been or will there be any consultations with magistrates with a view to accurately targeting their needs? How are the various paper libraries still present in the country's courthouses updated? Is a dedicated service in place? Finally, what is the annual budget allocated to the various legal, paper and computer databases made available to our magistrates?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u14	Colleague, with regard to your first question, over the last two years, our Judicial Training Institute has awarded three public contracts for legal databases. Contracts entered into force on the following dates: Strada lex on October 1, 2020, JURA on October 1, 2020, and Jurisquare on June 1, 2021. Judges, clerks and prosecutors have access to the following legal content. They have access to the full contents of JURA, composed of legislation, case law, legal journals and e-books. They have access to the full content of Strada lex and a selection of Jurisquare's legal journals. With regard to your second question, the above-mentioned public contracts were awarded for a period of two years, renewable once for a period of two years as well. As long as the public contract is in force, judges have access to this content. I agree with you that at this time of digitalisation, libraries must also be digitized and made more accessible. With regard to your third question, in 2020, an investigation was launched to detect the information needs of magistrates regarding legal documentation. The Institute plans to relaunch an updated version of this survey in the near future. A second method is used to detect information needs for legal documentation and the Central Libraries Working Group meeting. The aim of this working group is to be able to provide, via central libraries, documentation which is not available online and which is consulted only exceptionally or which concerns only a certain borough. With regard to your fourth question, the contracts also provide for the delivery of paper journals. These journals are distributed between the various librarian contact points in each district. The Judicial Training Institute has identified a point of contact for deliveries in each district. The Court of Cassation is also considered to be a librarian point of contact. Despite the good relations and the times of consultation with libraries located in the courthouses, I would like to point out that libraries fall within the jurisdiction of the district. The Institute tends to respect the autonomy of each district and the autonomy of their libraries. It should be noted that the Institute's expertise is limited to databases and journals. The Institute has no jurisdiction over the purchase of books. With regard to your fifth question, the annual budget is €10,088,500.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u15	Madam President, Minister, on July 14 and 15, our country experienced unprecedented floods that hit many people. Among the people affected are the actors of the judicial world such as the studies of bailiffs, notaries or the offices of lawyers. Without going into detail, the problem of the disappearance of official documents, as well as of archives to be kept legally for some time, has arisen. Indeed, the waters have on many occasions damaged if not destroyed a large number of these documents. In this regard, my questions are very concrete. Minister, have your services put in place specific measures to deal with this problem? Will legal actors affected by these floods benefit from tolerance measures as part of their obligation to keep certain documents? Similarly, will the persons concerned by the disappearance of these same documents benefit from tolerance measures and specific aid in relation to this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the de-concentrated teams of the Infrastructure Directorate of the FPS Justice have worked with the jurisdictions and the State Archives to determine to the best of their ability the archives to be rescued. Once this was defined, the archives that could not be recovered were destroyed. The others were frozen to stop the spread of spores destroying paper or moving to healthy places. Some documents have been isolated to avoid slower contamination by fungi. My services have concentrated their efforts on safeguarding documents for which the State has a legal obligation to deposit with the State Archives. Five archive palettes for Limburg, one archive palette for Spa and twelve archive palettes for Verviers have been frozen and must now be processed. The treatment consists first of a lyophilization of the archives and then of the restoration of the archives. My services are working with the Government Archives to determine which documents will need to be restored as a matter of priority. On your second question, it is a debate that still needs to be held with all the actors concerned, on the basis of an inventory of what has been destroyed or saved. So I can't answer you right now. But without being able to anticipate this debate too much, I would already like to say that the force majeure factor can play a role in favour of the players in the judicial world and the litigants.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am in contact with the actors on the ground, which I quoted earlier, and I can say that the difficulty is real for them. You were talking about the techniques used to try to recover what can still be, or in any case to stop the process of destruction or disintegration of documents. It's a real problem. It is important to be with these actors. Behind this, it is also very frustrating not to be able to deliver archives to customers who are waiting for these documents, not to be able to give the full information that customers are entitled to expect. I have had the opportunity to see this in a very concrete way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u18	Minister, thank you for this information. Indeed, as you said, for the second part of the question, we do not yet have all the answers. Attention should be paid to this. As Mr Goffin has said, there is some frustration at the moment with the consequences of the floods. You'll have to continue the work you've already started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u19	Minister, on the occasion of the return of the Liège Court of Appeal, the Attorney General had the opportunity to take stock of the past year and of the congestion of the courts and tribunals under his jurisdiction. For example, for the Court of Appeal of Liège alone (three provinces), more than 110,000 new correctional cases were brought in one year, of which 20% concerned violations of health standards. The backlog of cases already in existence is thus significantly exacerbated by the mass of health-care cases. This, of course, has important consequences if, on the one hand, the time limits for obtaining a decision on common or specialised criminal law (other than covid) are extended and, on the other hand, the time and means which can be devoted to it are reduced by force. Our French neighbours seem to have the same problem. Minister, have any specific measures been put in place to address this issue of health offences? What are the practical means allocated to prosecutors, courts and tribunals to deal with this exceptional situation? Is it necessary and possible to create specific procedures for health offences in order to eliminate, at least in part, the backlog of such offences?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u20	Colleagues, there seems to be a need for some explanation of the figures cited. The number of new cases you are reporting concerns the new cases brought before the Public Prosecutor's Office in Liège: more than 100 000, 113 000 to be precise. That is indeed a huge figure. This represents an increase of 11% for this area of Liège. It should be noted that the increase appears mainly in specific areas, such as infringements of the "corona" health standards, i.e. 20,340 files, computer fraud (+7%), concealment and money laundering (+ 21%). On the other hand, other areas have experienced a significant decline in the number of cases, such as theft or extortion (- 18%) and drug offences (- 9%). In response to your first question about breaches of health standards, I can tell you that a circular was written on behalf of the College of Attorneys General at the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic, the famous circular COL 6/2020. The criminal response to all offences resulting from non-compliance with the Ministerial Order of 23 March 2020 was indeed to contribute to the strict application of all measures taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Effective coordination of administrative and judicial action is essential and to this end the circular contains the guidelines for the finding of facts and the investigation as well as for the criminal response. The circular has been updated many times during the pandemic to reflect changing circumstances. Many offences have been settled so that these cases have not been brought before the courts. I will provide you in writing with the figures relating to the processing of Corona files by prosecutors. With regard to your second question, as a first step, prosecutors and courts have dealt with these cases without any additional resources being allocated. Justice, both the public prosecutor's office and the headquarters, has undeniably shown its best side here in often changing circumstances. It has played an important role in the implementation of the Corona measures. With regard to the budget for the strengthening of the justice system, funds have been made available for this year — as I have decided — for 10 police judges, 10 clerks and assistants in the police courts, 28 prosecutors' lawyers and 28 prosecutors' assistants. As far as your third question is concerned, as a first step, the Corona files were summoned to the criminal courts. After changes in legislation and by my predecessor, the police courts became competent. They faced this influx by organizing thematic and/or additional hearings. As you know, the Public Prosecutor's Office had proposed to my predecessor that the payment order we know for the taxi fines also applies to the collection of unpaid corona fines. But Parliament did not follow this proposal at the time, hence the huge influx of cases now before the courts. Currently, with additional recruitment, the situation appears to be under control. There does not seem to be a need for specific procedures. However, in general, I believe that the payment order can be a good way to settle a procedure quickly, provided that the rights of the defence are respected. I hope that we can resume this debate in the Committee on Justice when the time comes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u22	Madam Chair, Minister, during discussions on the Pandemic Act and, more specifically, on the automatic erasure of related offences, some voices, particularly from academia, have indicated that the criminal record mechanism is somewhat archaic in our country. If our system has an automatic erasure system, especially for police sentences, it is different from other types of punishment. On the other hand, it is clear that, for reasons of efficiency and security, the existence of a criminal record is fundamental. However, it must be balanced against the right to be forgotten by everyone. Today, this right to be forgotten seems, by force of things, intrinsically linked to the procedure of rehabilitation. This procedure, for its part, is objective, but leaves considerable room for manoeuvre and appreciation involving subjective notions such as "good conduct" or "amendment" that the convicted person has shown. This procedure may therefore seem as complex as it is unclear. My questions are as follows. Are specific human and material resources allocated to the control of these rehabilitation procedures? Is a simplification of the procedure, in particular by reducing the criteria considered subjective, envisaged? It is easy to imagine that the presence of a criminal record can interfere with the reintegration of the convicted person. Are there specific measures to limit the impact of a criminal record in a reintegration process? The Netherlands has a different approach on the subject. Thus, there are structures acting as an intermediary between the convicted person and a potential employer in order to avoid barriers to employment, and hence reintegration, which could be caused by the presence of a criminal record. Is such a model possible or envisaged in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u23	My colleague, as you say, we must strike a balance between the need to punish and share information on punishment through a criminal record, and on the other hand, the possibility of social reintegration to which we must give all our chances. In answer to your first question, the procedure for rehabilitating criminal matters uses specific means at the level of the judicial services, in order to ensure that the conditions laid down by the legislator are monitored in order to be able to benefit from the rehabilitation. Thus, what you consider to be a subjective notion, either the correct conduct or the amendment which the applicant must have demonstrated during the required trial time, is, in reality, considered by the judicial services at two levels. The first level consists, for the judicial services competent for rehabilitation, of checking whether there has been, during the trial period, one or more offences committed which have given rise to a follow-up other than a summons to court, for example an immediate perception of driving. The second level of control concerns the payment of fines and confiscations. Were they all paid by the applicant? If this is not the case, he still gets a chance to pay them. If the applicant does not pay them, then it is difficult for the rehabilitation services to consider that the latter has shown good conduct and amendment. Let me turn to your second question. In view of my answer to your first question, it appears that the judicial services have actually translated what you consider to be subjective criteria into objective criteria. It is prima facie important that the reality of the applicant's amendment and good conduct during the trial period provided for by law be verified. However, as I informed our colleague Rohonyi on 9 June in an interesting question, also concerning the criminal record and rehabilitation system, I decided to have our current system analysed in more detail to see if improvements could be made. This analysis is currently under way in my department. As said earlier, we must act in a thoughtful manner and not work in haste. With regard to your third question, as also indicated on 9 June, there are specific measures in our criminal record regulations to limit its impact in the context of the reintegration of convicted persons. Indeed, our criminal record system is such that it is intended precisely to serve two conflicting a priori interests: on the one hand, the general interest characterized by information to the authorities concerned by the criminal procedure in relation to judicial history and, on the other hand, the particular interest of the convicted person characterised by an extract from the criminal record enabling him to engage in a regulated activity, in particular professional activity. Our current criminal record system, in my view, is not archaic, but it does not mean that any improvement is possible. Implemented only 20 years ago, it makes it possible to reproduce on the extract only what is relevant to the purpose of the extract. It shall, for each type of extract provided for in a regulation, include the convictions provided for in that regulation. How better to promote the reintegration of convicted persons except by reproducing on the excerpts only what the legislator considered to be a condition for the exercise of an activity, particularly professional one. Our criminal record system, with varying content depending on the purpose of the extract requested and thus ensuring the possibilities of social reintegration, has been the subject of a certain interest for two decades by States which are required to modernise the criminal record, as is the case in some African countries. Furthermore, it should be borne in mind that the principle of producing an extract of a criminal record is limited to the cases provided for by law and therefore only occupational regulations, for example in the field of employment, allow the production of an extract. This principle was reiterated by the Data Protection Authority. That being said, as announced a few months ago, an analysis is under way within my services to see to what extent the system could be improved. With regard to your fourth question, in the Netherlands as in Belgium, there are regulated professions for which, in the Netherlands, verklaring omtrent het gedrag (VOG) is required. However, unlike Belgium, it is in the Netherlands an authority, the Centraal organ Verklaring omtrent het gedrag, which decides whether or not to grant this certificate on the basis of the absence of risk that the candidate would represent for the activity to be carried out or for the company. As I said, our Belgian system is based on the sorting of convictions under professional regulations. We used to know the certificate of good conduct, life and morals, which was also left to the discretion of an authority. The legislator put an end to this system of certificates, considering that it should be assessed somewhat subjectively, in order to replace it with a document containing only the criminal record, which ensures a more objective character to the document. The Belgian authority which produces the extracts of the criminal record is the Central Judicial Case, which only reproduces on the extracts the convictions provided for by the regulations in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answers. I note that you are analysing possible developments in the criminal record. It will be interesting to be able to come back to this subject once this analysis work has been done by your services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u25	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Chanson's 55021299 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u26	Minister, last week I asked you questions about mediation. I also told you that I would ask you further questions on this, hence my question about the composition of the Conciliation Committee and the under-representation of the third group. As you know, the Bureau of the Federal Conciliation Committee consists of eight permanent and eight alternate members. The law provides that the King shall lay down the detailed rules for the publication of vacancies, for the submission of applications and for the nomination of members. The permanent and alternate members shall be appointed by the Minister of Justice on reasoned nomination. The law also provides that the distribution is to be made according to the relevant professions. In the Office there are four lawyers, four notaries, two magistrates, two bailiffs and four mediators who do neither the profession of lawyer nor that of notary nor that of bailiff nor that of magistrate. They form the so-called third group. However, this division raises questions of representativeness. It is clear that some professional groups are disproportionately represented in the Bureau and that, above all, the mediators of the so-called third group are under-represented. Mr Minister, I come to my questions. Can you give an overview of the number of recognised mediators per profession? Is the under-representation of the third group justified in view of the mandates of the Conciliation Committee to make mediation more effective in society? Do you intend to take a legislative initiative to amend the Code of Justice as regards mediation? Do you intend to lay down new rules on the publication of vacancies, the submission of applications and the nomination of members to the Bureau of the Federal Conciliation Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u27	Mrs Platteau, we will provide you with four documents for an overview of the number of recognised mediators per profession. In Table A you will find an overview of all recognised mediators per subject matter on 30 September 2021 and in Table B you will find an overview of all recognised mediators per requested profession on 30 September 2021. Table C serves to clarify Table B: you will find a further breakdown. For example, lawyers, business lawyers and notarial lawyers are also covered by the third group. Table C shows that many legal profiles work as mediators and that the third group is a very diverse group with different occupational groups and profiles. This is also confirmed in the results of the 2021 Conciliation Barometer, which we will add as Annex B. We'll get you the documents today. As for your second question, the third group consists of mediators who do not pursue the profession of lawyer or notary, bailiff or magistrate. The idea of recourse to mediators for the composition of the Federal Conciliation Committee dates from the Law of 21 February 2005. That law stipulated that the general committee and the three special committees would be composed of two lawyers, two notaries and two thirds members. In this way, the full Federal Conciliation Committee was constituted until the entry into force of the new Conciliation Act of 2018. However, since the 2018 reform, which completely revised the structure of the Federal Conciliation Committee, that system has been used only for the composition of the Office in order to avoid too much corporateism. The composition of the Recognition Committee and the Disciplinary Board does not follow the same logic. A call for candidates is launched in the Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Magistrate's Only the chairman of the committees is from the Bureau. The composition of the Federal Conciliation Committee as a whole does not seem disproportionate to me, but it is true that in the last reform two categories of legal professions have been added to the composition of the Bureau, in particular the magistrates and the bailiffs. It therefore seems appropriate to evaluate whether the right balance is reached at the level of the Office's representation. We'll do that evaluation in time. As far as your third and fourth questions are concerned, I intend to submit a draft with a view to laying down various legal provisions relating to conciliation. It is not about a substantive reform such as that of 2018. After all, it cannot be the intention to substantially amend the law every four years. More specifically, the design will aim to correct or correct some formal errors. If it turns out that an amendment to the Royal Decree is necessary, and I refer, among other things, to the evaluation, I will, of course, do the necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I look forward to the tables you will provide me with with the figures of the various professions. I can say that on the ground, the mediators of the third group feel that the Conciliation Committee is very strongly represented by lawyers, bailiffs and magistrates, as you also said. I think it is very important to send the message that mediation and alternative forms of dispute resolution are separate from the judicial procedures and that we should also give recognition to the mediators. They may have a more psychological background, but they do pay attention to the relational aspect of a conflict. They are very competent in this and they are very committed to society in the field of mediation. I look forward to the bill you announced. I'll follow that closely. I hope that we will be able to debate this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u29	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 55021306C by Mrs Platteau on the recognition of training as recognised mediator by the Federal Conciliation Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u30	Madam President, since I am asking for figures in particular, this question may be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u31	That's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u32	Minister, a few days ago I received a very worrying report from the supervisory committee at Tournai Prison, which reports on particularly difficult conditions of detention with disturbing consequences for the health of prisoners. According to this report, this situation leads to an increase in psychiatric cases and there is an increase in violence, trafficking of any kind, serious problems of carelessness or a decrease in the security of the guards; and all this represents only the visible part of the iceberg. The deterioration of the overall situation in Tournai prison appears to be due in particular to the lack of financial, human and logistical resources, but also to the worrying state of the site's infrastructure. Minister, I have no doubt that you have read the report of the supervisory committee at Tournai Prison? Therefore, will financial and human resources be granted to the prison in Tournai and within what time frame? Have you had any contact with your colleague, the Secretary of State in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, regarding the construction of the infrastructure? What is the agenda for the planned work? What is the status of the transfer of health care to inmates to the Department of Health? How long should this transfer be carried out? With regard to the problems of inmate care, was prison staff sensitized/prepared to respond in the most appropriate manner?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u33	Madam President, my colleague, both the annual report of the Tournai Prison Supervision Commission and the report of the Central Penitentiary Supervision Council (CPSC), which incorporates the essential elements of the report, have been published on the CPSC website. So, with my firm, I was able to read the content of the comments that were made on access to care, on drug and insurance problems or on the work to be done. With regard to this last point, I have also noted that the Commission highlights the significant investments made in 2020 thanks to my predecessor – whom I welcome and congratulate. To answer your second question, there has been no specific financial provision for the prison in Tournai, but increases in some budget items have been granted this year to all prisons. I refer here to the answer that I should have given to Mrs Rohonyi and that I am going to give you a fresh start. Please be aware that the Finance Inspector has just validated the proposal to recruit 100 people for temporary contracts, which will unlock deployments and the arrival of new agents in many establishments, including the one in Tournai. I come to your third question. I have daily contacts with the Régie des Bâtiments and with my colleague, Mathieu Michel, his firm and his administration. As far as infrastructure is concerned, I confirm that major security work in the prison is currently under way, including the creation of a control and intervention post (installation of a new video surveillance system, alarm button, perimetric detection). With regard to the renovation of wing A, the study is under way. It should be included in the budget of the Régie des Bâtiments for 2022. This study includes the complete renovation of the wing (large work, chassis of cells, cell doors, cell furniture, electricity, sanitary). The showers of wing A will be renovated at the same time as the said wing. WCs will be installed in each cell. The B wing showers will be included in the A wing renovation file. As far as wing C is concerned, work should have started, but the company has gone bankrupt, which is why the procedure will have to be repeated. The complete renovation of the kitchen is unfortunately at a standstill. The Régie des Bâtiments, however, commissioned renovations of ceilings and lighting. This work has been completed. In 2022 or even 2023, the tiles will be repaired. A smaller renovation project is being considered. It would include a back kitchen with new refrigerators, storage facilities and a truck unloading dock and a cargo lift. To your fourth question, I will reply that the reform of prison health care has been included in the government agreement. This reform should enable prisoners and internees to receive equivalent care in the light of the often higher need for care. It will be carried out in close collaboration with Public Health and federated entities. In order to implement it, I have instructed my administration to resume the activities of the working groups set up as part of this reform during the previous legislature. At a meeting between Justice and Public Health on 28 May 2021, the vision text developed by the previous steering group was definitively validated. It was agreed that the various working groups should resume their activities. In the meantime, the steering group and the various working groups have already met. The meetings are frequent and regular, the last general meeting of 15 September 2021. I would also like to recall that it has been decided that the integration of detainees into INAMI will be the first phase and that the subsequent deployment of the care will take place in stages. It will be a multi-year plan. No concrete date can therefore be given at this stage, even if this dossier makes very concrete progress. There is, on the one hand, the budget and, on the other, the reforms to be carried out. Finally, to answer your last question, prison staff are made aware of the problem of insurance through the module on drugs and drug policy in the prison, which is an integral part of the basic training organized by the Prison Training Centre. Any new agent is following this module. In addition, the Centre has a training programme entitled "Drug expertise", which consists of continuous and more in-depth training on the issue of drugs and on how to treat drug addicted prisoners and addiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u34	Minister, thank you very much for the quality of your answers. You take back a whole series of elements that are positive for the prison in Tournai. This is a case that I am particularly in the Picardy Wallonia as a Member of Parliament. In your answer, Minister, I feel that you are showing a particular sensitivity to her, also coming from this region. I recognize you here. If you don't mind, I'll go back to the condition of the building and the exciting news that you're announcing for us after 2022, with a whole series of works that you mentioned. You pointed out in your reply that the work of wing C, which was to begin on September 6, could not start following the bankruptcy of the successful contractor. It would be interesting to see what follow-up could be reserved for this case, and whether a new invitation to tender would have to take place. The problems encountered in this wing are of particular concern (humidity, condition of showers and sanitary facilities). The other wings will be taken into consideration from 2022 onwards. You've been specific about the insurances. This is a serious problem that deserves your special attention. You bring your benevolence to it. I believe that training at this level is essential and absolutely necessary. Finally, the transfer of inmate health care is also one of your priorities – I have seen and heard it. I would like to draw your attention to the observance of the agenda and the timetable. Mr Minister, I certainly count on you to ensure that the positive answers you have given are followed up in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u35	Mr Minister, the majority agreement provides – of course it is an excellent thing – that the fight against trafficking and trafficking in human beings will be intensified. Today I will focus on the "trafficking of human beings" aspect of this government commitment. Indeed, the question is very topical in the light of the evolution that you are proposing of the legal framework concerning prostitution. It is known that many people in prostitution are also victims of human trafficking. I know that you have already had the opportunity to speak on this subject on several occasions in response to parliamentary questions. You have indicated the various means and procedures available to the justice system to combat trafficking in human beings and the additional means foreseen, including the new action plan to combat trafficking and additional investments. I have read the answers and my questions are rather updating questions for the items you had already provided before. Minister, can you tell me if you have any new elements to make as part of your efforts to advance this important objective of Vivaldi, and as we are currently considering the bill reforming the sexual penal code in our commission, including its prostitution component? What additional responses could you provide to specialized associations that fear that the change in the legal framework of prostitution will have a negative impact on the fight against trafficking in human beings? For example, you said in early July that you were going to devote additional resources to the fight against criminal networks. Do you have more precise – and perhaps encrypted – information in this regard? Is it possible to improve the protection of victims of prostitution so that they enjoy the same protection as victims of trafficking in human beings?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u36	Dear colleague, several initiatives are and will be taken to step up the fight against trafficking in human beings. First, the new National Action Plan against Trafficking in Human Beings was adopted in June 2021 by the Interdepartmental Coordination Unit for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings. This plan sets out the course of action to be followed in this area over the next four years. In implementation of the action plan and the government agreement, the funding of specialized shelters for victims of trafficking in human beings is now fully integrated into the general expenditure budget. This is a source of more stability. In addition, consideration is being given to incorporating a stronger legal basis into this funding. In addition, an increase in the subsidies of the centres is envisaged in a future budget in order to take into account certain additional tasks they undertake, such as training missions or to respond to a possible extension of the public which they are likely to receive in the context of the reform linked to prostitution. Thirdly, in terms of raising awareness of the problem of trafficking, Belgium is a partner in the United Nations Blue Heart campaign. On the occasion of World Day to Combat Trafficking in Human Beings on 30 July, various awareness-raising initiatives were taken. In the near future, it is also planned to broadcast the Blind Betting campaign, an initiative of the European Commission on sexual exploitation. Fourthly, discussions have taken place between the federal and federated entities in order to better harmonize the principles related to the guidance of minors who are victims of trafficking. On the basis of the agreements reached, the multidisciplinary circular on the guidance of victims of trafficking will be reviewed. This circular is currently being evaluated. We look forward to the results before making a more general review. In addition, the Office of the Interdepartmental Cell is continuing its work on various initiatives. In 2017, in collaboration with the Financial Information Processing Unit, an information document containing the financial indicators of trafficking in human beings was sent via Febelfin to the Belgian Banking Compliance Service. This operation was repeated in 2020 by updating the document. Discussions are currently under way with Western Union to develop the same type of initiative. In addition, an information brochure is being prepared on victim compensation procedures. It is intended to be a complementary tool to the support provided by the reception centres. In addition, in 2019, the Federal Police began a comprehensive review of the content of training on trafficking in human beings in order to update it in relation to the difficulties encountered in the application of the instruments of investigation and guidance of victims. The new trainings will therefore focus more on certain aspects of the procedure and on the current trends in trafficking in human beings. Other work is under way, such as the evaluation of circulars on the subject of the College of Attorneys General. Finally, Belgium will receive a delegation from the Council of Europe at the end of October as part of its evaluation of its trafficking policy. The Department of Justice is currently and actively preparing, together with the Council of Europe, the organisation of this visit. This is a summary of the initiatives initiated as a priority mainly for the years 2020-2021. Other projects will be implemented over the parliamentary period. Last but not least, there is the work of the police on the ground under the expert leadership of the reference magistrates specializing in trafficking and trafficking in human beings. Justice continues to focus on the criminal networks behind this phenomenon. News releases from the Belga Agency report almost daily arrests or convictions. We are also tackling the problem of small boats, which are often used to reach the United Kingdom today. We do so through large-scale police actions but also through targeted investigations. Our magistrates also play a pioneering role in international cooperation, notably with Europol and Eurojust, which I visited a few weeks ago. We are taking initiatives to further optimize our data-based investigation efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u37	Minister, thank you very much. As my colleague Senesael said, it is definitely very pleasant to have very detailed answers every week. I had no doubt about your determination in this matter. You confirm it here. I will continue to follow carefully the various initiatives that you are talking about. We will certainly have an opportunity to discuss this in committee as part of the debate on the reform of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u38	Minister, recently, during its operation, both financial and operational malpractices were identified at the Executive College of Muslims of Belgium and related organisations. You know, Minister, that in the meantime I have drawn up a motion for a resolution calling for a thorough operational and financial audit. Last week, you announced that there was no need for an additional investigation. A great deal has come to light in recent days, and I think that more will come to light tonight. I hope that tomorrow you will also be prepared to answer questions in plenary. A simple consultation of the website of the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises teaches us that the non-profit association has not deposited or published any financial statements since it was founded in 2008. Nor does the convening of legal meetings take place. The non-profit association consists of a general meeting and a board of directors and would have an annual turnover of around EUR 4.5 million. If the non-profit association is not required to submit annual accounts to the National Bank of Belgium, it must do so at the Registry of the company court. In 2014, the budget was around 300,000 euros, half of which would have been paid out illegally to the accountant. In 2016, a car worth about 40,000 euros was purchased, which later turned out to be unaccounted for. What happened to the purchased media material worth 40,000 euros is also a mystery to us. Many ghost servants would have been employed and paid with the funds of the non-profit association, which is, moreover, partly subsidised by taxpayers' money. Rumors are that a permanent contract was given to alleged spies, among other things. There is also great uncertainty about the flows of money between the non-profit organisation and its sister organisations. Can you provide us with the annual accounts of the non-profit association and its sister organisations from 2014 to the present? If the non-profit association is allowed to keep simplified accounts, can you provide us with the annual accounts deposited with the Registry of the company court? The annual accounts for 2020 show that the non-profit organisation would have a turnover of EUR 4.5 million. Can you confirm that? What activities does the non-profit take that huge turnover from? Are you considering an audit of the non-profit organisations and sister organisations by instructing external parties to conduct financial and operational malpractices? Last week, you said no. I hope that, after the new revolutions, the answer will be yes. Does State Security monitor the personnel recruited? Under what statute were the staff employed? Are the rumors that, among other things, a permanent contract was given to alleged spies? Can you confirm that? Is there a judicial investigation into the espionage? After yesterday's news and today's news, I would like to add a few more questions, but I will be happy to keep them for tomorrow, Minister. I shall confine myself to these six questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u39	Mr Metsu, quite a few reports have appeared over the past few days and weeks about the Muslim executive and some of its members. It's about alleged malpractice. I assume this is not a coincidence, especially in the light of the Pano reportage that is on display tonight on One. In general, I can say the following. The annual accounts shall be transferred to and audited by the administration of the Justice Department with the report of a company auditor. Afterwards, an audit will be carried out by the Treasury Inspection, after which the accounts will be sent to the Court of Auditors. I will provide you with the requested documents, in particular the annual accounts for the years 2014 to 2019. The annual accounts for 2020 are currently audited by my administration. Secondly, I take note of the fact that three members of the Muslim Executive have initiated proceedings in the company court because they consider that administrative malpractices have taken place at the association Collège de l'Exécutif des Musulmans de Belgique. I will follow that and, of course, await the judge's ruling in this case. Thirdly, if there is evidence of financial malpractice, then they must be examined and the court must intervene if necessary. Of course, there must be evidence for this. Of course, your proposal for an audit is not bad, because I agree with you on the substance, in particular on the fact that the Muslim executive does not show the necessary professionalism and transparency to carry out the task for which it was set up properly. This task is the representation of the Muslim community in our country. In our process with the Muslim executive, we are much further ahead, Mr Metsu. There was the Vice-President's resignation following allegations of espionage. There was my call to the Muslim community. There was the critical self-evaluation of the EMB. There was the success of the renewal operation that I, with respect for religious freedom, was critical and followed. There was and there is the subsidy that has been curbed by me. So we have already taken a lot of steps. To answer your question more precisely. Justitie subsidieert de vzw Collège de l'Ecutif des Moslems de Belgique. The grants for the imam training and management of the Grand Mosque of Brussels are also transferred to the account of this non-profit association. The association Collège de l'Exécutif des Musulmans de Belgique is indeed subject to the simplified accounting rules and submits the annual accounts to the Registry of the Brussels Business Court. There is no turnover of EUR 4.5 million for the year 2000. The association Collège de l'Exécutif des Musulmans de Belgique received a grant of €647,000 from the Justice Department in 2020. The Executive also receives grants from other governments. As has already been said, I did not wait for your request for a thorough check on the subsidies that I allocate to the Muslim executive. I already decided this year not to pay EUR 250 000 of the subsidies requested to the Muslim Executive. After all, imam training is not a successful operation. This was also established by the KUL and formulated as such. The Security of the State operates within the framework of its legal powers to deal with certain threats. That is the famous Article 8 of the 1998 Law. This means that a dossier will be opened for individuals and organisations that pose a threat in the areas of e.g. espionage, interference, terrorism or extremism. A dossier is the set of research works and evaluations relating to a risk linked to the threats identified in the 1998 Law and involving one or more persons, whether formally identified or not, at the origin of the risk. The main purpose of this investigation is to determine the extent of the threat. Some files are closed after a brief investigation. Other files run over a longer period. In addition, the Security of the State advises the Service of Honor Services of the FPS Justice in the context of the recognition of the faith communities. These opinions are then sent to and discussed with the regional authorities responsible for the recognition of religious communities. In connection with your last question about the alleged espionage, you know that there is a State Security report which states that an important person within the structures of the Muslim executive and the Great Mosque was involved in espionage and interference. This person has now left the structures at my request. No other facts of espionage have currently been reported within the scope of the Executive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u40	Minister, I think that today we absolutely agree on the fact that the Muslim executive does not show the necessary transparency and professionalism. Those are your literal words here. You're also saying you're way ahead of us. I have the impression that you are always going further to get back to the same starting point. You may have read today that the current President has also come to an end. We'll see what that audit might say about that. You say that the Muslim executive does not show the necessary transparency and professionalism, but they will still receive a grant of EUR 647 000 in 2020. That's more than getting the victims of terror, by the way, almost double. You say you cut the subsidies. Of course, that's not entirely true. Imam school didn't work at all. There were two students, I think. It was also screened that it didn't work at all. That part of the budget you just took away from it. If there had been such training, they would still have received the same subsidy from around EUR 647 000. I think you're dealing very ferociously with those pennies in the direction of Muslim execution. But we'll wait and see. I hear you're willing to do an audit after all. We will see what results will be obtained. For the rest, we're all on the edge of our chair to watch that Pano reportage tonight. So be continued tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u41	[[I'm]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u42	As regards your first question, dear colleague, the situation in Leuze is indeed problematic in terms of staff management. Where the national average was 95.4 per cent on 18 September, Leuze was about 92 per cent, which is reflected in the figures given to you, 185.9 full-time equivalents instead of the 203 planned. The situation should, however, improve for both Leuze and the other prisons. Since then, the proposal to recruit 100 people for temporary contracts for French-speaking prisons - 10 of which are planned in Leuze - has been approved by the Inspectorate of Finance. In addition to these 10 officers, further reinforcements are expected through the execution of deployments. As for the approach to absenteeism, a survey was carried out among the directorates. A uniform approach to absenteeism based on contracts with the absent agent will be put in place. This approach is part of a general approach to absenteeism and is based on various local initiatives that already existed in the past. With regard to your second question, it is not possible to give a percentage of prisoners vaccinated or unvaccinated for three main reasons: the first is linked to the flow of prisoners, since in prison, for example, prisoners sometimes leave quickly without having had time to benefit from their two vaccines. The second is related to the fact that inmates who received the first dose sometimes refused to benefit from the second dose. To give you an idea of the incidence of these two factors, during the second vaccination campaign, 741 inmates who received a first dose were no longer present or refused the second dose. The third reason is the fact that the vaccination campaign in free society has now started for almost ten months and more and more prisoners who arrive in prison are already being vaccinated. I can, however, give you the names of the vaccines given. Thus, during the first vaccination campaign, between 31 May and 20 July, 7,472 inmates received a first dose and 6,731 inmates received a second dose. Since the start of the second vaccination campaign in August, 539 inmates have already been vaccinated (first and second doses) With regard to your third question, I think the view put forward by the medical service is a little too simplistic. I cannot deny that in some institutions it is not easy to find staff and Leuze is no exception. However, there is no problem of payment or arrears to be regretted. A long-awaited and significant indexation was carried out just before the leave for services beginning in June 2021. I cannot deny that the lack of prison staff also affects medical services. Medical staff must wait too long for prisoners and thus waste time. For dentists, the problem is even more acute: they really waste a lot of time between patients. They try to compensate, but if the lack of patients is very important, their benefits are affected. I am the problem with the utmost attention and I give my support at all possible levels. Thus the replacement of the Epicure computer program with a modern one is in its last straight line since the specifications concerning it were published three weeks ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u43	Minister, I find your answer half-tone. First of all, with regard to vaccination, I hear that a number of detainees have refused the second dose, and that is a question to me. I will ask the Minister of Health about this. This shows that people, as well as outside the prison, are taking steps to get vaccinated for the first dose and then retracting. I would like to understand why, because it hurts us to get out of the crisis. As far as doctors and dentists are concerned, you say there is no problem with backlogs. I will check my information and invite your services to do the same. In any case, there is no shortage of patients, on the contrary, there is a request from inmates to receive proper dental hygiene, to have their teeth checked and to have a medical check-up. It's getting very complicated. With regard to the shortage of staff, I understand that you are aware of the real problem that is affecting the safety of officers who are too few to supervise inmates, but also to take their leave and be able to rest. Otherwise, they may be exposed to risk situations. At the end of August, there was a serious case of aggression against one of the officers. In addition, this situation affects the good health and reintegration of detainees because they need agents to accompany them to medical visits, as well as to training workshops and their gym. The situation in Leuze is indicative of a much more global situation which calls for a comprehensive plan like the one you are going to implement, which I would like to thank you for, while knowing that through this plan, it will be necessary to have a heart to work on all aspects of the upstream chain in the recruitment and payment of the remuneration of agents and doctors. A consultation with the Medex will have to be organised. It would also take – this would be interesting to upgrade the profession of agent – to classify inmates according to their danger. Indeed, today, motivated young prison officers find themselves nose to nose with great criminals while they are not yet ready to supervise them. This sometimes leads to cases of aggression or extremely difficult situations that cause them to abandon their profession or take long-term sick leave. In doing so, we find ourselves in a situation where the lack of staff is even more obvious than it is in theory. Minister, we will ensure that your plan is implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u44	I must once again question you about the measures put in place by your Government and the previous ones to support the victims of the attacks in Brussels, but also the victims of attacks in general. My party has never denied this: progress has been made, in particular as a result of the remarkable work carried out by the parliamentary committee of inquiry Attentats. On the other hand, it must be recognized that only a small number of these recommendations have been put in place, in any case with regard to the care of victims. A very striking example is the one-stop shop. It would not benefit the victims of the attacks in Brussels, but only the potential future victims of attacks. For this reason, the victims of the attacks in Brussels must today – almost 5 years after the events – step up their efforts with the many insurers and bodies to be either accompanied and supported or compensated. That is why last March I asked you about the establishment of a fund to compensate victims of terrorist attacks. On this occasion, I proposed another avenue: to draw up a single, clear and precise list of victims, who would have had the merit of facilitating the transmission of useful information to victims and their dependants, with a view to informing them of their rights and providing them with the support they deserve. You have never responded to this proposal. Last June, I filed an inquiry followed by a motion for a recommendation on the lack of clarity surrounding the subside granted to a victim association in the context of a coaching project, to the detriment of another victim association. This motion has since been rejected by the majority. However, opacity remains with regard to the criteria for the allocation of this subsidy. Today, I wanted to go back more specifically to inadequate support for the victims of attacks. I will not go back to the government's decision to adopt a coaching project that does not respond at all to what the victims want. Moreover, this decision was taken without any consultation with the victims, who, following a survey launched by one of the victims' associations, considered that with this proposal, I quote, "they were not being cared for". I am not going to come back to this issue, but I wanted to ask you in a broader way about the support that is being given to the victims today; because at present, whether you want it or not, the victims do not feel listened to. Their legitimate requests are supported by various international, European and national bodies, but also by the recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry, which I mentioned earlier. On 15 September, in a white card, the members of the board of directors of ISBL Life4Brussels recalled that Belgium has been reclassified to the worst European pupils in terms of taking care of the victims of attacks, since it has still not fully implemented the rules included in the European Directive 2012/29 of 25 October 2012, which sets minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime, in particular terrorist acts. The transposition of the Directive has not yet taken place, although it is extremely valuable. This directive gives victims very clear rights in access to information and participation in criminal proceedings, but also in support and protection, which must be adapted to their needs. This directive also ensures that the most vulnerable victims receive additional protection throughout the criminal proceedings that concern them. Minister, I don't know if you've read that white card. Anyway, know I did. You really feel, through this carte blanche, a real ras-le-bol. It follows what was felt to be the drop of water that overflows the vase, namely a very recent decision of the Commission for the financial aid to victims declaring inadmissible the request of one of the victims of the attacks, because its application had been submitted after the deadline of 18 March 2020. It was added that victims of the Brussels attacks could still be compensated, but provided that they were compensated as non-terrorism victims. This is a fairly important piece of information, following a request by the Life4Brussels association, because we were faced with the expiry of the compensation deadlines. The victims thus obtained extremely important information, a great legal-administrative subtlety to be compensated which finally came from a decision of the commission for financial assistance, whereas it should have come from you, Minister – from the federal government – because this information is eminently valuable in particular for victims who do not have the chance to be supported from the beginning by an association of victims. So I come to my questions: Did you know the possibility for victims to be compensated as victims other than terrorism, as explained by the Commission for Financial Assistance to Victims? Do you recognize that this subtlety should have been communicated to the victims since it was no longer possible for the victims of the attack to seek financial assistance as a victim of terrorist attacks, i.e. in March 2020? In doing so, why was it not from that date? When will all the recommendations made by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry Attentats be fully put in place by this government, so that the legitimate demands of the victims of the attacks can finally be met, and the victims finally listened to in their very fair and legitimate demands?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u45	We have read carefully the open letter of Life4Brussels, an association to help victims of attacks, published on the website of the newspaper La Libre on Wednesday, 15 September. This letter follows numerous inquiries, from the association itself, from us or from other parties, such as that of my colleague Rohonyi. You do not seem to understand that the needs of the victims are completely different from what you propose. The Life4Brussels association even blames you, I quote, for denying the needs of the victims. The coaching project you put on the table does not meet the demands of those affected by the attacks of March 22, 2016. With the PTB, we support the victims as well as the Life4Brussels association and its demands. We think that you should pay more attention to them before imposing a project disconnected from needs. In May 2017, the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks made urgent recommendations. These include the creation of a guarantee fund to limit the multiplication of procedures and to avoid forcing victims to apply themselves to public or private bodies responsible for compensating them, the establishment of a single expertise available to all interlocutors, and the plurality of procedures requiring victims to submit to several expertises on identical issues. These recommendations have been on the table for more than four years now, but you refuse to follow them, Minister. You refuse to listen to and consider the demands of the Life4Brussels association, which defends the victims of the attacks and works hard to obtain measures commensurate with the shock that these people have suffered. Once again, we call upon you to give your ear and respond to this new call. Can you assure me that you will finally follow up on the recommendations of the commission of inquiry of May 2017, by allowing the creation of a guarantee fund and the establishment of a single expertise for all victims? Will you consider the demands of Life4Brussels in the future? Are you considering establishing a regular and more respectful contact with this victim support association? Are you going to review your project and your coaching proposal and instead offer access to trained specialists - such as lawyers, psychologists and social workers - as the victims ask and as is the case in France, for example? What are you planning to do to assess the neurological injuries of victims, as well as to train and sensitize professionals, such as doctors who are experts in this field?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u46	Colleagues, you ask me questions very regularly and often the same questions, so I will give you the same answers. With regard to your first question, Mrs Rohonyi, a terrorist attack is clearly an intentional act of violence. Since this terrorist attack is directed against people, it does not simply constitute the destruction of a monument or work of art with the aim of terrorizing the population. This intentional act of violence falls within the scope of the general provisions of the Tax and Other Measures Act of 1 August 1985. Victims or their beneficiaries may apply for financial assistance from the State, in accordance with this Act. In the days following the attacks of 22 March 2016, the Commission for Financial Assistance to Victims of Intentional Acts of Violence and Occasional Rescue opened cases for victims of the attacks and began to grant financial aid to victims without a specific law being required Article 36 of the Act of 1 August, which served as the legal basis for the Commission's intervention, allows emergency aid to be granted as soon as a complaint is lodged. It is clear that Article 42bis of the same Law, as introduced by Article 20 of the Law of 1 April 2007, is as it was in force at the time of the attacks of 2016, providing that the King may extend compensation to victims of terrorism, as defined in Article 2 of the Law of 1 April 2007. No royal decree or other provision was therefore necessary to implement the general provisions of the law of 1 August, since the law of 2007 simply gave the King the power to extend compensation or to adapt the obligations of victims taking into account the characteristics of terrorism. Even in the absence of such a decision, the 1985 Act clearly applied to victims of terrorism as well as to victims of any other intentional act of violence. Article 42bis in question was amended by Article 9 of the Law of 31 May 2016 amending the Law of 1 August 1985. Subsequent amendments to the Act were intended to exempt the victims of terrorism from acting against the perpetrators, co-authors and accomplices of the attacks, as it was clear that they would not compensate the victims. In this connection, the report to the King of the Royal Decree of 16 February 2017 states: "In order to be able to provide financial assistance more quickly to the many victims, among other things, of the tragic events of 22 March, certain provisions less relevant to terrorism are repealed, such as the obligation to obtain a sentence. A special regime has been put in place to enable these victims to have the opportunity to obtain what is known as primary assistance, i.e. potentially the maximum amount provided by law without waiting for the outcome of a trial against terrorists." It is also in this spirit that a specific aid item has been created to allow for the payment of legal fees limited to EUR 12,000. This is important because it demonstrates that, in the eyes of the legislator, the intervention of a lawyer alongside the victims of terrorism is justified outside a trial, as in negotiations with insurance companies. Victims of terrorism may apply to the Commission as soon as the attack is recognised by the Royal Decree and the three-year period begins to run for them from the publication of the order in the Belgian Moniteur. On the other hand, for victims of ordinary crime who have to wait for the outcome of the trial against the perpetrators, the three-year period begins to run from the final judgement. But these victims are not eligible for primary assistance prior to trial. In summary, and in your first question, terrorist attacks are intentional acts of violence, their victims do not have the obligation to avail themselves of the special provisions provided for victims of terrorism, but may apply for assistance, such as victims of ordinary crime, provided that the conditions laid down by law are respected. These victims will have to wait until the outcome of the trial for such a request. The government did not consider it necessary to draw the victims' attention to this specific point because it was merely a matter of logic and it seemed preferable to encourage victims of terrorism to benefit from the simplified rules allowing them to benefit more quickly from financial assistance. On Question No 2 by Mrs Rohonyi and Question No 1 by Mr Boukili, I have already given considerable thought in recent months, particularly following the exchange of views in the Joint Committee on Justice and the Interior, on the occasion of the commemoration of the fifth anniversary of 22 March 2016. On that occasion, I explained the initiatives under way in the previous government and the new initiatives. I said that, despite the many initiatives taken at various levels in recent years, not all victims were yet fully compensated by insurance companies for various reasons: because medical examinations are still under way according to the evolution of the injuries or because some victims have not yet accepted the compensation proposed by the insurance company. The government is working on a solution to fill the gaps in existing legislation, which means that insurance does not yet cover all damages. Very few people are personally insured for any damage that may be caused by an attack. Today, coverage often depends on the assurance of the location of the attack. On the proposal of my colleague, Minister Dermagne, the government will amend the 2007 Act. All victims of the attacks in Belgium must be compensated, whether insured or not. With regard to Mr Boukili's question B, the international non-profit association Life4Brussels was approved, by Royal Decree of 11 May 2021 – thus by me – as an association able to assist victims of terrorist acts, in the context of the measures taken by them towards the Commission for financial aid to victims of intentional acts of violence and occasional rescuers. On question C, the coaching project proposed by the V-Europe victims' association itself, which I have decided to support, complements other initiatives and does not substitute in any way for the intervention of lawyers, psychologists or social workers. Where you see a minus, I see a plus. I want to remind you of some things. First, article 42, sexies, of the 1985 Act provides since 2019 for intervention in the costs of counsel for victims, in order to allow them to be assisted by a legal professional, in particular during negotiations with insurance companies for compensation, without going through a trial. Second, victims who enter legal conditions may benefit from second-line legal aid and/or legal aid. Thirdly, as far as psychologists are concerned, the Act of 18 July 2017 on the creation of the national solidarity status entitles the victims to reimbursement of the costs of psychological care. Finally, as far as social workers are concerned, victims can benefit from the support of services organized by the communities. For your fourth question, Mr Boukili, as you know, the training of doctors does not fall within my remit. I invite you to ask the Minister of Health about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answer. I can understand that at some point, you're tired of giving us the same answers every time, but if we ask you again, it's because your answers are not satisfactory, not just for us but especially for the victims. Indeed, they are the ones who challenge us. They are the ones who are disappointed with the government's attitude. Today, you explain to us that the victims had the possibility of being compensated by intervention from the Commission for the financial aid which granted aid without the victims having to wait - fortunately - for the outcome of a criminal trial, except that to do so, as you know very well, they had to act within a short period of three years, which is now due. This period has expired, which means that a whole series of victims, still today, have not had the opportunity to submit their application in time or because they still have costs that they have to pay, whether it is legal fees for a trial that has not even begun or for personal injuries that worsen over time, etc. They still have costs for which they deserve compensation. This compensation was no longer possible until they learned "by chance" that they could be compensated on the basis of a claim as non-terrorism victims. You tell us that, of course, they can be compensated as victims outside terrorism, but after a trial, as if it were self-evident. If it was really self-evident, why was this information never given to them? How are there associations that have had to do this work to provide them with this valuable information? That is why we wanted to question you today, Minister. Today, what the victims feel is a state that is failing and that forces the associations to do the job for you. Victims need trials to rebuild themselves, but they also need state support to obtain information, to rebuild themselves and to be properly cared for. Otherwise, what is happening, minister, is that the victims are victims of what they have experienced a second time. I believe that this is an injustice which cannot last any longer and which deserves to be followed up on all the recommendations contained in the report of the Attentats Committee. That is why I have tabled a motion to that effect, the aim being really to support all the victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answers. You seem annoyed by our repeated inquiries on the subject, but we are also annoyed to always go back to the same things. We are annoyed to receive messages from victims who ask us to question you. We have seen the collapse of our state during the floods, and the same is true of the attacks. The state is completely absent and next to the plaque. You just confirmed that in your answer. You do not tell us why you do not implement the recommendations of the Attentats Committee. The Commission felt that things needed to be put in place to deal with an attack situation and to manage victims. You're throwing this in the trash! You are not putting in place the recommendations of this committee. You tell us that you have already answered the questions but, in fact, you do not do the work. You don't do what you're asked to do and what the victims expect from you. Next to that, you put money in a project that the victims themselves think is next to the plaque. That's not what you're expected to do. I don't know who should be annoyed to come back each time with the same elements. You can give the same answer each time but you are next to the plate and you do not answer the problem. When you talk about the fact that you approved Life4Brussels, what subsidy did you give him? None! You do not answer the problem and we will therefore come back with the same questions. You do not respect the recommendations and you do not want to put them in place. In addition, you are carrying a project that is completely disconnected. This shows how disconnected you are from the problem of the victims of the attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u49	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms. Sophie Rohonyi and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Sophie Rohonyi and Nabil Boukili and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, - having regard to European Directive 2012/29/EU of 25 October 2012 laying down minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime; - having regard to the Act of 18 July 2017 on the creation of the status of national solidarity, the granting of a compensation pension and the reimbursement of medical care following acts of terrorism; - having regard to the laws of 15 January and 3 February 2019 which regulate the granting of financial aid and advances to victims of violence and provide for a specific exception for victims of terrorism; - considering the too many victims of the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 who had to wait more than a year before being recognised as national solidarity; - considering victims residing abroad who receive, for some of them, their pension one year late; - Considering the absence of a single list of victims with a view to informing them of their rights and providing them with the necessary support; - Whereas it is the responsibility of the Federal State to provide adequate support to the victims of the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016; - Considering the Minister's reply to the Justice and Home Affairs Committees on 23 March 2021 on the Government's decision not to create a guarantee fund for the compensation of victims of terrorist attacks; - considering the decision of the previous government to use the insurance mechanism and, in particular, the subrogation mechanism to compensate victims of terrorist acts; - Considering the recommendation contained in the "Assistance and relief" section of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to examine the circumstances which led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016, that ‘without prejudice to the rights of victims on an individual basis, associations representing victims should be recognised, should receive administrative support and should be able to receive financial support'; - Whereas the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to examine the circumstances which led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 have only been partially implemented; - taking into account the legitimate and constant request of associations of victims of terrorist acts to extend the legal time limit for the submission of a request for financial assistance for victims of terrorism; - Whereas it is only through associations, and particularly the ISBL Life4Brussels, that certain victims have been informed of the possibility of applying for financial assistance outside the framework of ‘terrorist bombing'; - taking into account the white card of 15 September 2021 in which the members of the board of directors of ISBL Life4Brussels recall that Belgium was reclassified to the worst European pupils, on the understanding that it had not fully implemented the rules, in particular, in Directive 2012/29/EU of 25 October 2012 laying down minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime; recommends to the Government - to implement, as soon as possible, all the recommendations made by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to examine the circumstances which led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016, so that the legitimate demands of the victims can finally be met; - to have a single list of the victims of the attacks of 22 March 2016 in order to inform them of their rights and to provide them with the necessary support; - analyse the reasons why victims of attacks have not been informed of their right to be financially assisted outside the framework of ‘terrorist bombing'; - to examine the request of associations of victims of terrorist acts to extend the time limit for applying for financial assistance for victims of terrorism, on the basis of the recognition of the event as an act of terrorism, and at the latest within three years from the date on which it was finally decided by a final decision." A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Sophie Rohonyi and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Ms Sophie Rohonyi and Mr Nabil Boukili and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - having regard to the European Directive 2012/29/EU of 25 October 2012 laying down minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime; - having regard to the Law of 18 July 2017 on the establishment of the Statute for National Solidarity, the granting of a recovery pension and the reimbursement of medical care resulting from acts of terrorism, - having regard to the laws of 15 January and 3 February 2019, which regulate the granting of financial assistance and advances to victims of violence and provide for a specific exception for victims of terrorism; - having regard to the excessive number of victims of the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 who have waited more than a year for the status of national solidarity to be granted; - having regard to the victims residing abroad, some of whom receive their pensions with a year's delay; - having regard to the lack of a single victim list to inform them of their rights and to provide them with the necessary support; - whereas it is the responsibility of the federal government to provide adequate assistance to the victims of the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016; - having regard to the reply of the Minister in the Joint Committees on Justice and Home Affairs of 23 March 2021 concerning the Government's decision not to set up a guarantee fund for the compensation of victims of terrorist attacks; - having regard to the previous government's decision to use the insurance mechanism, and in particular the subrogation mechanism, to compensate victims of terrorist acts, - having regard to the recommendation of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the circumstances which led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016, which provides for the recognition of representative victims' associations and both administrative and financial support, without prejudice to the individual rights of victims, - whereas the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, responsible for examining the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016, were only partially implemented; - having regard to the legitimate and persistent demand of the associations of victims of terrorist acts to extend the legal deadline for the submission of a request for financial assistance for the victims of terrorism; - whereas it is solely thanks to associations, and in particular to the Life4Brussels Ivzw, that some victims were informed of the possibility of submitting a request for financial assistance outside the framework of a terrorist attack; - having regard to the opinion paper of 15 September 2021 in which the members of the Management Board of the Ivzw Life4Brussels recalled that Belgium was among the worst pupils of Europe because it had not fully implemented the rules laid down in particular Directive 2012/29/EU of 25 October 2012 laying down minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of criminal offences; recommends that the government: - to implement as soon as possible all the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 so that the legitimate demands of the victims could finally be met; - ensure that a single list of victims of the attacks of 22 March 2016 is available in order to inform them of their rights and to provide them with the necessary support; - examine the reasons why the victims of the attacks were not informed of their right to be financially supported outside the framework of the terrorist attack; - examine the question of associations of victims of acts of terrorism in order to extend the time limit for the submission of applications for financial aid for the victims of terrorism, from the recognition of the event as an act of terrorism, and not later than three years from the date on which a final decision was reached in the event of a final decision being taken.' A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Sophie Rohonyi and Nabil Boukili and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, - Whereas on 22 March 2016, 32 people were killed in the Brussels attacks and more than 300 people were injured in Brussels; whereas many others were deeply affected by the attacks, including first responders, family members of the killed and injured and those caught in the attacks but not physically injured; - whereas victims and their families are still faced with inextricable situations which delay their reconstruction, that nothing has been put in place for the care of first responders, that huge gaps persist in the provision of guarantees for the optimal protection of their right to health, their right to access to justice, their right to the truth and their right to effective and prompt compensation; - Whereas to date, five years after the facts, nothing has been done to allow a single interlocutor, a single expert, a single appeal procedure; - Considering that, under international instruments, victims of terrorist acts are entitled to material, social, legal and psychological assistance and that, following her visit to Belgium in 2018, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on human rights expressed deep concern at the daily experiences of the victims on 22 March; - Considering that these findings are symptomatic of incomplete measures, and more generally of the inadequacy of the measures taken by the Government and that this delay in assisting victims leads to a phenomenon of secondary victimization, a new source of disorder and stress; - Whereas the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry which states the importance of the difficulties faced by the victims of the attacks of 22 March 2016 due to the plurality of debtors of compensation such as ‘financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence, DGWar, insurance, mutuals, etc.' (p. 10 DOC 54 1752/007 - 4 May 2017); - Whereas the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry recommends that ‘Belgium should establish a system which, instead of offering subsidiary aid which obliges the victim to apply itself to public or private bodies responsible for indemnifying him or her, provides for the creation of a fund which will be able to allocate to him or her, within the shortest possible time, aids and allowances, responsible for recovering what is owed by the insurance companies.' (p. 24 DOC 54 1752/007-4 May 2017); - Whereas all the foreign systems studied in the annexes to the French report of February 2017 stress the need for a centralised structure (France), a Federal Office (Germany), a National Insurance Fund (Israel), a Directorate-General (Spain), an Office for the Compensation of Victims (Norway); - Whereas the "one-stop shop" which currently exists is, in the end, only an information window and does not in any way regulate the obligation on victims to run behind insurance, the Commission for financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence and the Federal Pension Service for the award of a compensation pension; - Whereas the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry recommends the establishment of a single expertise for all interlocutors (Doc. 1752/007 p. 24 - 4 May 2017); - Considering the open letter addressed to you by the Life4Brussels Victim Support Association on Wednesday, 15 September; - Whereas the almost unanimous opinion of the persons who responded to Life4Brussels' inquiry into your coaching project is opposed; - Considering that the Minister's draft has not yet begun when it was due to begin in July 2021 and that no decree has entered into force since March; - considering the urgency and importance of the human dimension in this dossier; asks the government - to implement the recommendations of the commission of inquiry of May 2017 by allowing the creation of a guarantee fund and the establishment of a single expertise for all these victims; - to abandon his coaching project and delay it because it does not meet the expectations of the victims; - to establish regular, sustainable and respectful contact with Life4Brussels and to take into account the needs of the victims of attacks reported by this association." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Ms Sophie Rohonyi and Mr Nabil Boukili and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - whereas on 22 March 2016, 32 people were killed in the attacks in Brussels and more than 300 were injured. Many others were severely affected by the attacks, such as the first aid workers, the families of the dead and wounded and the persons present at the sites of the attacks but not physically injured. - whereas the victims and their families are still faced with extremely complex situations that delay their recovery, that nothing has been done to guide the first aid workers, that there are still huge gaps in ensuring the optimum protection of their right to health, their right to access to justice, their right to truth and their right to effective and rapid compensation; - whereas to date, five years after the facts, nothing has been done to establish a single point of contact, or to allow for a single expertise and a single appeal procedure; - considering that the victims of terrorist acts under international instruments have the right to material, social, legal and psychological support and that the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Human Rights, as a result of her visit to Belgium in 2018, indicated that she was extremely concerned about what the victims of 22 March experienced on a daily basis; - whereas these findings indicate that the measures are incomplete and, more generally, that the measures taken by the government are inadequate, and that this delay in helping the victims results in a phenomenon of secondary victimisation, which in turn is an additional source of disturbances and stress; - whereas the parliamentary committee of inquiry, which finds that the victims of the attacks of 22 March 2016 are experiencing major difficulties due to a multitude of responding bodies, refers to the Commission's report on financial assistance to victims of intentional violence, DG War, insurance companies, sickness funds, etc. (p. 10 DOC 54 1752/007 - 4 May 2017); - whereas the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry advises that, for the future, Belgium should develop a system that would instead of providing subsidiary assistance, which would require the victim to turn to the public or private institutions responsible for compensating him/her for the creation of a fund that would allow the victim to grant aid and compensation within the shortest possible time, and subsequently recover from the insurance companies what they owe (p. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 2000000. - whereas all foreign systems, which were examined in the annexes to the French report of February 2017, call for the need for a centralised structure (France), a federal service (Germany), a national insurance cash (Israel), a general management (Spain), a victim compensation service (Norway); - whereas the current single point of contact is, in the end, no more than a point of contact and that this point does not in any way provide a solution to the fact that the victims are forced to go to the insurance sector on a continuous basis, the Commission for financial assistance to victims of intentional violence and the Federal Pension Service for the granting of a recovery pension; - whereas the parliamentary committee of inquiry recommends the establishment of a single expertise which is contrary to all the parties involved (Doc. 54-1752/007 p. 24 - 4 May 2017); - whereas the Life4Brussels Victims Association sent you an open letter on Wednesday 15 September; - whereas almost everyone who participated in the Life4Brussels survey on your coaching project reports that they are opposed to that project; - whereas the Minister's project has not yet been launched, although it should have started in July 2021 and no decision has been taken since March; - having regard to the urgency and importance of the human dimension of this dossier, calls on the Government - implement the recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry of May 2017 by enabling the establishment of a guarantee fund and the introduction of a single expertise for all these victims; - abandon the Minister's coaching project, which he postpones because it does not meet the expectations of the victims; - establish regular, lasting and respectful contact with the association Life4Brussels and take into account the needs of the victims of attacks represented by that association." A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u50	Minister, a new international investigation, the Pandora Papers, has just been published, notably by the newspaper Le Soir. This is the largest survey ever conducted on tax havens. This survey shows how wealthy people manage to escape tax payment. This situation completely fills the budget of the states: we are talking about more than 29,000 beneficiaries of screen companies, of which 35 heads of state and 133 billionaires – 1,217 Belgian residents are concerned, including members of the richest families in the country and of the nobility, including... a prince. Such surveys are particularly profitable. According to FPS Finance figures, €635 million has been recovered in recent years thanks to the various "leaks". The fight against big tax fraud is profitable. I would like to ask you whether an investigation in Belgium has already been launched? Have people ever been identified? Do you have any idea of the total amount involved? In view of these repeated scandals, do you intend to place more emphasis on the fight against tax evasion? An audit is under way in Brussels by the CSJ. Has it reached any intermediate conclusions to date? What is the state of play?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u51	Minister, this week a major investigation called Pandora Papers came to light. The situation is well known. I am particularly concerned about the consequences of this. Are we prepared for this? These are 1,200 cases where there may be a connection with organised crime. Those files will end up in the courthouse and the investigating judge. In cases where tax fraud is purely a matter of tax fraud, there are two possibilities. With the possibility of deciding to handle the files fiscally and administratively according to the "una via" legislation. Certain serious crimes could be forwarded for criminal proceedings, including an investigative judge or an investigation carried out by the public prosecutor. The question is whether we are ready for that. In addition to all other fraud files forwarded to the Justice Department, there will be further heavy files within a few months or years. Minister, what is your response to this week's information? In what way will there be anticipating a possible influx of files from the prosecutors and investigators? How will you ensure that these files are handled with sufficient expertise? How do you work with the other relevant ministers on this dossier? I am thinking of Minister Van Peteghem in relation to finance and Minister Verlinden in support of the police. We need specialist investigators if criminal investigations are to be launched. In what way will there be cooperation with other countries whose nationals or residents are involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u52	Like you, ladies and gentlemen, it was through the press that I learned the existence of the Pandora Papers. The same applies to Justice. The journalists in question are reluctant to share their information with the judiciary. As a result, there are currently no ongoing criminal investigations. I said "currently." The Federal Public Prosecutor's Office has not opened any investigations following the recent press releases concerning the Pandora Papers. It goes without saying, however, that Justice, the police and the tax authorities are following this matter very closely. The prosecution has, of course, taken note of the reports in the media and is currently analysing the reports. In this context, it will also be examined, together with the federal judicial police, whether criminal investigations can be opened and, if so, how. Of course, it is one thing for journalists to obtain documents, but in a judicial file, the first thing that makes the opposing party verify that the documents have been obtained lawfully. We must therefore show some caution there. Other elements such as the legitimate acquisition of evidence, the possibility of smooth cooperation with foreign judicial authorities and others are also addressed in the judicial review of such cases. However, I would not be too concerned, as the public prosecutor has gained a great deal of experience in similar cases, particularly the Panama Papers, which, thanks to the caiman tax and the effective action of the tax authorities and the judiciary, have generated a lot of revenue. In fact, I spoke about it with an Attorney General this afternoon and I can tell you that there is a great deal of preparation being made for the resolution of this Pandora Papers. If, therefore, there are indications of tax fraud or criminal offences in general, the tax authorities and the judiciary will not hesitate to decide, either through the 'una' consultation or through the College for the fight against tax and social fraud, in which the services of the Minister of Finance and my services are together, which body will launch an investigation if necessary. Fraud, offshore constructions and tax evasion are ways of scamting the Belgian State and therefore you and me. These are facts that we take very seriously. I come back to the question about the audit of the Supreme Council of Justice (SCJ). It is indeed in progress. This audit is not specifically focused on the fight against tax fraud. It has six themes, namely: the number of cases pending – i.e. backlogs; productivity within the Court; the way in which previous audits have been conducted; the mega-trials to be foreseen in the future; the specificities of the Brussels Court and how they affect the Court; and the situation of staff. The YSC hopes to be able to present the results by the end of the year. Of course, some of the cases pending before the Court of Brussels concern tax matters. However, as you know, I did not wait for the results of this audit to release specific budgets for judges and for the recruitment of additional staff, in order to deal with the backlog in the Brussels Court of Appeal. Then I come to Mr Van Hecke's question about how we want to tackle this type of crime. The fact is that, in this area, we are generally faced with very complex investigations, particularly in terms of the burden of proof, often with ramifications in other countries where the money is parked, but also because of the procedure. It is no secret to anyone that the proceedings are sometimes very long, not least because of the accused themselves. Why am I saying this? I do not want to use this as an excuse, but I want to make it clear that we face very great challenges in this area and a solution is not so obvious. How are we going to step up this fight? First of all, investing in the Justice Department. We invest in additional staff for Justice for the whole country. You know that, but we are also investing in the Justice Department very specifically in this area. Both the prosecution and the courts provide specialised magistrates and support for dealing with financial and tax fraud. We are going to invest EUR 1.7 million in 30 additional people, specifically for financial and tax fraud. We offer tailor-made training. Through the extra commitment to the criminal execution investigation, we are looking for the possessions of convicted persons in order to be able to enforce the fines and forfeiture. In this way, we are finally going to apply the 2014 law. In addition, we also provide 1.45 million euros for 24 additional employees. For international cooperation, Mr Van Hecke, there are appropriate channels such as the JITs, coordination through Europol and Eurojust. At the level of the police, the detectives, so I refer to the Mercurial of Attorney General Delmulle, since the end of last year we have opened up more than 600 vacancies within the FGP to cope with the calving of staff effectiveness in the police, including for specialised profiles such as the ecofin and bald picking domains. Unfortunately, more than half of these vacancies remain without a response. That is, of course, worrying. The causes are diverse and adapted branding campaigns are necessary. The State General of the Police was launched by my colleague from the Interior. We must also consider possible other solutions in the absence of sufficient investigators. We should perhaps consider how, in consultation with Finance, we can send more and better tax officials to the public prosecutors in order to conduct the investigations there. If we put specialized people in the courthouse together with specialized people in the tax administration, we can come up with very good solutions. We will leave nothing to chance and do everything in our power to improve cooperation in the areas of financial and economic crime, justice, police and finance. In any case, within this government there are a number of people who are absolutely committed to this. I refer to my colleagues in Finance and Home Affairs. I also refer to my services. As you know, the College of Attorney General regards these cases as a priority. I refer once again to the meeting I had this afternoon with, among other things, the Attorney General, where we specifically discussed this dossier. I've seen the Attorney General's commitment. The preparations are in full swing to deal with these dossiers properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answer. I heard there's no investigation yet, but you're considering it. On the other hand, I wonder if Justice really has the means to conduct this investigation. There is already a huge backlog of cases and it would arise when the Brussels prosecutor declared that he had files closed for lack of resources. We're going to have to go straight ahead to deal with these huge files. Unfortunately, what we are often told is that vacancies remain unanswered. I therefore wonder whether every effort is being made to ensure that the framework is completed. Is this a real priority? When you want to fill a cadre of inspectors, in my opinion, you have to do everything you can to get there. In this case, I have the impression that this is not the case. We put an offer on the site and wait. I would remind you that in the context of the tax evasion issue, Judge Michel Claise pointed out in the press that this kind of leak amounted to giving a keyless safe! There is a need to strengthen the services responsible for financial crime through a vigorous policy. It would be appropriate to put as much energy into this matter as that placed in the pursuit of bicycle thieves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think it is very positive that the Attorney General you have spoken to is preparing to deal with this. This means that we are already considering how the dossiers will be dealt with over the next few weeks, perhaps months. I think there are a lot of challenges. You referred to the discussion on the evidence legally obtained. We do have experience of this and I hope that they will learn from it. It is not an easy dossier, but one can get away with it. Secondly, the need for capacity and knowledge. You do indeed have plans to organise reinforcements within the Justice Department, both for the prosecutors and for the seat, in order to acquire more know-how in such files. We must also be honest, Minister. Oh, well, this is gonna pay off, too. The recruitment of 10, 20 or 30 people will repay themselves, because there will be a larger return on investment for the government. The greatest challenge indeed lies with the detectives. We all know that the FGP has a big problem in recruiting good profiles, especially in that domain. I am very concerned about that, but I am also surprised and pleased with your solution. You yourself say that we may have to send people from the BBI or the tax administration to the parquets. This used to exist before the Taxpayer's Charter was introduced. I am actually very pleased that you, as a liberal minister, are allowing the opening to review the taxpayer's Charter and to lift the divisions between tax and justice in order to move towards much better cooperation. This is really very important in the fight against tax fraud. It is important that the government is armed to tackle such crimes vigorously and efficiently. I am therefore very pleased with your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u55	Meanwhile, Mr Laaouej has arrived. I'm sorry, but this is really the last question. You can still replicate, but I do not know if that is possible because the question has already been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic596x.u56	Indeed, Madam President, that would be a little incongruous. But I listened to the lines of my colleagues. I found that the questions had the same purpose. I will therefore stick to the minister's answer, but we want to hear it in the Finance Committee. We just programmed it. This will give us an opportunity to have a debate with him.
