ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u1	Madam Secretary of State, the statistics on domestic violence are worrying and the health crisis that we are experiencing has not fixed anything. Indeed, the line of listening "conjugal violence" saw its phone numbers triple during the first confinement. Consequently, following the recommendations of the Interministerial Conference on Women's Rights, the Walloon Minister for Women's Rights and Health and pharmacists' associations have worked together to actively involve this profession in the fight against domestic violence. Since 25 November, International Day to Combat Violence against Women, the 1,800 Walloon pharmacies have thus become relays for the referral of victims of domestic violence to specialized care and support services or to the police. This is in line with my motion for a resolution to set up, in partnership with pharmacies, an alert system for victims of domestic violence. Moreover, this text was adopted by the House last June. Madam Secretary of State, can you tell us what progress has been made in implementing this resolution in the various regions of the country? Can you already provide us with figures on the number of victims who have used this system?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u2	Combating violence between partners is a major focus for our country in the context of the health crisis. You know my commitment on this issue. The federal government adopted on 20 November, at my initiative, a federal action plan to combat gender and domestic violence, following the second wave of covid-19. In addition, gender-based violence is at the heart of the work of the Interministerial Conference on Women's Rights. This work is expected to culminate in a series of new specific measures in January. In addition, I would soon like to draw up a new multi-year national action plan to combat gender-based violence in addition to the various action plans already adopted at the level of the federated entities. As far as pharmacies are concerned, in recent months local authorities have worked to set up a system of assistance in pharmacies to support victims, such as initiatives in Mons in partnership with the Western and Central Hainaut Pharmaceutical Union (UPHOC) or in Liège where the authorities conducted a pilot project and established a vademecum containing all the information needed to help victims. These initiatives have been welcomed and supported by various parliaments in the country, in particular through your resolution, which I have also supported. In Wallonia, this pharmacy relay device was implemented by Minister Morreale last November. I do not yet have reliable information on the number of people who have used this system. I would therefore refer you to the Walloon authorities for further information. The same applies to the situation in Brussels. In Flanders, the Flemish pharmacist network Vlaams Apothekers Netwerk (VAN) has concluded agreements with the CAW to help detect cases of domestic violence. Thus, a victim can contact a pharmacist by asking for a "mask 19". The pharmacist can invite the victim to give his contact information and contact the CAW on 1712 for help. Nor, as far as I am aware, are there any reliable figures on the use of this system at present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. It is true that it is not easy to have figures on the problem, but these will prove extremely interesting in the coming weeks and months, because we did not expect to have to live a second – or even a third – confinement. In the end, we will have been confined for more than a year and, for those who continue to live alongside their executioner, the situation is particularly complicated, hence the importance of this device via pharmacies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u4	We did have a small technical problem. I think it wasn't the right microphone that was on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u5	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, at the end of November an analysis by the newspaper De Morgen, based on figures from the RVA, showed that corona parents' leave was mainly taken by women. In September, even 75% of corona parents' leave was taken by women. Compared to the ordinary parental leave we had before the corona crisis, and fortunately still do, women's share is now much higher. In 2019, women's share was 67.7% for the take-up of ordinary parental leave, a share which has also fallen steadily since 2015. So there is a slight positive evolution. Once again, unfortunately, we have to note that this corona crisis is affecting women much more strongly and is working in a role-based manner. It is still mainly women who make time and ask for leave to take care of the children, especially now that other reception facilities, such as for the care of a sick child, are limited. During this crisis, we seem to be increasingly falling back on traditional role patterns, and thus on an uneven distribution of care tasks within the family. We need an integrated approach, across competences, in order to counter this unfortunate evolution. In what way will you take the lead in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u6	Mr President, Mrs Willaert, the COOVID-19 crisis has once again shown that a balanced distribution of care tasks remains a major stumbling block for society. While the COVID-19 crisis gave the opportunity to achieve a greater balance in the distribution of domestic tasks between men and women, a major change remained. For example, the time spent research of the VUB shows. The mass homework by both men and women and the need to accommodate the children created the opportunity for men to take on more household tasks. However, the studies showed that traditional roles were maintained, except for a small increase in the uptake of routine household tasks. Flexible work was necessarily on the agenda of many companies, but the search for the right balance between work and private life, especially among workers with children or other care tasks, is still not evident. On 8 October 2020, the Institute for Gender Equality organised a first webinar for companies on COVID-19 and gender equality in the workplace. During this webinar, some companies presented concrete measures that they have put in place to support their workers with or without children during the sanitary crisis. The webinar was widely attended and picked up in the press, and several companies provided ideas for action on their own floor. The Institute will continue to provide a forum for organisations to exchange information and inspiration. For this purpose, companies can already access the online database of good business practice on gender diversity policies. The Institute will continue to expand and update this database in order to respond to the current challenges in society. The European project Parents At Work, for which the institute is a project coordinator, focuses on the direct awareness of employers and employees about the various leave systems and the support of parents in the workplace. This project will publish all material and conclusions widely in the course of 2021. Finally, during this period, the Institute will carry out various studies on the inclusion and awareness of the various leave schemes in order to prepare for the reform of parental leave and the various other leave schemes. A first study will deal with the general development of the distribution of leave and working time arrangements between men and women, such as time credits, career breaks and parental leave. A second study will give fathers a pulse on their experiences with paternity leave. Both studies will provide more insight into the motivations of both mothers and fathers for taking leave for domestic and family responsibilities. Based on these results, targeted recommendations and actions can be developed to encourage the inclusion of different leave systems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u7	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. You have stressed the importance of involving companies, companies and employers. That is indeed very important, in my view. I also believe that a change of attitude is needed in the workplace. For example, we have ensured that when a school or a class closes because of corona, parents are entitled to temporary unemployment. Some colleagues here were afraid that the door would now be wide open. But I've seen in practice how much timid and fear people have to actually take up that right. Many companies are already very far into this and give extra leave. They also give fathers more leave than is legally necessary. That is a good thing. However, I think that we still have to make a massive effort to change the mentality. This must be taken into account in the workplace. As far as paternity leave and maternity leave are concerned, we must also ensure that as many thresholds as possible are removed. I am very much looking forward to the two studies you have mentioned. They will give us a lot of information that is useful for the work that is still on the table for us here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u8	Mr President, once again I have an atypical question for the committee. The Administrative Board of the Institute for Gender Equality shall be empowered, inter alia, to advise on its own initiative or at the request of the Minister responsible or of the Executive Board, on any question relating to the Institute's statutory tasks, which shall have other powers. It shall be composed of 14 members with a voting right and three members with an advisory vote. Surprise everywhere, thirteen of the 14 voting members of the board are women. The only man entitled to vote is a representative of the Igbt community. The Gender Advisory Committee was composed in the same way last legislative term. I think that's a strange situation. As far as I'm concerned, gender equality works in two directions. That doesn't seem to be the case here. On the contrary, there is a slight impression that a man cannot have an opinion on equal rights between men and women, or that it would be less valuable, which I strongly wish to combat. Article 8 of the Royal Decree establishing the organic status of the Institute for Equality between Women and Men states that the members are proposed by the Council of Ministers. In Flanders there is the MEP Decree to promote a more balanced participation of women and men in the advisory and administrative bodies of the Flemish government. It shall represent at least one third of each sex. At federal level, according to the Institute's response, this obligation appears to exist only for the Advisory Councils, not for the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. You say in your policy paper that you want a more balanced composition of the Management Board. How do you assess the fact that there are 13 women and one person with voting rights on that board? In what way do you want to ensure that the board is effectively balanced and reflects equality between men and women, which is ultimately also the key task?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u9	Ms Van Peel, the Royal Decree of 19 March 2003 establishing the organisational status of the IGVM provides that the members of the Governing Board are to be appointed by royal decree by the Council of Ministers on the proposal of the competent Minister or State Secretary. In fact, in accordance with Article 8, it must ensure that the presence of women and men on the board of directors is ensured and that gender balance is sought. There is therefore no obligation to respect a certain quorum in the nomination and appointment of members. Nor is there an obligation to do so in accordance with the law of 20 July 1990, which lays down rules on the nomination of members and the composition of the Management Board and provides that both a female and a male candidate shall be nominated per mandate and that no more than two of the three members shall have the same sex. The Institute is not an advisory body within the meaning of the 1990 Law. Of course, I want to strive for a balanced composition of these and all other boards of directors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u10	Madam Secretary of State, I mentioned those royal decisions myself in my question, and I already know that there is no obligation to do so. That's not what I asked. I did ask you if you think the current composition of the Institute for Equality between Women and Men is normal? You may have the idea, I understand that you will not make that statement to me again very quickly, that, when it comes to women's rights, men should not be involved too much. At least that is what I remember from your policy paper. I think that is a very bad evolution, which also reflects this. I have not heard from you that you want to respond specifically to the point about imbalance. I have the impression that the imbalances are only in one direction. I am very sorry that your answer is nothing more than a repetition of what is in the question. Anyway, thanks anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u11	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the subject of my question has already been raised by Mrs Willaert. She's about an article from the end of November 2020. The question dates from the end of December 2020. The article states that the corona crisis is distorting gender equality twenty-five years ago. That concludes a study by the United Nations. The main finding of the study is that the crisis pushes women and especially working mothers out of the labour market and pushes them back to the hearth, including in Belgium. Before the corona crisis, women were doing three times as much unpaid work as men. Since the pandemic, the gap has only widened. In particular, domestic tasks and family care are placed on the shoulders of women. Moreover, due to the closure of schools and the insufficient provision of affordable childcare services by the government, many families had to decide to stop working in order to take care of the children. This was usually the case for women, because women tend to have less pay, more often working part-time and less job security. The figures from the RVA on the inclusion of corona parents' leave, as Mrs Willaert mentioned, also show that women, in particular, stay home much more and take care of the children. The fact that people go back to classical role patterns in times of crisis is only one cause of the problem. There is, of course, also the gender pay gap, which is still there and which causes the overrepresentation of women in low-paid sectors, with many part-time jobs and precarious statutes. This provides a structural basis for the problem of the unequal distribution of paid and unpaid labour between men and women. The wage gap is further exacerbated in the current crisis by the fact that female sectors have been particularly hard hit by mass temporary unemployment, either due to high risk of contagion with many quarantine periods resulting in women falling back to 70% of their income. My questions to you are the following. What will you do to know this evil evolution towards the classical role patterns and the distribution of paid and unpaid labour? How do you intend to address the growing wage gap? Will you urge your colleagues to increase temporary unemployment to 100% of the wage? You will ensure that parents can use sufficiently affordable childcare facilities, both now and in normal times, so that child care can no longer be a trigger for gender inequality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u12	Mrs Vindevoghel, this crisis increases social inequalities. Citizens did not all experience the same impact of the epidemic and the measures to combat it. They were just the most vulnerable groups that were most affected. Undervalued and often underpaid sectors, which often consist mostly of women, were suddenly in the front line and were more exposed to the disease. Since the World Conference on Women held in Beijing in September 1995, Belgium has committed itself to strengthening equality between women and men in society by integrating the gender dimension into public policy as a whole. It must be said that things have generally evolved in the right direction, but not fast enough or far enough. For the current legislature, the challenge is to ensure that policies developed by the government within all areas of competence contribute to a concrete evolution in society towards greater equality between men and women. The government agreement of 30 September 2020 states that the government will pursue an active gender policy and a voluntaristic gender policy, addressing structural and historical imbalances. Monitoring will be stepped up. Gender equality is a fundamental value, to which the government actively contributes in the field of domestic policy and which it contributes to the greatest extent in international fora. I am committed to encouraging and coordinating the implementation of the 2007 gender mainstreaming law and all its provisions, thus integrating the gender dimension into all government policies, programmes and actions. The objective of this transversal integration is that all policies contribute to strengthening equality between women and men and to addressing structural and historical imbalances. I will provide sufficient resources to accompany and implement this process. This year I will coordinate the development with the implementation of a new federal plan gender mainstreaming. This plan will be based on policies with an important gender dimension, identified for each member of the government in his or her policy statement on the basis of the provision of the gender mainstreaming law. This plan will be followed up through the six-monthly interim follow-up reports to the Council of Ministers and the final report will be presented to Parliament. The Institute will continue its support and accompanying role in the implementation of the plan. I also intend to strengthen legislation on the pay gap in order to make it more effective. The glass ceiling and the sticky floor are phenomena that I will fight with various initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u13	Madam Secretary of State, the book Quand le monde s'arrête, les femmes perpetuent lies before me. A lot of women were the heroes of the corona crisis. They can therefore be rewarded for that. I am certainly surprised that you will address this in different areas. That's very important. There are often walls between different domains now. In an intervention following a resolution on women, for example, I put forward proposals on economic measures to be taken. Many people, including in this hemisphere, still do not see how important it is to link these measures together. The economics is also very important to overcome the pay gap and to ensure that women are equally able to participate in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u14	Question No 55011823C by Mr Lacroix is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u15	Madam Secretary of State, on December 10th, the collective Imazi.Reine organized with the Centre Librex a virtual discussion in safe space, i.e. in non-mixity, and I quote them "without cis-hetero men and without white people". I understand the interest of these safe spaces: meeting one another at certain times can release the word further, except when it comes to public exclusion. Then we're in another register. This event was very public, as the meeting benefited from wide dissemination on social networks. It was therefore accessible to the general public and was widely publicized. However, if such an event is considered public, we no longer find ourselves in the concept of safe space and self-determination. This event therefore explicitly excluded categories of people on the basis of unacceptable discrimination (skin colour, gender, sexual practices) but wanted in a unanimous manner by the organizers. These public exclusions are, I believe, unacceptable, as they are racism and unjustifiable and intolerable sexism. As I have already had the opportunity to say, when we leave universalism to migrate to separatism, communitarianism or "racialism", we are no longer motivated by the universal and fundamental values that are accepted and shared by everyone. On the contrary, we rely on separate or even opposite identities. In my view, it is a matter of concern that publicly funded organizations defend and endorse such events. So, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you two questions. What are you going to do to ensure that this kind of public event that excludes people on the basis of their origin, sex or skin colour does not happen again in the future? Are you planning meetings with associations organizing such events? I thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for the answers that you would like to give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u16	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, as Mr Bacquelaine has just recalled, in December 2020, the collective Imazi.Reine, together with the Centre Librex, PointCulture Bruxelles and the ASBL La Maison du Livre, organised a workshop in non-mixed choice reserved for "women queers racialized". This choice sparked controversy and sparked a media debate on the chosen non-mixity that was surely useful. Without describing them exhaustively here, the criticism was that this type of activity would demonstrate gender-based and racialist drift, and that it would be the syndrome of a broad movement of social, cultural or sexual non-mixity. The organizers and other feminist voices, on the other hand, stress the importance of non-mixed spaces chosen for minority groups, presented as spaces for emancipation and in some cases of security – safe places, as Bacquelaine said – oriented towards a more inclusive and just society. I also note that several associations are still today based on gender non-mixedness. Among other things, the Cercle Royal Gaulois Artistique et Littéraire exclusively masculine whose activities are oriented, according to their website, towards "members of the government, ambassadors, parliamentarians, magistrates or university professors, representatives of liberal professions or business leaders, artists or men of letters" and whose social object is the organization of concerts, exhibitions, conferences but also pleasure such as bridge, hunting, and old cars. Note that I am not at all exhaustive here but giving some examples allows to get into a general context. There is also the ManKind Project, whose mission is to offer training and personal development programmes to men alone, including the so-called "new warrior" orientated to personal accomplishment in order to live their human maturity in a full and complete manner. I will mention again the organization of Freemasonry of the Great East which organizes itself into two federations in chosen non-mixity and a mixed federation. Finally, I note that, in many places of official power, men remain largely over-represented, thus presenting situations of de facto non-mixedness or suffering. Madam Secretary of State, what difference do you make between mixedness, chosen non-mixity and suffered non-mixity? What are the short-term prospects for effective mix in places of power?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u17	Mr President, Mr Bacquelaine, Mrs de Laveleye, thank you for your questions. I will begin by noting what seems to me to be some confusion in Mr Bacquelaine's question about sexual practices, whereas heterosexuality or homosexuality, for example, are sexual orientations that do not lead to particular sexual practices. The same applies to the term cisgenre which corresponds to a specific gender and which is not a matter of sex but of gender identity. I think it is important for us all to be clear about the definition of gender identity, gender expression, sex or sexual orientation in this House in order to understand each other well. I am also quite surprised at the way you present this event. It was to my knowledge a project aimed at a specific audience, namely women and non-white LGBTQI+ people, and not a project to exclude anyone. To answer you too, Madame de Laveleye, what I think is essential to clarify here is that there is a significant difference of nature between a non-mixedness suffered, which is imposed by citizens in a position to do so, who are holders of a form of power (such as different forms of segregation, apartheid, censorship or exclusion of women from the right to vote), and a non-mixity which is chosen by a minority or minority population with a temporary project of political emancipation. In the non-mixity chosen as that of the event of Imazi.Reine, it is not a project of society or separatism but rather the establishment of a strategic political tool, an area of freedom in order to strengthen the consciences and weapons of the participants in the face of various discriminations to which they might be subjected. I would like to recall here that many organizations have had to adapt to the conditions of the crisis. The event organized by Imazi.Reine was initially a face-to-face event that was to take place as part of a day of workshops. So it was a workshop among others. Workshops were to be held on allies, i.e. those who are in solidarity with people who are discriminated against. It was in the beginning within a global framework that this had to be organised. But everyone had to reinvent themselves and organize an event by broadcasting it via social networks as was the case with the event that is taking us. The interest of this kind of event is that it allows for the sharing of personal experiences, discrimination or a system of domination, bringing together the individuals concerned without having to justify their feeling of injustice, without having to justify their experience, without having to reassure or take into account any partners not concerned. It is also an opportunity to exchange around a culture, a collective identity in a secure space (hence the benevolent safe space) and finally to develop its political autonomy without having to wait to be included by the goodwill of the majority movements as described by my colleague at Laveleye. This method of organisation is therefore momentary and confined to certain specific audiences, concerned by a common problem. This was already used in the late 1960s for civil rights movements or in the 1970s by the feminist movement, including the lesbian movement. We could make a parallel. Since the employer is not invited to discuss working conditions at a union meeting, men are not necessarily invited to participate in exchanges between women on sexual and gender-based violence, nor are people who do not drink alcohol at an anonymous alcohol meeting. The need to work in a non-mixed manner may be seen as a failure of living together, but it is on the grounds that some marginalized groups resort to it that real responsibility must be sought. In the case of Imazi.Reine, it was a matter of exchanging in an event to combat, among other things, sexism and systemic racism. Unia, for example, which you were talking about, and which we were talking about this morning in committee, recorded 951 cases filed for racist acts in 2019. And 2020 was no brighter. It is noted that the increase in these reports shows a problem that remains very present in society, and which obviously causes victims. They seek answers, at a collective level but also sometimes at a more individual level. Secondly, I am surprised, Mr Bacquelaine, that you never make this remark when it comes to the incalculable number of places of power or decision-making bodies, such as the Gaulic Circle of which Mrs de Laveleye was speaking, certain student circles, the majority of Masonic lodges, many bodies with religious functions, the lunches at the top of Mr Macron's power, or the press conference following the Codeco in Belgium, and I pass, where we meet in non-mixed male and often exclusively white. In our societies there is an overrepresentation and a great co-optation of men in groups supposed to represent the majority of us, and you do not seem to oppose their freedom of assembly or association in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u18	Madam Secretary of State, confusion, confusion and a half. And besides, I think there's a very great naivety in your speech. You do not realize the difference between the public and the private, like Mrs de Laveleye, who cites private organizations that never advertise outside and who do not try to bring the general public together on the basis of specific criteria. We have to separate what comes out of the private sphere. That people invite people to their homes they choose does not pose any problems. But when a public organization, backed up and subsidized by the public, does the same on social networks, we find ourselves in a completely different framework. I would therefore like to highlight this confusion. We are in a movement that you seem to support, but that I do not endorse. People reintroduce the concept of race and exhort it in the form of racialism, a kind of backward racism. I think this is extremely dangerous because it is a worrying drift. It is the evidence of discrimination based on skin colour and sexual orientation. It is a return to separatism, communitarianism and identity that becomes the master word. So you're a identitarian. I find that to be quite a problem for a Secretary of State who deals with equality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u19	Mrs Schlitz, I do not think you are naive, and I think it should not be easy to hear this kind of speech in an assembly such as this one, which unfortunately women and young women are too often used to hearing. Thank you for your answer, to which I would like to add two elements. Mr Bacquelaine, I think this is a fundamentally interesting debate that deserves our full attention, that of Mrs Schlitz and of our whole Parliament for the years to come. First, I don't think I'm implying a return to separatism through my question. The universalism to which one could aspire in fact does not exist. We live in a society relatively marked by segregationism, especially in places of power, which are still largely reserved for white men. Thus, essentially attacking minority groups who try to organize themselves to influence these relations of domination – which still exist, even if one can dream of universalism – reflects a certain danger. What goals do we want to devote our energy to? Is it our goal to establish a truly egalitarian society or rather to denounce those who organize themselves? I think we can also hold a debate with civil society on communication related to non-mixed spaces. Communication problems may indeed arise, but let us not confuse miscommunication with the willingness of racialized or minority groups to organize themselves in order to influence society in favour of better living together and greater equality for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u20	Debates of the European Parliament 55011949C and No Mr Francken's 55011951C was postponed at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u21	Madam Secretary of State, during this corona crisis, evidence is piling up that horizontal gender segregation in the labour market creates increased health and financial risks for women. We often talk about the glass ceiling, but little about the horizontal gender segregation, where women work in certain sectors and men in other sectors. There are already structural problems in the female sectors. They usually work in undervalued jobs, they have lower wages, precarious statutes and part-time jobs. A study by the European Trade Union Institute points out that there is less focus on prevention of health risks at work in predominantly female sectors, even though these health risks are higher in the long term in the female sectors than in predominantly male sectors. Due to the corona crisis, we see an increase in health risk and financial risk in female sectors. On the one hand, some of these sectors appear to be suddenly essential, with a greater risk of contamination. On the other hand, these sectors are more affected by temporary unemployment. They must then fall back on a much lower income, only 70% of their income. Let me give you an example. At the airport cabin crew gets a very low basic wage. Their wages rise when they fly. As they fly almost or not, their wages fall below the minimum wage. Madam Secretary of State, what measures will you and the government take to tackle the horizontal gender segregation in the labour market, which is at the root of the excessive financial and health exposure? What initiatives will you take to ensure permanent revaluation and good protection within the now predominantly female-qualified sectors? Think about the care.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u22	Mrs Vindevoghel, in 2007, on a proposal from the government, the Federal Parliament adopted an innovative and ambitious law aimed at achieving greater equality between women and men. I am committed to promoting and coordinating the implementation of the 2007 gender mainstreaming law and all its provisions, thus integrating the gender dimension into all government policies, programmes and actions. The objective of this transversal integration is to ensure that all policies contribute to strengthening equality between women and men in society and to addressing structural and historical imbalances. In addition, there is the Treaty No. 190 of the International Labour Organisation on the elimination of violence and intimidation in the field of work, drawing attention to domestic violence affecting employment, productivity, health and safety. The Treaty provides that each Member State must adopt an inclusive, integrated and gender-conscious approach to the prevention and elimination of violence and harassment in the field of work. Belgium has announced that it will ratify the Treaty as soon as possible. Public policy needs a transversal vision of gender inequality, to combat inequalities on the one hand and to prevent the situation of women from deteriorating, during the corona crisis and beyond.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u23	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary of State. Of course, there's still a lot of work to be done. We have seen in the care that people have had to work very hard. Thanks to the struggle of the people, we have been able to raise wages a little, but we are not yet where we need to be. It would be a good thing, for example, if the wage standard were to drop, so that trade unions could negotiate better wages in companies whenever they want. I refer to the campaign for a minimum wage of 14 euros. It is mainly about sectors where a lot of women work. That way, these people could raise all their wages. There is also a need to improve the statutes. Perhaps we should take a look at this, too. I have already asked questions about this: bpost, a public company. So the government has something to say in that regard. The people there still have wages below 14 euros. So that would be a good thing. There is also a need for further work on prevention and protection at work. Furthermore, the essential professions must be recognised as heavy-duty professions. That would also be a good thing. I wanted to make those suggestions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u24	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, birth leave for fathers and co-mothers has been extended to 15 days since 1 January of this year. That is, in itself, a first step in the right direction. However, let us point out that the duration, the level of benefit and the absence of an automatic award or withdrawal obligation still leave much to be desired in view of the ultimate objective of breaking gender roles in child care and achieving a balanced division of labour between both parents. Apart from that, I found it striking that the new arrangements for maternity leave are still based on the classic core family. Fathers and co-mothers must be married or legally living together to be entitled to maternity leave. In this way, actual cohabitants and parents who are already separated at the time of birth are excluded. As a result, child care is again at risk of being overly placed on the shoulders of the mother, whether or not she is single again. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Are you going to ensure that the right to maternity leave is made independent of the marital status of the parents in order to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, inequalities in the distribution of tasks relating to the child's birth from the cradle. Birth leave is a measure that will allow co-parents to take their rightful place in the care and education of the child. In the first instance, the employed or selfemployed person whose lineage is legally established or who has been recognised by the child shall be entitled to maternity leave. If this is not the case, the following persons are entitled to maternity leave under a cascade system: the person who is married to the mother, the person who is legally living with the mother or the person who has been living with the mother permanently and effectively for three years. So there is always a certain connection with the child and the biological mother. However, this does not prevent a person who is legally or sustainably living together with the mother of the child from also being entitled to maternity leave. In addition, a person who is divorced from the mother, but has recognised the child, or if there is a suspicion of paternity or co-motherhood because the marriage has been dissolved or destroyed within 300 days of the child's birth, is also entitled to maternity leave. Of course, birth leave has to evolve along with the needs of society. I'll see to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u26	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u27	Madam Minister, in Brussels, among other things, the ACV trade union conducted a survey of SNCB workers. Its results required us to submit a parliamentary question on the subject. The survey was completed by 146 workers. Since the annual reports of the internal services for prevention and protection at work do not contain figures on gender-related violence and sexual harassment, there is obviously no certainty as to the representativeness of the results for the majority of railway workers. However, the results of the survey make it clear that these are not isolated cases. If you want, I can pass on the survey. To sum up, 67.8% of respondents were themselves victims of verbal or physical gender-related violence. For the majority of them, the problem was not recurrent. However, it had an impact on the well-being of workers at work. In addition, 41.78 % of respondents witnessed gender-related violence or inappropriate sexual behaviour towards a female colleague in the workplace. It is also striking that women report such facts more often when they are witnesses than when they are victims themselves. Finally, the participants in the survey felt it was high time that something was done about the problem. Madam Secretary, what actions will you take to collect full and representative data on gender-based violence and sexual harassment on the railways? What prevention and protection measures will you take for the victims? How will you simplify the reporting of such facts for victims and witnesses? Will you provide a prevention campaign on sexist behaviour in the workplace that could result in violence? How will you do that? Will you participate in the discussion of the themes in the plans for well-being at work, including in the railways?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, I have read about the investigation. In December, if I remember correctly, I contacted a small group of CSC-Transcom who told me about the results of this study, despite the fact that they had initially told me that they were confidential information. So I haven't really had a chance to discuss it with the Members of Parliament, but I'm glad that some people are taking the matter up. In any case, the results are indeed overwhelming. It can be seen that there is a problem of ordinary sexism, lack of knowledge of sexism or sexual assault or harassment. This lack of knowledge is of great concern. There is therefore a need for awareness-raising, but also for monitoring. Indeed, as you point out, there is currently no reference, at the level of SNCB, to all these acts in the welfare investigations. In addition, it is difficult for workers to report such problems. That is what I have said about the important points I have made at this meeting. I have taken note of all your questions, which are interesting avenues of work. But my objective is to act, in consultation with the Minister for Mobility, Mr Gilkinet, to remedy this situation urgently and to put in place an action plan. I have already informed the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men of the specific problem facing SNCB, and he has expressed his willingness to support us in developing this plan. My strategy is to see if this type of problem does not arise in other areas. But I am not yet in possession of all the answers on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u29	Indeed, we must not underestimate the extent and frequency of cross-border behaviour in the working environment. In Flanders there is currently the Bart De Pauw case. There was also the ACV survey at the service cheque companies. Those results were also very serious. For me, it is important that more tools are made available and that women have easier access to a robust prevention policy in companies. In many companies, the problem is still too often underestimated. That is why it may not be bad that you are working on a case-based policy, which is extended to other companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u30	Madam Secretary of State, during the debate on your policy statement, you indicated to Mrs Nadia Moscufo that you think it is a good idea to collect official statistics on feminicide in Belgium. In France, a report has recently been published annually entitled Etude national relative au morts violetes au sein de couples. Civil society is asking for such a study to be carried out annually in Belgium. Will you follow the example of France and order an annual report on feminicide in Belgium? Can you do that before 2020? If not, what is the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u31	Mrs Vindevoghel, as Secretary of State for Gender Equality, I pay a great deal of attention to the fight against women's murder. Women's murder or feminicide is the most extreme form of violence against women and also has a dramatic impact on their relatives. It is indeed essential to gain a better understanding of the extent and evolution of feminicide in our country. The collection of sound data, as well as the establishment of an analysis mechanism for investigating female murder, is rightly one of the recommendations of the review. As part of the next National Action Plan, I will ensure that this important focus is included. It is unacceptable that civil society should continue to carry out this work on the basis of press articles in 2021. The IGVM addresses each year to the federal police and the College of Attorneys General to centralise statistics on gender-related violence. It appears that at present we do not have reliable data on female murder, which makes a study as in France possible. Nevertheless, both police and judicial systems are currently under way in order to obtain statistics on victims of partner violence broken down by gender. So we are well on our way to better statistics on these facts. For further information, please also refer to my colleagues, the Ministers for Justice and the Interior. I hope that we can move forward as quickly as possible on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u32	Thank you. I hope so, too. Last year there were 24 feminicides. That's a huge number. Measuring is knowing and if one knows something, one can take action. It is very important to take steps forward in this area. It is a question of women's organisations to get a better idea of the causes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u33	Mr Francken, I had received the message that you had asked for your questions to be postponed, but in the meantime you are with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u34	I didn't think I was going to get there, Mr President, but I did. I am glad to be present once on the Committee on Equal Opportunities, because it is the first time. Madam Secretary of State, my best wishes for the new year, a great deal of courage and perseverance. Making policy is more difficult than opposing it. In the opposition it is always easy to criticise, but it is something else if one has to do it. I therefore wish you every success and I am convinced that it will not be the last time I am present on this committee. I have a question about the Collectif contre l'Islamophobie and Belgique (CCIB). I read in the report that Mr Van Langenhove already asked a question about this in plenum on Thursday, and I have some additional questions. In your reply to Mr Van Langenhove, you said that you had a meeting with the CCIB. How'd that maintenance go? You say that this has been positive, but have you discussed, as I suspect, that CCIB and CCIF are interrelated? You say they have nothing to do with each other, but it is strange that they use the same logo and have the same statutes? You can say it's not a dog, but if it has four legs, if it barks, if it has hair, a head and a tail, then it might be a dog after all. Did you discuss that? Have you asked about the links with the CCIF, which is banned in France by President Macron? From what do you conclude that there is no relationship between CCIF and CCIB and that CCIB is 100 % kosher, whereas CCIF is prohibited by the French Government for Islamism and links with the Muslim Brotherhood and Hamas? Moreover, both organisations use the same logo and have the same objectives. I think that's really weird. I am not talking about the fact that many of your party members are on the CCIB's board of directors and that the CCIB has not even submitted an annual accounts yet. However, this organisation exists and even grants it to you. In France the CCIF is banned, but the sister organisation with the same logo and the same objectives receives subsidies from us. I think that's really weird and I don't think I'm alone with that. Therefore, I would like to clarify your discussion with the CCIB. My second question concerns subsidies, published in the Belgian Official Journal on 31 December. I always keep an eye on the Belgian Official Journal, even on Christmas holidays, which is a hobby. By the way, there's always some really interesting stuff in there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u35	Mr Franken, excuse me, do you move on to your second question?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u36	Madam Secretary of State, I understand from the President that my questions on this subject are linked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u37	No, they're not paired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u38	Madam Secretary of State, both questions have indeed been merged. I have therefore given the floor to Mr Francken to put his two questions together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u39	This has not been communicated to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u40	Anyway, on 31 December, the Belgian Official Journal published a series of grants to NGOs of all kinds for projects to combat racism and Islamophobia. I took a good look at that list. As former Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, I have quite a knowledge of the NGO world in that sector. Previously I was head of the cabinet in the Department of Integration, which also gives me some knowledge of the NGO world in Flanders. Often, the same NGOs submit grant files and applications, with which I have no problems in themselves, there are grants for this. I know some of the listed NGOs, but I've never heard of some others; which doesn't mean they're incorrect NGOs. Madam Secretary of State, can you give an overview of the exact amounts and duration of subsidies per NGO? What exactly was the subsidy call? What was the objective, the motive of the grant? What exactly was the framework of the grants? When was the grant application launched? I understand from a newspaper article in De Standaard that the subsidy call was sent out by the previous government and that you simply signed it. Apparently, former Secretary Nathalie Muylle of CD&V is responsible for this. I have also read that one of the grants was awarded to an NGO that wants to conduct research into and also to be active in the fight against coronarism. Is there coronaracism? What's that? I've never heard of it. I thought anyone could be infected with corona, that corona doesn't distinguish by rank or rank, let alone by color or orientation. All madness on a stick, do you take it seriously that you grant subsidies to a non-profit association that claims to carry out research into coronarism and combat it if necessary? I think that's hilarious. I find it unlikely that money will be spent on this. Can you tell me what coronaracism is exactly? I'm interested in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u41	Madam Secretary of State, you now have two minutes per question, so four minutes together to answer both questions from Mr Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u42	With regard to the first question, I refer to the answer I gave in plenary last week. Several questions have just been added by Mr Franken but have not been previously communicated to my firm, so I will not answer them now. I shall therefore answer the second question put to me by Mr Franken in connection with the subsidies. Mr Francken, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this call for projects was not specific to combat racism and Islamophobia, but a broader call for equal opportunities. This means that not only projects to combat racism and Islamophobia have been selected, but also projects to combat discrimination in general, discrimination against Igbtqi+ people, online hate speech and projects to achieve a more inclusive society. We have awarded a grant of 20,000 euros per project to a total of nine Belgian non-profit organisations. In concrete terms, these projects last between six months and one and a half years. Applications for the project call to which you refer could be submitted between 21 March and 30 April 2020 and the call was published on the FPS Justice website, as my administration does not yet have its own website. The grant(...) and the application form can still be found online. I would like to report that my administration launched a similar project call in 2019, with nine equal opportunities projects receiving a grant. In addition, we intend to launch this call annually, thereby encouraging civil society to contribute to the development of federal equality policies. Since the outbreak of the sanitary crisis, the Belgian and European press has repeatedly reported discrimination or insults against Asian people. Also from other minority groups, such as the Jewish community or the Muslim community, there are concrete reports of hateful incidents where one considers himself a scapegoat or cause of COOVID-19. The Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre, Unia, currently has no reliable figures available on reports that can be associated with COVID-19. These will be addressed in Unia's annual report of 2020. However, Unia included in its COVID-19 report: a human rights test (2020) the first trends in reports related to COVID-19. Indeed, they show an increase of 32% in the number of reports of unfair or discriminatory treatment between February and August 2020 compared to the same period in 2019. The health crisis is therefore also an inequality crisis, including in the area of racism. I will oppose any form of racism at any time, during and after the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u43	If you are interested in the problem, Mr Francken, and the others, we agreed with Unia this morning that we will present his report on COVID-19 in our committee in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u44	Mr President, I will certainly follow up on this, along with Mr Safai, who has also joined us. You can be sure of that. Madam Secretary of State, I am actually asking you very simply how the consultation with CCIB has been. You say you don't want to answer that. My question is very specific: how do you actually conclude that there is a big difference between CCIB and CCIF? I cannot make that clear, not from the logo, not from the objective. I find it very strange that a decision is being taken in France to ban this organisation, and not here. It is not just a matter of banning an organisation, it is a very serious measure. So that organization shut itself down, shut itself down. President Macron wouldn't have been that far off, I suppose. At the same time, such an organisation in Belgium receives subsidies. I'm getting a little suspicious about that. I actually think that's a wrong signal. You can understand that this is at least an annoying file. France prohibits that organisation and the Belgian Government grants it a subsidy. That seems strange to me. You are clearly not answering this question. I will have to put a new question, because it seems that you cannot answer the question of how this consultation has been. Then you probably don't have to read any text. In relation to my question on subsidies, if I ask you: there is coronarism, you refer to a research report that Unia is preparing and will be discussed here in the Chamber. That means that Unia is conducting that investigation because there have been complaints. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u45	Why are you shaking no? I understand that Unia is preparing a report on the corona period, on the complaints about discrimination. Isn't that right? That is what I understood from your reply and from what the President said. Then I wonder why you would also like to grant a non-profit association to investigate coronarism, if it seems that Unia is already preparing a report? You're shaking again. Why are you shaking no, Madam Secretary of State? You're not answering, Madam Secretary of State. In your eyes, I'm probably an Untermensch, I know. The moral superiority is dripping off again. However, it is very simple things that I am asking you, and I think it is important that we also get answers from the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u46	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u47	You can say it in the micro, you know, that's how it could be in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u48	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u49	I don't know. That depends on the chairman, who then has to suspend the meeting. I would like to invoke the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u50	I cannot answer a question that has not been introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u51	Mr President, may I ask for the Rules of Procedure to be applied? The meeting can of course be suspended if you wish to have a meeting at the request of the Secretary of State, but if that is not the case, I insist that those words are recorded in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u52	The procedure is clear, I think: you have put two questions, you have asked them, Madam Secretary of State has answered them. You don't like the answer? That is your right, but if you then interrupt the Secretary of State and she does not want to go into it, that is her right as well. You can take note of that, and of course you can regret it. I suggest you complete your reply. Of course, you are free to submit further questions later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u53	Thank you, Mr President. That's a good deal. I'll rephrase my questions. I understand that I am not getting any answers to ordinary questions that I am asking about a meeting that the Secretary of State confirmed in plenary last Thursday. However, it does not seem exceptional to me to answer the question as to how this maintenance went. The government, of course, has the privilege of refusing to answer questions, although I find that a strange way of working. A little more flexibility in answering normal questions should be possible. All right, you're new to office. I'll put in a new question and we'll see what you have to say. I did read your communication on your Twitter account, though I don't know if you wrote it yourself?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u54	Mrs. Schlitz, I suggest that you...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u55	Nevertheless, you are allowed to ask your question.... And you're here to talk for two hours!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u56	No, no! Mrs Schlitz, I didn't check the chronometer for anyone, because I don't have one. I have a GSM, but I haven't checked everyone's speaking time. Other speakers have sometimes exceeded the time allowed. Mr Francken, I suggest that you conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u57	Mr President, I would just like to ask for the Rules of Procedure to be applied. Parliament has the final say. If the Secretary of State intervenes over and over again, I can replicate again. I am only asking for the application of the Rules of Procedure. I think you're doing that very correctly. I understand the annoyance, the frustration and the anger that it apparently raises when I ask two, in my view normal, questions. Very well, then I'll certainly ask a lot of questions. Keep up the good work. I think you'd better be a little above the mêlee as Secretary of State rather than let yourself be dragged along like that; that's just an advice. I've certainly read your communication correctly. That was not exactly what you are saying here, that CCIB and CCIF have nothing to do with each other. We'll dig that up to the bone and then we'll see who's finally pulling at the longest end.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u58	Madam Secretary of State, in your policy statement you indicated that you, together with your colleagues, want to evaluate and improve the institutional landscape of equality bodies and equal opportunities administrations. Will this evaluation of the institutional equality landscape have an impact on advisory councils, such as the Equal Opportunities Council for Men and Women and the Gender and Development Advisory Council? If so, what changes can we expect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u59	Several specialised equality bodies do not have an A status within the meaning of the Paris Principles. Some of them function as equality bodies under the supervision of a member of the government. The dual status of these bodies is called into question by the international monitoring bodies and may pose a problem in the context of the establishment of the Federal Institute of Human Rights, which will, in particular, act as a link for these bodies. It is the ambition that this institute should comply with the Paris Principles so that the Statute A can be recognised. In this context, the evaluation of the institutional landscape is part of the process. A recast of the administration is also recommended. Evaluations of the institutional landscape of sectoral human rights bodies and equal opportunities administrations will also take into account the composition of the governing boards of these sectoral human rights bodies, not civil society organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u60	Thanks for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u61	Madam Secretary of State, during the debate on your policy statement, you indicated that you want to make the anti-sexism law more widely known and effective. You indicated that you want to make the first-line staff better and that you want to work with those involved in the field and with the different levels of policy. It is not yet clear to us who you mean and what specific measures you want to take. How do you intend to better communicate the anti-sexism law to the population?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u62	Ms Vindevoghel, the anti-sexism law was adopted by the federal government in 2014 with the aim of strengthening the fight against discrimination and sexism in public space. This law allows any gesture or behaviour that a person seriously and publicly despises because of his or her sex to lead to a trial, a prison sentence or a fine. This law also came at the request of feminist associations. It is a necessary instrument, but it does not stop there. The law is solely repressive and only refers to gestures or behavior, without taking into account the system of sexism as a whole. It also has a limited scope, excluding, for example, sexist advertising. However, it would have been appropriate to condemn sexism in all areas, as in the case of the so-called Moureaux Act, which has been banning racist acts since 1981. The point is that the law is applied too little in practice. I see three points of improvement. Firstly, the implementation of this law is often too complicated because the burden of proof lies with the victim. Secondly, it is up to the court to assess the seriousness of the facts. Thirdly, there is no provision for the possibility of making this law public. There is work in the field of sensitisation and training. That's also the signal I'm getting from the grounds. That is why I would like to start an evaluation process with women's organisations and other actors in the field with the aim of improving the law and ensuring that the law better meets the needs of the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u63	Madam Secretary of State, I had also asked when you were planning to do that. I don't know if you have a visual on that yet. I believe it is important that the law is much more known. Now the big problem is that people don't even know where to go. There is now an evaluation in this area. Looking at this with women's organisations is a good thing to take steps forward on the anti-sexism law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u64	Questions Nos. 55012298C, 55012299C and 55012300C by Mr. Patrick Prévot are deferred at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u65	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I was just talking about this legislation and this is actually an example of it. This example shows how serious the problems remain. I don't know if you heard or read it last weekend in the paper and on social media. It has gained a lot of fame especially on the Dutch-speaking side. A well-known psychologist and sexologist received a disciplinary sanction from the Psychologists' Committee because she would have been too sexy in her spare time and this would be deontologically contrary to the dignity of her profession. She decided to take the flight ahead and hang her psychologist's title on the willows because she doesn't want that title if that means she can't be herself. She felt she couldn't be herself because of it. I find it very regrettable and serious that we are still faced with such matters in 2021, where conservative and patriarchal notions of dignity can prevent someone from exercising their profession in complete serenity. There is no doubt that the person in question continued to pursue her profession in a dignified and respectful manner. The complaint does not come from a customer, but from a fellow psychologist who does not yet want to make the effort to meet her. She had two short conversations, but she wasn't listened to very much. The complaint is also not at all about the professional functioning of the accused psychologist but about her appearance and activities in her spare time and private life, two things that cannot possibly harm her clients. In that sense, it is very bizarre that the Psychologists' Committee has declared the complaint admissible at all and has imposed disciplinary sanctions on the person in question, up to an appeal. The reason for the complaint and the ruling of the Psychologists' Committee is absolutely no longer present. Supposing a woman undermines the dignity of her profession because she would be too sexy in her spare time, does not fit in a society in which women and men should be treated equally. I am therefore very pleased to hear that the person in question has not gone far enough with Unia to challenge the case in cassation. This can become an important symbol file for all women who are faced with professional discrimination because of their body and what they do with it, even though they only do so in their spare time and practice their profession extremely professionally. Of course, there are also men who have to deal with this kind of discrimination, but we all know that women are more often victims in almost all occupational groups. It seems to me to be a political responsibility for you to tackle this problem. My question is, therefore, what will you do to eliminate such professional discrimination against women in order to prevent them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u66	Madam Secretary of State, I will not repeat the whole story of Mr Vindevoghel. You are aware of it and you have already communicated it through your social media. The social media were right to take action last weekend. Although it is denied today by members of the Psychologists Committee, it seems that it is your Flemish colleague, Minister Somers, who took this word in the mouth as if there is a clothing police operating who judges what is within the lines and what is not. In that context, it surprises me that almost no indignation was heard about the condemnation of the Mothers vzw a few days ago for Mothers, who ask mothers she helps to remove the headscarf when they enter, or to wait in the entrance hall if they do not want to. In my humble opinion, the clothing police are also taking action there. Madam Secretary of State, you are absolutely driven and you always want to undo injustice. That is why I would like to discuss the two cases with you, because there are striking similarities in the two statements, because in both cases a judgment is made on the basis of clothing. Kaat Bollen is judged to be too sexy, while a mommy with headscarf should not ask for help and therefore should not be herself. That is why I would like you to respond, Madam Secretary of State. What can you do within your powers to remedy or prevent such situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u67	Mrs Creemers and Mrs Vindevoghel, thank you for your questions. Like you, I have followed the news of Mrs Bollen with great indignation. The IGVM, which falls within my competence, immediately entered into talks with Mrs Bollen. Her file, including the verdict of the Psychologists' Committee, is currently under review. Therefore, pending further legal advice, I will not comment on the individual dossier. If there is discrimination, I assure you that I will do everything I can to ensure that further steps are taken. If so, I will call on my competent colleague, Minister Clarinval, to carry out a thorough evaluation of the Psychologists' Committee. It is inconceivable for me as a woman and as Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities and Gender Equality that a woman is still being judged and stigmatized today in Belgium for what she is or is not wearing. As far as I am concerned, this applies both to women who are supposedly wearing too little or too much clothing. I refer to the headscarf debate. For me, every woman is free in her choice of clothing, without losing her dignity and certainly not her rights as a woman.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u68	Madam Secretary of State, I think it would be good if there were a national action plan on this subject. We are now discussing one example of professional discrimination, and I am glad that you include the aspect of the headscarf, which is indeed about the same thing, about clothing. A global plan seems to me to be necessary, just because it is not about the one specific issue. We must also consider whether there are any legislative gaps in this respect. Perhaps there should be adjustments so that such things do not happen again?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u69	Madam Secretary of State, it is to your credit that you say that you are not going to make a big statement on the substance of the matter at this time, but that you would like to see what is going on. After all, if we see counter-examples of too quickly pronounced judgments, then we are not okay with them either. I therefore think it is a wise and sensible attitude if you say that you want to see what is going on first. I can also hear your determination. If any form of discrimination comes to light, you say you will be the first to stand as one woman behind Kaat Bollen and the possibly injured moms in the headscarf shop in Borgerhout. That disadvantaged people can count on you in cases of discrimination, I think that is a very nice attitude. Mrs Vindevoghel, you are calling for everything to be put right into one major action plan. I think we need to be aware of what is happening and remain absolutely vigilant, but I am convinced that Madam Secretary of State will ensure that no one is discriminated against. If necessary, all steps will be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic332x.u70	Questions Nos 55012348C by Mrs Fonck and 55012475C by Mrs Jiroflée are postponed.
