ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u1	Minister, this question was initially addressed to Minister Lalieux, but it finally landed at your house. In Belgium, 15 October 2017 will remain a black day in the world of workers and trainees with disabilities. A royal decree put an end to the social security coverage of vocational rehabilitation contracts and vocational training contracts. Since 2017, persons with disabilities and who are under an occupational adjustment contract (CAP) have been receiving a salary, taxed without entitlement to unemployment benefits, sickness benefits, family allowances for employees or pension. While it is very difficult for this group to integrate into the world of work, past years no longer account for pensions. Persons with disabilities will therefore have to extend their professional careers in order to meet the new pension requirements. For example, people who are learning through IFAPM are totally subject to social security because the legislation treats apprentices as ordinary workers. Isn't that unequal? This violates article 27 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (UNCRPD), a convention that Belgium ratified more than 11 years ago, a convention mentioned as a guideline in our government agreements and in the policy note. Article 27 of the CNUDPH states, inter alia, that "disabled persons must be able to exercise their professional and trade union rights on the basis of equality with others". In addition, the National Labour Council issued a negative opinion on 30 September 2019 and voted in favour of a revision of this royal decree. Minister, are you in favour of a revision of this royal decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u2	Ms. Leroy, as already explained to Mr. Rigot a few weeks ago, the repeal of the extension of the ONSS rules for persons with disabilities who have a contract for vocational training or rehabilitation has been going on for a very long time. For many years, there have been problems of perception for these categories of people. Finally, in order to create the necessary legal certainty, the Royal Decree of 15 October 2017 repealed Article 3, 6° and 7° of the Order ONSS. As a result, these people were no longer subject to social security. Their employers no longer had to pay social contributions from the training allowances paid, but in return, the persons concerned no longer constituted social rights. However, insurance against accidents at work has been provided to cover possible accidents at the workplace. The issue to which you refer was reported in 2018 by the National Higher Council of Persons with Disabilities (CSNPH) which asked to reconsider the 2017 decision. The National Labour Council, which had previously issued a favourable opinion on the Royal Decree of 15 October 2017, joined the CSNPH's request in 2019. The previous Social Affairs Strategic Unit drafted a draft royal decree which partially complied with this request, but the project was subsequently blocked during the current business period. More than three years have elapsed since the abolition of Article 3, 6° and 7° of the ONSS Order. The current contracts covered by the rectification order have been terminated in the meantime. As I have already said, these are contracts with a maximum duration of one year, which can generally be renewed up to two times. When I took up my duties, the administration forwarded the project to my collaborators who studied the problem, in consultation with ONSS. The ONSS noted the following. The Agency cannot identify the target groups. The persons in question are part of the group known as interns (small statutes). Already before the abolition, these people were often not declared. ONSS is not aware of any concrete complaints from the field. If we plan a correction measure only for the disability category, it would, according to ONSS, be unjustifiable discrimination against persons who are valid in the same situation. Indeed, there are very vulnerable comparable groups which are difficult to integrate into the labour market and which in both cases benefit from precarious social protection. In addition, contracts which could have benefited from a rectification measure have already de facto come to an end. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the vocational adjustment contract is primarily a training which aims to enable people to develop their skills, which facilitates access to employment. It is a practical training under the responsibility of the company which ideally leads to a job afterwards. The persons concerned also receive a small allowance, which is not considered a salary. We therefore find ourselves in the context of a training contract and not in the context of an employment contract. Consequently, persons who acquire practical experience under a training contract are not subject to social security and do not constitute themselves social rights as such. On the other hand, persons who provide professional benefits in the course of their internship are expected to work under an employment contract and these activities are still subject to social security. Whether or not social rights are created is independent of whether or not there is a disability in people. The creation of social rights is assessed on the basis of the existence of a training contract or an employment contract. Here's an answer to your question, Mrs. Leroy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u3	Thank you, Minister. Clearly, then, it will be necessary to verify and refer the information to the persons concerned who have expressed genuine concern about their social protection. I note that the ONSS is not aware of any complaints. I will check with the associations that have sounded the alarm how they have communicated with the public administrations that are supposed to protect them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u4	Madam President, Minister, in order to help people in situations of dependency cope with daily difficulties, people devote part of their lives, both private and professional, to helping their loved ones. Today, almost 10% of Belgians are caregivers close to vulnerable people. This free and regular mobilization brings a great deal to our society and to the people supported. Nevertheless, it can be a mental burden, has consequences for the health, social, family relations and work of the caregiver. The laws of 12 May 2014 and 17 May 2019, as well as the royal decrees of 2020, are important advances in the recognition of the carer and the granting of social rights. They are moving in the right direction, but may be insufficient to meet the basic needs of close caregivers and helpers. Indeed, support should be extended to close caregivers, in particular through better information, the assistance of professionals and a comprehensive and cross-cutting status to provide them with comprehensive social protection, taking into account their specific situation and needs. Minister, today, how many people have applied for and obtained recognition for their close caregiving status? Do you intend to continue to improve the existing legal framework for close caregivers in order to provide them with comprehensive social protection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u5	Madam Member, thank you for your question. As of January 2021, 6,651 persons were recognized as close caregivers, 62 per cent of whom were women and 38 per cent were men. The law of 12 May 2014 on the recognition of the close caregiver and on the origin of such recognition provided that the law and the status of the close caregiver will be evaluated. The law of 17 May 2019 amending the law of 12 May 2014 is entirely part of it. It is expected that the evaluation will be presented to the House by December 31, 2021. I can inform you that my administration is in the process of collecting and analysing the quantitative and qualitative information that will prepare the assessment report as provided for in the said Act. On the basis of this analysis, we will also be able to identify what concrete actions should be considered to better meet the needs and demands of all those involved. I therefore think it is important to wait for the results of this evaluation before expressing my views on possible changes to existing regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u6	Minister, I am pleased with your answer. I shall await the results of this evaluation which will be presented in this committee and I will not fail to ask you again about this matter at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u7	Madam Chair, Minister, last Monday, you voted in committee on the bill to expand the system of community work to include the arts and socio-cultural sector. Comrade Gaby Colebunders had the opportunity to express to you the views of the PTB on this matter. We really think that the use of voluntary work, given its status, is a bad decision. We were the only ones who opposed it. However, between the time we introduced the issue and today, we believe that the situation has changed further. You told us you still had to have a meeting yesterday with the National Labour Council. Can you tell us what's going on? When are we going to have this final, long-awaited framework to find a solution to the concrete situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u8	Mrs Moscufo, I hope you will not be mad at me, but I will not repeat everything I said last Monday in this debate. In fact, I have mentioned consultation at the level of the social partners, but I have no news at the moment as to the results I hope for under the Royal Decree ONSS. Also, I can't add anything to what I said to Gaby Colebunders on Monday afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answer. So you confirm that as a result of yesterday's meeting, there has been no progress and that you have nothing to say about it? Is that it? Just to understand!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u10	I was not transformed into a mosquito at this meeting and I did not receive a report. So, I can't tell you anything else!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u11	We reaffirm, in any case, that we disagree with this draft and that we will not vote in favour of it in plenary meeting. I repeat again: following calls from others and from me, a whole series of actors on the ground have spoken out against this project and would like to see if, eventually, this afternoon, Vivaldi did not change its mind and still vote for the project, this system will end permanently on 31 December. If you go in that direction, it will already be an important victory for the trade union organisations that are completely rejecting the project that you are submitting this afternoon to our votes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u12	Madam President, Minister, in July 2020, a cluster was identified at the Charleroi police station: six police officers contracted the covid-19. The Federal Occupational Risk Agency (Fedris) has decided not to recognize the disease as an occupational disease. Imagine the feeling of injustice felt by these policemen! They worked so hard during the health crisis and that's how we thank them! Royal Decree No. 39 of 28 June 2020 introduced covid-19 into the list of occupational diseases for workers who have engaged in professional activities in enterprises in crucial sectors and essential services provided that the occurrence of the disease is recorded during the period 20 March 2020 to 31 May 2020 inclusive. Recognition of covid-19 on the basis of the list of occupational diseases is therefore no longer possible after 31 May 2020. Some police officers have obtained recognition of the occupational disease through the open system, but they are only police officers in the field. I do not understand the distinction made by Fedris between field police officers and those working in the offices. Indeed, even if officers do not go to the field, they still have daily contact with their colleagues in the field. They are therefore also exposed to the risk of contamination. It seems to me that when a cluster is identified at the workplace, it should be deduced that it is sufficiently demonstrated that the disease finds its decisive and direct cause in the exercise of professional activity. The burden of proof should therefore no longer rest on the worker. Minister, will you correct this injustice by reintroducing covid-19 into the list of occupational diseases for critical sectors and essential services, with retroactive effect and without limit in time, when a cluster has been identified in the workplace?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u13	Madam President, Minister, during the first wave of the corona crisis, Fedris recognised COOVID-19 as an occupational disease for the operational staff of the fire department. Afterwards, this recognition was continued for ambulances, but not for firefighters and women. This leads to distressing situations for aid workers affected by the disease. In December 2020, the Minister of the Interior already asked to extend the recognition of COVID-19 as an occupational disease for both the police and the fire department. The trade unions also repeatedly asked for the system applicable during the first lockdown to be simply extended. However, Fedris did not answer the question of extending that recognition for the police and rescue services. According to Fedris, there is no scientific evidence that there is a higher incidence of infections between the police and fire brigades and other occupational groups. However, during that first lockdown there was no problem with that scientific evidence. The circumstances have not changed and yet this recognition has not been renewed following repeated calls by, among other things, the Minister of the Interior and the trade unions. Assistance services come in close contact with other people during the exercise of their job. It is not always possible to maintain sufficient distance during interventions. Think of the release of a pinched person from a vehicle or a resuscitation. Emergency workers could not benefit from a priority vaccination because the recognition of COVID-19 as an occupational disease was not renewed. The aid workers affected are, as it were, double punished. Do you see it as an opportunity to extend the recognition of COVID-19 as an occupational disease for firefighters and police with retroactive effect? Will you refer the extension of this recognition as an occupational disease of firefighters and police again to Fedris?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u14	Madam Chair, I will answer all three questions in an integrated manner. First, the recognition of covid-19 as an occupational disease raises a fundamental question, namely the link between the exercise of professional activity and the development of the disease. An occupational disease is a disease in which there is a causal link with the occupation. That questioning is a fundamental principle in our social security. The social partners, including the trade unions at Fedris, consider it essential that an occupational disease is a disease in which it is recognised that there is a causal link with the occupational activity that is being pursued. Mrs Verlinden, who is a fine lawyer, no doubt understands that. In the name of the police unions, of course, it insists on a regulation, but every lawyer knows that an occupational disease is a disease in which there is a causal link with the professional activity. The list is open and closed, as all lawyers know. A closed list works as follows: if one knows that a particular profession is causal with a risk of a particular disease higher than the risk in the general population, then that disease is on the closed list. This does not require proof that this disease has affected one's professional activity. Open lists involve more evidence. That's what it's about, Mr. Demon, and every lawyer knows that. We must maintain that distinction, otherwise we are calling into question a very fundamental principle on which employers' liability for occupational diseases and the organisation of social security is based. Neither the social partners nor I want that. That's the bottom line of the matter. Then we must avoid an amalgamation in history, and allow me to repeat that. Without wishing to dwell on the history of this problem, I would point out that from the beginning of the pandemic, the recognition of covid-19 as an occupational disease was possible via code 1.404.03 of the list of occupational diseases for employees in the health care sector who were at a significantly increased risk of being infected with the virus. For example, firefighters who might have been responsible for transporting infected patients could be recognized under this code. Subsequently, employees in the crucial sectors and essential services as determined in the annex to the Ministerial Decree of 3 April 2020 could be recognised if they worked during the period from 18 March to 17 May 2020 included under the Temporary Code of Occupational Illness 1.404.04. These people had to work during a full lockdown, while the other workers could not work. Those who were forced to work were in conditions where one could have a presumption that the infection was related to their work. The conditions were that it was impossible to keep a distance of 1.5 metres and that there was no more than 14 days between the illness and the date of the last benefit in the workplace. Of course, police and firefighters are among the crucial sectors and essential services set out in this Ministerial Order. But it was not only a measure for police officers or firefighters, it was a general measure in the context of a complete lockdown during which there could be a causal link. It was not possible to extend this code, which made sense during the particular period of the total lockdown. As I have explained on many occasions, this measure was valid for every person who had to work during this period of total lockdown. It was also accepted that the recognition of COOVID-19 as an accident at work could be considered in certain limited concrete situations, provided that the following four conditions are met simultaneously. It must be a sudden event that caused an injury and occurred during and through the execution of the contract of employment. Once again, the fire department and the police can find themselves in such a situation and be infected. The recognition of COVID-19 as an occupational disease in operational fire and police personnel has not continued and could not continue beyond the first wave. At its meeting of 16 June 2021, Fedris' Organic Agents Medical Committee already considered the question of whether there is an increased risk of infection in certain occupational categories with a high degree of contact with the population, which would justify the introduction of a specific code in the list of occupational diseases in the logic of the occupational diseases. Since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, a lot of scientific research has been carried out both at home and abroad on the relationship between certain occupational activities and the frequency with which the disease occurs. Precisely the pandemic nature of the disease complicates that kind of research. The risk of contagion is not limited to the place where one works. It's everywhere where people get in touch with each other. Consequently, there are many external factors which can lead to higher levels of infection: the partial lockdown already mentioned, the extent to which people work at home, the application of preventive measures, the use of personal protective equipment, the socio-economic group to which they belong, the age and the vaccination rate. Since October 2020, Belgium has had figures showing the number of new cases per category of economic activity per 14-day period, as indicated by the NACE code. The only employees who consistently record an increased COVID-19 incidence are those employed in health care and residential care for the elderly. The recent spectacular decline in the number of infections in these professions is mainly due to the vaccination of these workers. Based on the available scientific findings, it cannot be concluded that other occupational categories are currently at increased risk of infection. Of course, we remain alert to any significant clusters of infections within professional groups, including fire and police services, and of course also alert to new scientific insights about this. When deciding to introduce a temporary code 1.404.05, a code for outbreaks, the Council of Ministers asked to examine in parallel, on the basis of all scientific and medical knowledge, whether it is appropriate to introduce additional specific codes whereby covid contamination in certain professions with increased or specific contact with the public can also be recognised as an occupational disease. I gave that order to Fedris and the FPS Social Services. On 7 July 2021, Fedris's occupational diseases management committee specifically commented on the appropriateness of recognising COOVID-19 as an occupational disease among firefighters and police. In line with the scientific findings of the Committee on Biological Agents, the Management Committee concluded that there is currently insufficient evidence to believe that fire or police personnel are at increased risk of infection due to their professional activity. This week, the opinion is being examined by an inter-kabinets working group, which will then submit its proposal to the Council of Ministers. I propose that, on the basis of scientific evidence, consistent legal logic and respect for the essence of the concept of occupational disease, we decide on this. On the other hand, and I answer your question here, Mr D'Amico, a draft royal decree was adopted at first reading at the Council of Ministers on 4 June 2021. This makes it possible to recognize outbreaks - of uitbraakhaarden. The aim of this project is to insert a new code in the list of occupational diseases, code 1.404.05, with exposure conditions set out in the annex to the Royal Decree of 28 March 1969. The wording of the code would be as follows: "Any disease caused by SARS-CoV-2 in workers who, during their professional activities, have been involved in an outbreak of infections in a company." This draft royal decree will have retroactive effect to May 18, 2020, which corresponds to the end of the first lockdown. This project has been reviewed by the Joint Committee for all public services. A first formal meeting of the Committee took place on 24 June and further explanations were provided by my staff on 2 July. Indeed, as you know, I attach great importance to social consultation, and I really want the draft regulations to be explained, validated and supported, as far as possible, by all. As soon as the Council of Ministers has become aware of the protocol issued by Committee A, the draft royal decree may be submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. This will provide an important solution to a specific issue, namely outbreaks in certain corpses, to the extent that this corresponds to the logic of an occupational disease. Furthermore, we must base ourselves on what the scientific evidence says and stick with a clear understanding of what is an occupational disease and what is not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will be very vigilant about the follow-up and implementation of what you have told us. I'll be happy when the professional illness of these police officers is recognized.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u16	You certainly have a clear vision, Minister. I am also pleased that the outbreak sites will be arranged. However, we differ. We disagree on the fact that a firefighter or a policeman may need to be defined even more clearly in an emergency situation, not always following all the protocols when saving a person, for example in a fire. I understand that you say that Fedris is giving a negative opinion and that this has been legally substantiated. However, it is an advice to the government. I therefore hope that the IKW you spoke of will listen again to the unions of the people on the field and also to the agents and firefighters themselves. They tell us and show us that the situation is acute at times, although there are no outbreaks. So I ask you to discuss the issue in the IKW.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u17	Mr Minister, you have raised the problem: in order for an occupational disease to be recognised, the link between the disease and the profession must be established. That is what has been a debate since the beginning of this discussion. Indeed, we do not agree, because you say that the recognition will coincide with the moment of the first complete lockdown. But there was a second one, even if it was less strong.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u18	The difference is that during the first lockdown, it was forbidden to work except for essential and crucial sectors. At the second lockdown, the difference was that we continued to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u19	Yes, but the main point of my speech is that we always come with the burden of proof when we were in a situation in which, whether full lockdown or not, the private sphere was governed very strictly at the level of social contacts. We really do not agree on the strict way in which the problem of the link between profession and disease is posed, and even more so for these two categories of profession. It is understood that a new code will be erected. We will follow this one closely and so much better if it is to improve things. We are also pleased that our CD&V colleagues have a more balanced view of the original position: the requirement to provide evidence. They are coming back to this point and this is proof that it is on the basis of practice that we can move forward here in Parliament. We will keep an eye on this development. Among my questions, I asked you to provide us with figures, which I did not receive. How many cases of co-vid among firefighters and police officers were recognized as occupational disease during the first confinement and how many were identified through the open list?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u20	I didn't see that question. Could you introduce a written question on this subject? This may be more useful for a data-related issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u21	Since Mr Ducrame was absent, his question No 19503C was not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u22	Madam President, my colleague Aouasti is speaking in plenary. Could he turn his question into a written question?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u23	That's not possible. The only thing we can do is to postpone this question until the end of the meeting, provided that Mr Goffin agrees, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u24	I do not think that Mr Aouasti will be able to join us in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u25	Mr Minister, I propose that you give the full answer, by addressing the more focused questions of Mr Aouasti. Mr Goffin was present and Mr Aouasti was retained in plenary session. It is quite exceptional that there is a plenary meeting at the same time as an oral question-and-answer session. I think we're all extremely flexible on the schedules right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u26	Is it possible to give him the answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u27	I guess not. I'm having a problem. Mr Aouasti could have been present if he had not been selected by the plenary meeting that was convened to consider the Pandemic Law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u28	That is also what parliamentary work is all about! We can't split up. There's still a rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u29	I can also very well interrupt the meeting until Mr Aouasti has finished and then resumes it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u30	If Mr Goffin is present to ask his questions, I will answer his questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u31	This is amazing, especially when I see the pace at which the parliamentary work this afternoon is going to be submitted!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u32	All right, by insisting, I'll answer everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u33	Mr Minister, I am sorry, but my colleague has not chosen the first point to be the Pandemic Law, for which he is in the Justice Committee as an effective member. We've had commissions with an agenda. We understand very well the position of the government. I think that in the committees, we are still quite flexible as parliamentarians. He is speaking in plenary today, but it is very rare for this to happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u34	I will respond kindly, but it will be exceptional to respond to people who are not present, even for good reasons. It won't be a precedent!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u35	Mr Aouasti's question will obviously be irrelevant, but there is always the possibility for the minister to answer in whole or in part the questions he has prepared. It is up to you to choose which questions you will answer when the questions are attached. Some members of the government do so in a way, others do something different. This is not a precedent, since it is the free will of the members of the government. The questions are attached. We can dissociate them. Mr Aouasti could thus defer his question or introduce it as a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u36	Madam President, if it is possible, let us proceed in this way!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u37	Both questions were disjointed and Mr Aouasti's question was transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u38	Madam President, Minister, a public service contract, recently launched by the ONSS and the SPF Finances, aims to manage the procedures for the collection of administrative enforceable titles and the judicial decisions from which they benefit, through a digitized platform of data exchange between these two bodies, the successful tenderer and the judicial officers. This procedure of recovery by a private actor is in line with the concession relating to ONSS recoveries granted in 2016 to a private company. At the time, actors in the field had denounced a loss of independence, impartiality and privatization of a whole part of the collection of State debts. Minister, with the aim of extending the computerised management of the collection of debts of the State to those of the SPF Finances by a private company, can you tell me whether an evaluation of the concession granted in 2016 has been carried out in view, not of the efficiency of the recovery of the debts of the State, which is obviously important, but of the role that the judicial officer must play in a pragmatic recovery, which can be complicated in procedures that are too rigid and without contact between the judicial officer and the ONSS? It comes to my mind that the judicial officers do not have the possibility to sign several contracts issued within a few days in a single act, which would reduce the costs, and that the exchange of essential information, as the realization of a plan of clearance, between the ONSS and the bailiffs are sometimes failing, given the replacement of human contacts by the computer interface. Has an assessment been made of the key to the distribution of files between the various bailiffs in the 2016 concession? Since the public procurement extends the concession to the recovery of a much larger portion of public debt, transparency is necessary. As a minister, how can you ensure that this will be the case for the new concession? Since fee-sharing is prohibited under the Royal Order respecting rates for this profession, do you think the mechanism of charging departmental officers to a private corporation to manage public finances is in conformity with the legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u39	Madam President, Mr Goffin, the enforcement of the constraints of the ONSS has been ensured since 2016 by means of a public service concession implementing an electronic exchange platform between all the judicial officers of the participating kingdom and the ONSS. The platform allows computerised management and monitoring of all the operations allowing to account for the recovery carried out by the judicial officers. In order to ensure equal treatment of debtors, judicial officers work on the basis of a collection guide detailing the steps to be taken. As one case is not the other, the exchanges between the judicial officers and the ONSS for the proper execution of the missions remain constant. The contact between the bailiff and the ONSS therefore exists and takes place through the platform in order to ensure the follow-up of the files. Since the launch of the platform in 2016, a follow-up of the distribution of cases between the various judicial officers is ensured. The platform allows a fair distribution of the missions to the various judicial officers participating. This distribution is made in such a way that a task is entrusted to a bailiff who already works on the debtor's file in order to optimize the recovery, avoiding unnecessary costs and that several bailiffs do not go to the same debtor. It also takes into account the distance between the registered office of the debtor and the judicial officer in order to reduce the costs of bailiff and to allow a bailiff close to the debtor, and therefore likely to know better the area, to intervene. The new public contract provides for the same rules of transparency as those which were included in the concession with regard in particular to the fair distribution of the tasks between the various judicial officers. The special specifications specify that the price to be paid by the bailiffs for their participation in the digital platform must correspond to the service provided by it to the judicial officers. This price will therefore be able to cover only the computerization and communication services of the missions to be served and to be performed with respect to a debtor by the judicial officers. It is here for the judicial officer to pay for a real service that he receives, which is in accordance with the royal decree of 30 November 1976 fixing the tariff of the acts performed by the judicial officers in civil and commercial matters as well as that of certain allowances. The specifications state explicitly that the price must be established taking into account the Royal Decree of 30 November 1976. Let me turn to Mr Aouasti's questions. For the sake of efficiency and economy, FPS Finance and ONSS have joined forces to deploy a single platform to meet their respective requirements. Since the binding titles of the SPF Finances and the ONSS have largely become digital, these two institutions have launched a public contract aimed at the provision, at their request, of services consisting of the management of procedures and recovery of enforceable titles through a digitised platform and the exchange of data between the successful tenderer and the contracting authorities, on the one hand, and between the successful tenderer and the judicial officers, on the other hand. The successful tenderer will have to ensure the participation of all judicial officers operating on Belgian territory. This is a price list public procurement. Article 2, 4 of the Royal Decree of 18 April 2017 on the award of public contracts in traditional sectors says so. It is a public procurement with price vouchers as part of an open procedure with European advertising. It is true that the successful tenderer will have to carry out, on behalf of the contracting authorities and in accordance with the instructions they will give, the regular evaluation of the services of the judicial officers involved in the tasks entrusted by the said contracting authorities. The successful tenderer shall keep the contracting parties regularly informed of the results of its checks and evaluations. The purpose of these agreements is to ensure equitable recovery of debtors, which is effective, timely and proportionate to the level of the assets committed, the enforceable securities of the FPS Finances and the ONSS, which, in any event, retain the power of the last word. The special specification provides that contracting authorities shall pay the successful tenderer for the provision of services for the management of procedures for the recovery of their enforceable titles through a digital platform. It also provides that the price to be paid to the adjudicator by the judicial officers for their participation in this platform will have to correspond to the service to be provided to them by the said digital platform. It will be here, for the judicial officer, to pay for a real service, from which he will benefit. In any event, the tenderer will have to explain in his tender how he has established this price. As I have already pointed out, this is a public procurement with price lists under an open procedure with European advertising. This last point should be stressed. This is an open procedure with European publicity. The risk of a form of monopoly in favour of a single firm therefore does not exist. Given the very important financial issue related to the collection of FPS Finance and ONSS claims using digital tools, the existence of selection criteria for bidders' technical capabilities is crucial. All economic operators meeting objective criteria in relation to the importance of the market are obviously invited to participate and propose their solution. This public procurement for the provision of services for the management of the procedures for the collection of enforceable securities of the FPS Finance and ONSS through a digital platform focuses on modern, efficient, dynamic and efficient management of public debt. It will also ensure that all debtors are treated fairly with respect to the FPS Finance and/or the NSS. In any case, such a market does not in any way distort the function of the judicial officer. A similar digital platform exists for the management and recovery of the enforceable titles of the Vlaamse Belastingsdienst (Vlabel) without it creating any controversy, which shows if necessary that the judicial officers can work harmoniously through a digital platform. The profession of judicial officer remains for me fundamental and is under no circumstances affected by the establishment of a digital platform for the benefit of the federal administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u40	Mr Minister, as you have read the answers to Mr Aouasti's questions, Mr Aouasti's question No 55019700C will be irrelevant. The Committee will be able to consult the replies in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u42	Minister, the government - in the person of the Minister of Justice - is currently preparing a revision of the Penal Code, particularly in the register of so-called "sexual" matters. In this context, a revision of the articles relating to prostitution seems to be planned. I say "seems," because this project is currently on the government side. Total decriminalization seems to be envisaged. Article 380 of the Criminal Code penalizing procuring therefore seems doomed to a total overhaul. In addition, article 380 ter, prohibiting any advertising related to the provision of sexual services, should also be repealed in the draft under discussion. Our government agreement states that "in the area of prostitution, the fight against sexual exploitation will remain the priority" and that "a reflection will be carried out, in consultation with the actors on the ground, in order to improve the living and working conditions of sex workers". In addition, in the Federal Gender Mainstreaming Plan, you highlight "assessments of working conditions and/or occupational status", particularly for "sex workers". It seems to us necessary that, where appropriate, progress be made on the status of persons in prostitution within a time frame similar to the revision of the Criminal Code. Minister, how are you assessing the working conditions and status of persons in prostitution? Have any concrete proposals been discussed with the specialized sector and debated within the government? If this is not the case, how soon will this be undertaken? Finally, what structural collaboration is envisaged in this case with the Institute for Equality between Women and Men?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u43	Madame de Laveleye, a draft revision of sexual criminal law is being discussed within the government. In the meantime, the issue of the social protection of sex workers is being addressed. As far as social security is concerned, in principle there is no need for a change in the rules. Decriminalisation will enable the sex worker to have full access to the social security of employees or self-employed persons according to his own wishes, expectations and needs. As far as the assessment of working conditions is concerned, I must refer you to my colleague in charge of employment. On this issue, we remain in contact with the sector to inform its members about their rights and opportunities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u44	That was effective! Mr Minister, you are referring me to your colleague, to whom I was able to ask a question on the same subject yesterday. However, he did not develop assessments of working conditions. Unless I'm mistaken, according to the gender mainstreaming plan, it's your skills that the question arises. This will sometimes require clarification. You say that there is no legal need to strengthen the rights of so-called sex workers. Nevertheless, I think it would be in the best interests of us to check that we are not moving any faster in decriminalizing sex work, although in fact it is already, - we are talking about the decriminalization of pimping - without strengthening the rights and the facilitation of access to them for people in prostitution. When the draft comes to Parliament's table, we will ensure that all this progresses well together and that the precariousness of these people is not reinforced.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u45	Madam President, Minister, since the 2000s, we have been witnessing a massive diffusion of technology in all productive activities and, more generally, in society. This is particularly important in Belgium, where 169 industrial robots per 10,000 employees are recorded, while the world average is 69 robots per 10,000 employees. Mr. Minister, we cannot deny that robotics and digitization allow for better productivity and performance, which are beneficial to our country's economic growth. However, technology does not only bring benefits; it radically challenges the functioning and organisation of certain sectors and sectors, which leads to a risk of job loss. Added to this, it is crucial to underline the fact that the wealth produced by technological change is not shared equitably among all Belgians. In the long term, technological change will mainly benefit the highly skilled workforce, while the rest of the population - which has seen its added value decrease - will be forced to fight for low-paid jobs. Minister, the growing share of digitization in our economy requires us to rethink the model of work. It is imperative to intervene quickly to regulate and legislate this development, which both leads to a risk of job loss and increases social inequalities. What avenues do you propose to address these problems? Have you ever considered the creation of a social contribution on technology that would draw an amount from the added value created by robots and that would be directly injected into the common pot of our social security?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u46	Madam Chair, Ms. Thémont, it is true that automation and digitization represent both an opportunity and a challenge. Automation can increase productivity and prosperity, but, as you said, it also threatens to increase inequality. McKinsey stated in a 2017 report that approximately 50% of all gainful activities can be automated using technologies already available today, but only a small percentage, less than 5%, can be fully automated. Human intervention is therefore still necessary. McKinsey, however, expects that in about 60% of occupations, at least one third of the tasks will be covered. McKinsey therefore estimates that between 0% and 30% of the total number of hours worked will be automated but retains 15% as an indication. What we must remember is that human input and work are always essential. Technology changes work and functions, but work does not disappear. In any case, we find that year after year the number of people employed is increasing and the employment rate is increasing year by year. Moreover, in some parts of our country, labour shortages are now greater than before the crisis. Automation can therefore lead to significant job losses in certain sectors and can also put pressure on wages. It is not yet known how this is going to happen in the Belgian economy. Instead of a net loss of jobs, it can also lead to a redeployment of professional activity. This will depend, in large part, on the accompanying policy. In addition to the increasing use of robots and machines to replace human work, our country is also facing another major challenge, namely the ageing of society and the working population. Technological innovation can compensate for labour shortages, so per capita material well-being must not be adversely affected. If digitisation were also to boost productivity, it could even, with the tightening of the potential labour supply, create a margin for increased prosperity. Here are some elements of reflection! The consequences of automation and robotics on the labour market and social security are still uncertain at present. It is therefore important to monitor the impact of automation and robotics on the labour market, but attention must also be paid to taxes that discourage the innovations we need to remain competitive in terms of the productivity of our employees and hence their wages and social contributions on these wages, which remain the main source of funding for social security. Together with the social partners, we are currently examining how the funding base for social security can be maintained at a sufficiently sustainable level to meet the various challenges both in the short and long term. The challenge of automation and robotics is also being considered. It is important that the funding of the social security base is expanded and that the different incomes are structural and predictable. This is necessary to continue to ensure a strong and effective social security system. That is what inspires our policy and also the consultations I have with the social partners on this matter!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answer. As mentioned in my question, I do not question here the fact that robotics and digitisation allow for better productivity and better economic performance. But economic growth cannot under any circumstances be accompanied by a precarisation of workers. I can hear you when you say there is a shortage of labour. But in this case, people will have to be trained at some point in this new technology so that they can maintain their jobs in this context and face the new challenges of tomorrow. Of course, we must adapt to digital change and to changes in our society, the disappearance and the emergence of new jobs, but if we do not implement concrete measures, the medium or low-skilled labour force will be one of the great victims of this transition. I hear from social security that you have contacts with the social partners and that you are attentive to this system. It must continue to persist and be strong and effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u48	Madam President, Minister, the evolution of the number of long-term sick does not leave policy makers unmoved in Belgium. Several actors have expressed their views on this issue and have made suggestions in recent days. Federgon also drew up a twelve point plan with a number of action points. Federgon suggests introducing a binding contact moment to keep the long-term ill and the employer closer in contact. However, it is not customary for the employer to contact a sick staff member at regular intervals. What is your position on this? Do you see any possibility of introducing this effectively? In another point of action, Federgon suggests that doctors would not see the added value of work in a re-integration process and thus are on the side of the sick rather than on the side of employers. What is your position on this? Federgon sees a key role for labour market service providers in the context of reintegration. Do you share that vision and plan consultation with the sector? A new job at another employer is increasingly being looked at in the process of re-integration. Federgon also sees a major role for the interim offices there. Do you share this vision? Federgon proposes to grant a reintegration premium to companies in order to appoint a professional TNW coordinator. Will you include this suggestion in the further discussion on the reintegration of long-term patients? In order to better reflect the gap between ZIV benefits and part-time work, Federgon wants an online calculation tool to convince long-term sick people on financial grounds to get back to work. What is your position on this? The suggestion is made to make work more financially interesting than long-term incapacity for work. What is your view on this? Federgon sees problems between different levels of policy and calls for better coordination between federal and regional levels. Do you experience these problems and what are your policy plans in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u49	Madam President, Mrs Samyn, the first question concerned the installation of a binding contact between the employer and the sick worker. In fact, that is outside my field of competence, because the Minister of Work is competent to do so through the Codex. However, I would like to give you my vision. The recommendation to keep in touch with a sick employee is not new. On any website of an external office for prevention and protection at work you will find the recommendation to keep in touch with sick workers. Research shows that this avoids the risk of a fade-out of the employee. This means that the sick worker slowly disappears from the picture, which significantly reduces the chances of his returning. The employee loses contact with the company. By keeping in touch with the sick, organisations cannot speed up the return to the workplace, but there seems to be a positive impact on the number of workers who eventually return. So I certainly believe in the positive effect, but the incorporation of such an approach into, for example, a company's collective prevention policy is beyond my competence. The next question concerns another partner, namely the treating doctor. A treating physician should always and only keep the patient's interest in mind. I'm definitely never gonna say anything else. Working for a return to work for people with health problems, in the way in which we intend to develop it now, is not contrary either, quite the contrary. We're just working on giving general practitioners grabs. This is, after all, a topic which is not in the current medical education system. We need to build this alertness for the recovery of work into the practice of general practitioners. For this reason, we work together with the National College of Social Insurance and the FPS Social Security on a number of examples of how the pathway to work for people with certain problems might look. In close cooperation with the general practitioners and patient associations we develop a framework for this. In the autumn we will present the results of this work to the stakeholders and we will explore how we can make the material as accessible as possible to as many general practitioners as possible. I am thinking, for example, of integration into the software that general practitioners already use today. However, the feasibility and financial picture of this can only be considered if we are sure that stakeholders support the system. You also referred to the employment services. I fully agree with Federgon that the supervisors of the regional employment services play a very important role, but not just them. We must bear in mind here the aim of returning to work for people with health problems, namely work, preferably from the previous employer. This is particularly the case with the occupational physician and the employer. However, if there is no employer anymore, or if the return to your own employer is not feasible or timely, you will need a supervisor who will look for other work. That is perfectly the job of an employment service. For some people, especially where the impact of the health problem on the functioning is high, more specialised partners will also be involved. There is an extensive and rich network of service providers, and it is not always easy for those involved to find their way. That's what I'm going to do through my concept of back-to-work co-ordination. The return-to-work coordinator I would like to introduce has precisely the task of being a networker who has a good view of the whole field of support and service providers, and who brings the beneficiary who wants and can work on the basis of his possibilities into contact with the right service provider. I can see that other work as well, which brings me seamlessly to your next question. Is temporary work an option? My answer to that is nuanced. During the process of developing the concept of return-to-work coordination, in which we have engaged all members of the government, as well as the social partners, as well as patient and general practitioners' associations, it was very clear that we want to work mainly on sustainable work. Now, of course, sustainable is a very personal concept. For example, for someone who can work up to two days a week, a job that allows this is very sustainable. I can imagine that temporary work can also be sustainable for a certain group of people. I know a case like this from someone who works very well at certain periods of the year, and not in other periods. If a broadcast job makes that kind of work possible, it is a win for all parties in that case. So I am certainly convinced of the added value of the back-to-work coordinator in looking for the step in the path to work that best fits the potential of the people in question, but I do not see them back-to-work coordinators with the employer. On that point, I do not share Federgon's opinion. The return-to-work coordinator must be able to look at the whole picture. As I explained in response to one of your previous questions, return to your own employer if possible, switch to another employer if that is more appropriate. The return-to-work coordinator can certainly join the search for the best service provider to accompany the person in question. The return-to-work coordinator is paid by the sickness fund, and the service provider has often already been financed. The prevention adviser-work doctor can play a role, but also all other forms of support offered through funding from the competent regional authorities. In your next question you refer to the online calculation tool that we want to work out. That is indeed one of the elements that we want to work out in close cooperation with the Social Security Office. Even though we know that money is not the only motivator to get back to work, the fear of insufficient income in moving from one step to another is a serious threshold. That fear is unfounded, because someone who gets a sickness benefit and goes to work part-time always gets better financially. There is, however, a tax problem, since benefits and part-time wages are usually not sufficiently deducted from company tax, which has to be paid in advance. Above all, we want to make it clear through the tool: it always makes people better financially when they go to work, but we certainly need to put aside a little, because taxes will also be higher. The next step is for the FPS Social Affairs Department to consider with the FPS Finance Department whether we can come up with a system whereby the company tax is more closely aligned with the final tax. That is also an answer to your next question. Work is already more financially interesting today than long-term incapacity for work. We must bring it to our attention, because even if people who become ill have to turn in a piece of their income, after a while they go to hell and then the return-to-work path is more likely to be seen as a risk of loss of income. In other words, the added value is unfortunately no longer seen. I will conclude with your question about the cooperation between the federal and regional levels. I do not see any immediate problems there, but above all opportunities. In any case, we include the Länder in the concepts we develop and the actions we take. This applies to policy-makers, but also to stakeholders, relevant administrations and other organisations, for example. For example, very concrete cooperation will be carried out on the basis of the federal action plan for mental resilience at work, but I have also asked the National College for Social Insurance Medicine to involve regional entities in the work on the committees and for the roll-out of my return-to-work co-ordination concept a good cooperation with the regions is absolutely necessary. One of the core tasks of the coordinator is to build a network. For example, consideration is also being given to the safe sharing of relevant information for the journey. So we are going beyond purely tuning. It's really about implementing a whole concept together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive reply. I would also like to thank you for answering the questions that lie outside your competence. There are certainly useful suggestions in the Federgon Action Plan. Of course, this also falls within the competence of the Minister for Labour. The solution to the problem of the long-term unemployed will require good cooperation. I understand from your answer that you are following this closely. I'm missing a case in the many studies that appear. A survey of the very large group of long-term sick shows that they mainly indicate mental illness as a reason for the absence of work. Do we really have a good idea of the root causes of this? I am thinking, for example, of too little pay for work, no appreciation for the work done, bullying at work, problems with childcare, a difficult private situation. It would be useful to have a thorough study on this. At Federgon we see two elements that seem useful to us. Firstly, work must be more financially interesting than long-term incapacity for work. The financial difference between non-working must be sufficiently stimulating. This will motivate some of the low-wage workers to take the step back to the workplace. I'm talking about stimulating and not punishing. Secondly, there is also the problem of the different levels of policy, the federal level and the regional level, which are responsible for this issue. Minister, you will not be surprised that our party wants to see this matter regulated at regional level, especially since the labour market in Flanders and Wallonia and Brussels is completely different. In our view, this can best be done by means of a specific own approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u51	Question No 55019775C by Mrs Evita Willaert was turned into a written question. The same applies to questions Nos 55019867C and 55019868C by Mrs Nadia Moscufo.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u52	Minister, I receive almost weekly e-mails from reception parents who are concerned about their pension rights and other social rights. After all, reception parents who have worked as a reception parent for years before the entry into force of the sui-generis statute in 2003 receive a small pension, because the years before 2003 do not count for their pension calculation. They did not build up individual rights, even though they worked hard all these years. In addition, other aspects of the sui-generis status need to be reviewed. I mentioned earlier the problem of the progressive work resumption. Host parents play an important role in our society and therefore deserve full social protection and a full pension for all the years they have worked. In January 2021, i.e. six months ago, I already asked you about the state of play in the assessment of the sui-generis status, because we agreed in the government agreement that the statute would be reviewed and updated afterwards. You indicated at that time that you wanted to deal with the evaluation very thoroughly and that you would question all the actors involved. You then reported, in January 2021, that you expected to complete this in the first half of 2021. That is why I am once again asking you about a state of affairs. How are you getting on with the evaluation? Have you already consulted with your colleagues who are also competent, namely the Minister of Work and the Minister of Finance? Have you also had a discussion with the Communities in the context of the evaluation? What other organizations do you have involved, such as the Family Union? Which organisations do you still want to involve in the evaluation, should they receive a second part? What conclusions can you draw from the evaluation? What actions will you take? When can we expect the final revision or the proposal to revise the sui-generis statute? Minister, the pension aspect is particularly important. If we are to discuss the global pension reform here in Parliament in the autumn of 2021, we certainly need to address the pension of the host parents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u53	Mrs Lanjri, I know that the issue is very close to your heart. The status sui generis of the reception parents is the subject of an evaluation, in accordance with the government agreement. We have discussed with the policy cells of my colleagues Dermagne, Lalieux and Van Peteghem how we best implement them. We want to deal with that in two stages. In a first phase, the administrations concerned will analyse the sui-generis status and prepare the evaluation. In a second phase, we will ask the social partners in the National Labour Council to discuss the results of the first phase and to evaluate the status. The first phase has three objectives: better understanding of the current legal framework of social security, labour law and taxation, better understanding of the potential problems, gaps and improvements at federal level and the collection of all available figures since the introduction of the Staff Regulations. It is intended that the various federally competent administrations, namely the RSZ, the FPS Social Security, the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation, the RVA, the Federal Pension Service and the FPS Finance, work together on this analysis. Other important interlocutors are the competent institutions of the Communities, such as Kind and Family for the Flemish Community, l'Office de la Naissance et de l'enfance for the French Community and the Zentrum für die gesunde Entwicklung von Kindern und Jugendlichen for the German-speaking Community, which are also involved in the preparation of the evaluation. My collaborators, together with Minister Dermagne's policy cell, have already had an initial exploratory consultation with the representatives of the Joint Committee 331. In addition, consultations were held on 30 June between the relevant policy cells at the federal level and those of the Communities. The policy pursued in the Communities and the expectations of the Communities with regard to the evaluation of the federal status of sui generis for reception parents were discussed. So far, the Social Security Office, in charge of coordinating the project, has contacted the various institutions concerned with a request to contribute to their competence. The administration is currently finalising an analysis paper based on the various contributions received. She will discuss that note with my staff before the summer break. During the months of July and August, the note will be refined; you will see that we are not sitting still. In this way, the NAR will be able to start its second phase in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that you have given a comprehensive answer, but I am, to some extent, disappointed. When I asked the question about the evaluation in January, you hoped to be able to complete the evaluation by now. I note that it is still being discussed how the evaluation will be carried out. It's true now. Hopefully we will continue to work effectively now. The issue is important. The social partners must certainly be ready with pensions by the beginning of September. For example, we can discuss the various social security aspects for reception parents. We can't miss that boat. In particular, we need to solve the pension problem for reception parents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u55	Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u56	I answered a question from you in this connection in March. A working group has been set up within the administration to study the issue of living together. However, the outbreak of the pandemic has prevented the working group from continuing its work. The members of the working group had to deal with the management of the effects of the pandemic on social security and concentrate on the current priorities. Unfortunately, that is still the case. So it really is a problem of manpower. A number of members of this working group are also seconded to different policy cells. However, I can assure you that the Social Security Office is doing everything in its power to strengthen the teams. This should enable them to resume the examination of this issue, the consequences of cohabitation and new forms of cohabitation. That will be done as soon as possible. I can't give you an exact schedule today. However, I asked the working party to consider the points raised in your questions in future work. In its work, the Working Group will focus on the different use of the concept of living together in the different branches and sectors of social protection. Furthermore, the implicit equivalence scales in Belgian social protection will be compared, both nationally and internationally. By the national perspective, I mean the comparison of the different branches and sectors, with the international perspective, I mean the comparison with other systems. In addition, attention will be paid to an analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of a number of policy proposals in this area, in terms of adaptation to new forms of housing, gender equality, social support and so on. Mrs Lanjri, the work has therefore been delayed. I hate to say it, but it is. I urge that this be resumed as soon as possible and focus on your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u57	I hope, Minister, that progress can be made soon. I will ask for a new state of affairs in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u58	Mrs Leroy, you are asking me two critical questions about the evolution of the status of artist. For three months, we consulted intensively with industry federations and actively included the shared proposals on the "Working in the Arts" digital participation platform. The framework was clear: the government agreement and its agreement in principle. As agreed, in recent months we have focused on modernizing the regulations for the Artists Commission, the RPI (income from small allowances) and unemployment. Of course, all the participants in the technical working group knew that from the first day. The platform had even announced it as such. The approach taken in recent months was nevertheless, I dare say, historical and innovative. As is always the case with innovative methods, some aspects can be improved. However, as competent ministers, we are rather satisfied with the substantive framework that the working group presents in the reform proposal. You say that other opinions have been expressed on social networks. I am happy to believe you, because it demonstrates the involvement of the participants. Moreover, I know from experience that the debate on the social protection of artists and other cultural workers has always provided a subject for discussion of interest. Now we are going to take the time to consult the social partners, because my colleagues and I are going to ask them to give a formal opinion. In doing so, they will be able to take into account, among other things, proposals from the sector. On the basis of the proposal for a reform of the technical working group, on the one hand, and the opinions of the social partners, on the other, we will draw up a proposal for a regulation. As we have done before and during the participation journey, we will not fail to organise a regular consultation of the sector on this subject. You know that there is a transparent feedback and consultation within the government, with all the political groups, in the form of a follow-up committee. The first objective remains a better social protection, which is more extensive than before, which takes more account of the particularities of artistic practice and which is simpler and more adapted. In order to achieve a balanced and forward-looking framework, we must have the courage to reform and adapt existing regulations from this framework. Thanks to broad transitional rules, anyone with a visa or artist status will have sufficient time to adhere to the new regulations. Our other objective remains that which the government has decided on in principle: to foster a holistic political approach that strengthens the socio-economic position of cultural workers. In this context, however, we note that the discussions on social protection in the technical working group have regularly led the sectoral federations and the experts concerned to conclude that a number of structural problems remain and deserve our attention. They mention, among other things, the underfunding of the sector, the need for better agreements on correct remuneration and the need for more sustainable jobs. We will take these comments into account in future discussions. We will also share these concerns with the ICD Culture Working Group where we will ask the appropriate functional minister if and how these issues will be addressed in the coming months or years. Finally, the various governments concerned have agreed within the ICD to work together to strengthen the socio-economic position of cultural workers. I hope you share our concern about these aspects. Thank you already for your involvement, Mrs. Leroy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic555x.u59	Minister, thank you. I also exchanged with Minister Dermagne yesterday afternoon. You know my commitment on these issues. I would like to offer you all my encouragement for the approach that has been yours since the beginning. But as far as the method is concerned, I hear two different things: you are talking about a government agreement and an agreement in principle. The latter would be clear and would concern, inter alia (but mainly) the reform of the unemployment benefit. Yesterday, Minister Dermagne told me that the door had been opened more widely. I would like it to be re-discussed not for the principle, but to say that if we want to recognize and consider invisible work, we must speak symbolically about work and not about the absence of work. However, as long as we remain in the concept of measures derogating from unemployment benefits, we continue to invoke the idea that there would be a problem of work activity, which is absolutely not the case. You are talking about the time to be left to the social partners. I'll be right with you. But I would like to allow the social partners and all those who have made a strong commitment to this work since the beginning of this crisis. I know that we are in an emergency, but this summer must be for everyone a summer of relaxation; we must not put pressure on them to provide us with answers at the beginning of September. I'm asking them to have a little more time. I hope that, during these exchanges, minorities, people who have spoken in different ways, will have been heard and heard. It is not because they are a minority that they do not have elements to properly defend. It would really be a competition for this sector, if we did not hear all the specifics. It is sometimes important to hear the most fragile minorities in order to have the widest possible social protection. If we protect the most fragile or the most minority, we must protect the greatest number of people. I hope – and I am sorry to have exceeded my speaking time – that we are not going to favour numbers and commodification. In view of the notes and analyses I have been able to read, I find that we often rely on encrypted demonstrations to open up insurance rights. The stamp is taken into account, the days of service. We're contracting. The qualitative aspect of the rights guaranteed is too rarely taken into account. On the quantitative side, work still needs to be done. However, as I have already said, we stand by you to work on the improvements that will have to be made to this reform. Anyway, thank you, Minister, for the time you have devoted to this one.
