ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u2	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u3	François De Smet, Sophie Rohonyi. The Committee on the Constitution and Institutional Renewal proposes to reject this proposal for revision. (1629/3) The Committee on Constitutional and Institutional Renewal proposes that this proposal for revision be rejected. (1629/3) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague, Mr François De Smet, has introduced a bill to enshrine the principle of secularism in Article 7a of the Constitution. The Committee on the Constitution met to discuss this proposal three times: on 26 May, 7 July and 17 November 2021. Several discussions took place in the Committee on the Constitution and mainly on the difficulties of including the principle of secularism under this legislature in the Constitution, and in particular in Article 7a and Title Ia, with regard to the list of articles open for revision rather than on the principle as such. Several parties have raised this difficulty and that of vocabulary, I want to say. The MR Group, in the voice of our colleague Mrs Gilson, felt that it would prefer to refer to the concept of neutrality rather than secularism by referring to their text on the subject, but that, obviously, Article 7 bis of the Constitution, which relates to sustainable development, did not seem to it to be the ideal place for incorporating the principle of secularism. Mr Dewael recalled the numerous in-depth debates that took place during the previous parliamentary term on this subject and said that it should be noted that the previous government did not allow the articles to be opened for revision, which allowed the principle of secularism to be introduced into the Constitution and that therefore, any ambitious amendment on this point is impossible. By my voice, the Socialist Group has also reiterated its position on this subject, namely that the group is committed to the concept of secularism and, in particular, to its inclusion in the Constitution. We also found that linking the principle of secularism to article 7 bis of the Constitution was not in line with the preconstituent's intention and that the list of open-ended articles did not allow this principle to be included. We have indicated that it is in this context that a proposal for a revision of the Constitution to strengthen the principle of the primacy of positive law over any religious or philosophical prescription, to better guarantee human rights, fundamental freedoms, the equality of women and men, to enshrine the secularism of the Belgian State, has been tabled. This text has a broader purpose than secularism and aims at the consecration of other fundamental principles. In the wake of the technical and legal debates that led the commission, advice was sought from the Chamber's legal services on the selection of the DéFI group and Mr. From Smet to work through article 7 bis of the Constitution. This opinion was requested on 7 July 2021. The note from the Legal Services took place on 27 September 2021. The opinion recalled that, under previous legislatures, the proposals to include a provision on secularism in the Constitution were mainly aimed at inserting the proposal in Title II of the Constitution. This opinion therefore wonders whether, in practice, "the proposed provision should not instead be found in Title II of the Constitution, which is not, however, open for revision and concludes that the proposal seems to us to be admissible only if it clearly deduces from parliamentary work that the new provision constitutes a general policy objective within the meaning of current Title Ia and Article 7a of the Constitution." My colleague, Mr. De Smet then tabled an amendment to make the principle of secularism more an objective of general policy with reference to Title Ia in which Article 7a of the Constitution is situated rather than as a principle, in which case it should be available in Title II. Nevertheless, the majority of the Committee on the Constitution - I would like to say unanimously - felt that these amendments would violate the preconstituent's will and circumvent the legal objection raised in the Legal Services' note and rejected the amendments. It is therefore obvious to many that this question must be asked and debated within the framework of the next constituent, in any case for those who understand secularism as a principle of the organisation of the State and our democracies. The proposal made and the amendment tabled were unanimously rejected in the Committee on the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur, but also all colleagues. Indeed, the few debates in committee on secularism were of a good level. Nevertheless, I regret that this proposal cannot succeed under this Parliament because its cause is right. We felt that it was possible and desirable to include in the Constitution the principle of political secularism, from this legislature, in Article 7bis open for revision, despite the technical difficulties which, in our view, were not insurmountable. In this highly sensitive dossier, let's try to get a little higher. I think there is a great misunderstanding about what secularism is and what it is not. Political secularism is a principle of state organization vis-à-vis all beliefs of any kind. It does not favour or penalize any of them. Better yet, it puts all convictions on an equal footing and protects them. I've heard strange things lately. Thus, there would be fundamentalists of secularism, which is not the case. There is no more fundamentalism of secularism than secular fundamentalism, than fundamentalism of democracy or a dictatorship of human rights. These are oxymores, and repeating them in loops will not be enough to make them reality. Secularism is not an ideology. It is a system of values that channels ideologies built around political, religious or philosophical dogmas. We wish to include secularism in the Constitution in order to open the debate on the financing of cults, for example, but also to put an end to the endless legal controversies about the neutrality of public services. This seems to us more necessary than ever in the current context. That is why we are so committed to it and want to send this signal today. There are ideological forces in this country that are trying to make it appear that the neutrality of public services as it has been practiced for decades, including the neutrality of appearances, would now have become discriminatory. There are ideological forces trying to use judicial decisions to achieve progress on so-called inclusive neutrality, in an increasingly harmful climate. For if we ever bother, if we try to say that these developments may not be in line with the spirit of our Constitution, that perhaps this is not neutrality as it has always been practised in our country and that it would rather be the ideologies, whether religious, political, trade union, philosophical or other, to adapt to the neutrality that the opposite is the case, we take a flight of green wood. At best, we are told that we are obsessed with one subject, that it is not important, that we have to deal with climate change or economic recovery, as if it prevented the other, strange concern for priorities that no one would accept as admissible, like other subjects such as the regularization of undocumented people or the status of artists. And yet, secularism and neutrality are important subjects. They are worth statements, debates and even crises. For if this were not the case, it should be said that the struggle waged over the last 200 years to secularize society against the Church is not an important subject. Suffice it to say that the fight against the weight sometimes taken by certain religions on the lives of each and every one is not an important subject. In other words, women's right to dispose of their lives, their bank account and, above all, their bodies is not an important subject. So we cannot allow such an ideological hold-up to take place. Is there racism today? Of course. Is there discrimination and sexism? Of course. Does this have anything to do with defending a secular and neutral state? No, three times no. The desire to ensure real neutrality in public services is not intended, for example, to annoy or bully our Muslim fellow citizens who choose to wear a scarf. Simply because this neutrality existed before the arrival of Islam in Belgium and this neutrality requires all religions and beliefs, including political ones, to submit to it, all without exceptions and without privileges. It is an achievement of high struggle against the weight and influence of an all-powerful Catholic Church. This is part of our identity. To abandon it or to decline it according to demographic changes, as has been said, is to say that our fundamental principles are modulable according to the Region or neighbourhood in which we live. Do we realize what this means and involves? Will what we are told today for neutrality not be worth tomorrow for animal welfare or the day after tomorrow for human rights? This small music also translates a balance of power which, under the guise of a struggle for the victims of discrimination, effectively excludes another series of victims: women or men who are victims of community or family pressure, prompting them to respect certain religious or belief obligations, sometimes including the wearing of a belief sign. These people do exist. We all know them. Are there more or less victims of discrimination on the basis of religious belief? No one can answer this question because statistically, these people do not exist. They have no recourse to complain about acts of proselytism in the workplace, for example. They cannot complain, either at Unia's or at the Human Rights League. They need the neutrality of public services and bread, because it is now one of the only ramparts they have at their disposal. In conclusion, I know that our proposal is welcomed coldly, sometimes for ideological reasons but sometimes also for legal and technical reasons, including by persons or parties who might agree with us, because we would not include secularism in the right article to be revised. The work has shown that including secularism as a political objective in the Constitution is yet feasible today. We ask you to be brave and to vote against the rejection to send a signal, the signal that secularism is a strong value today and that it is largely time to consolidate the dikes in these uncertain times both against racism and against the retreat of identity, without having to give in to either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u6	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this revision proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal to reject this proposal for revision will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u7	Voters 89 Stemmen White or invalid 1 Blank or invalid Valid 88 Geldig Absolute majority [[45]] Volstrekte meerderheid Mr Michel Forges, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared an alternate for Mr Olivier De Schutter. Mr Michel Forges, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed an alternate member of Mr Olivier De Schutter. Mr Olivier Michiels, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared an alternate for Mr Jacques Fierens. Mr Olivier Michiels has received the absolute majority and has been appointed as alternate member of Mr Jacques Fierens Mr Jan Ghysels, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared alternate for Mrs Eva Brems. Mr Jan Ghysels, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed an alternate member of Mrs Eva Brems. Mr Jesse Stroobants, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared an alternate for Mr Koen Lemmens. Mr Jesse Stroobants, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed an alternate member of Mr Koen Lemmens. Ms Ariane Todts, having obtained an absolute majority, was appointed alternate of Ms Muriel Clavie. Ms Ariane Todts, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed as alternate member of Ms Muriel Clavie. Ms. Katrin Stangherlin, having obtained an absolute majority, was appointed alternate of Ms. Isabelle Fontignie. Ms Katrin Stangherlin, who had received the absolute majority, has been appointed as alternate member of Ms Isabelle Fontignie. Mrs Regine Claeys, having obtained an absolute majority, was appointed alternate of Ms Evelyne Maes. Ms Regine Claeys, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed as alternate member of Ms Evelyne Maes. Ms. Francine Esther Kouablan, having obtained an absolute majority, was appointed alternate of Ms. Julie Lejeune. Mrs Francine Esther Kouablan, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed deputy to Ms Julie Lejeune. Mr Yves Aerts, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared an alternate to Mr Willem Debeuckelaere. Mr Yves Aerts, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed an alternate member of Mr Debeuckelaere. Ms. Sarah Scheepers, having obtained an absolute majority, was appointed alternate to Mr. Frank Judo. Ms Sarah Scheepers, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed as alternate member of Mr Frank Judo. Ms. Annick Hellebuyck, having obtained an absolute majority, was appointed alternate of Ms. Isabelle Dean. Ms Annick Hellebuyck, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed an alternate for Ms Isabelle Doyen. Mr. Willem Verijdt, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared an alternate for Mr. Guy Cox. Mr Willem Verijdt, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed an alternate member of Mr Guy Cox. The individual votes cast will be included in the annex to the full report of the next plenary session. The individual results will be included in the annex to the Integrated Report of the next plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u8	Madam Secretary, a story with a virus. Thousands dead. 15 million mouth masks. Dozens of millions of euros. A minister. The army. PO Box companies. It's a Jordan businessman. Terrorist money. A bank on a blacklist. I tried to wear out the script in Hollywood, but everyone there thought it was a little too unbelievable. To be honest, I didn't lose it on the pavement. That was my reply, Madam Minister, to the response of then Minister of Defence, Mr Goffin, when I questioned him in May last year about the mask saga with Avrox. And look, that for Hollywood's unbelievable scenario has become even more unbelievable. Is it incompetence? Is it corruption? Is it a case of willing victimization of scam? Or do you think, Madam Secretary, that it is all a coincidence and that nothing is going on? That is a number of questions to which I would like an answer from you. Madam Secretary, it could be the beginning of a bad joke. Once upon a time there were two Frenchmen and one Jordaner who were going to supply mouth masks to the Belgian state. One Frenchman was a football broker, the other Frenchman was a restaurant owner. The Tunisian lender was a shareholder of a bank that Israel had blacklisted because of its links with the terrorist Hamas. With any normal person, that would ring a bell, but not with our policy makers. Not with then Secretary of Defense Goffin. He said about this in this House, and I quote: 'we have no evidence that our partner is unreliable'. Together, these three good boys are a cheerful friend gang that is going to provide our country with around 15 million mouth masks. Together they set up Avrox, a mailbox company in Luxembourg. Someone in the money cell reacts surprised by the words: "I find it strange that one has to work with a mailbox company for the delivery of mouth masks." And he goes on, "Mostly she's the firm's empty boxes. So you are legally and financially involved in unknown areas." Avrox has the social capital of a typical Flemish frietkot. According to former Secretary of Defense Goffin, that's no indication that this partner is unreliable. In fact, he says Avrox isn't a P.O. Box company. He really said that... Could someone please explain to me what to call a company which does not have a working telephone number and which has its registered office at an address where there are another 40, I think 37, other companies. I can't find a better example of a P.O. Box company on the planet. Madam Minister, we could therefore ask ourselves why a restaurant owner and a football broker use a P.O. Box company when they are going to deliver mouth masks to the Belgian state. Our money-laundering man says: "People who work with a mailbox construction usually do so to hide their identity. You have to ask yourself, why do they care?" Why do they do that, colleagues? Why would they do that? That's a good question. The answer isn't difficult at all. To quote the famous Flemish philosopher Kamiel Spiessens: "It is not difficult, it is easy." They use a mailbox company to hide that they have no experience, not with the production of mouth masks, not with the delivery, not even with any other form of textile. Their experience with the production and delivery of mouth masks is zero, nada, noppes, 0.0. I'll give you one more spicy detail. The only registered economic activity of AVROX was initially - Mr Freilich will probably confirm this - the rental and rental of cars and light vehicles. For former Secretary of Defense of Minister Goffin, that was no reason to suspect that our partner might be unreliable. Who doesn't order a pair of stockings or a T-shirt from his car dealer, right? But don't worry, there might have been a very good reason to have a questionable post-bus company with questionable partners deliver 15 million mouth masks to the Belgian state, and not one of the established values of the admirable textile industry we have in this country. Maybe, for example, they had a good reference, who knows. Yes, that was the reason. According to our former Secretary of Defense, Mr Goffin, AVROX had a reference to a delivery not of 100,000, but of no less than 1 million mouth masks to another state. Only it didn't turn out right. That information didn't add up. In fact, that turned out to be a lie. A bit of investigative work by journalists, you see, from time to time there are those who still exist, good journalists...................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's in Mauritius that doesn't even do textiles. For our former Secretary of Defense, that was no problem, that was no indication that our partner was unreliable. Colleagues, have I mentioned the fact that the standards for mouth masks were magically changed one day before the award of the public contract? As a result, AVROX remained magical and equally sudden in the running. I can imagine that for the then Secretary of Defense, Mr Goffin, for whom he wasn't supposed to know, that wouldn't have been an indication that our partner was unreliable. But who cares about the temperature at which one can wash a mouth mask? Who grinds on some nanoparticles of silver and titanium dioxide in a mouth mask? Who cares about the violation of European rules when placing biocidal products on the market and using them? After all, it's just about public health, isn't it? I will not dwell on the fact that Avrox was substantially more expensive than any other candidate supplier. I suspect the minister at the time thought that an expensive purchase was also a good bargain. The Minister therefore did not regard this expensive offer as an indication of the possible unreliability of the partner. Madam Secretary, was Defence aware of the fact that Avrox's reference was fake or false at the time when your predecessor in Parliament stated that it was a delivery to another state? Do you have any indications that your predecessor, Mr Goffin, was aware of the falseness in the reference? Has Avrox's offer, with more specific reference, been checked, and if so, who checked it and how did it happen? Will you start an investigation in your department to get the file straight to the bone? What do you think, Madam Secretary, has our country been swindled, has the Defense been swindled, has the taxpayer been swindled?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u9	Madam Secretary, I'm going to start with a quote from you a few months ago: "The fact that Avrox was able to carry out the supply of the masks has proven it by providing 15 million qualitative mouth masks. I am convinced that the masks continue to contribute to our fight against the pandemic to this day." Quod nun, Madam Secretary. I repeat your words: 'Qualitative masks that contribute to our fight against the pandemic'. Well, this week we learned that the public prosecutors of Avrox have charged four of them with money laundering, scam and forgery. The chronicle of an announced fiasco. I was the first one on the barricade, here on the Chambers Committee, to say that this wasn't right and this case smelled in the wind for hours. Let me briefly mention the misery we experienced with Avrox's mouth masks. Firstly, Avrox turned out to be a PO Box company, and secondly, there were a lot of shady figures behind it, like a Jordan who lives in Malta but also had several companies in Panama. The masks came hopelessly late and hundreds of thousands of pieces were rejected. The label on the package said Oeko-Tex. I called Oeko-Tex in Switzerland and they said the mouth masks weren't theirs and the label was forged. Furthermore, the reference appeared to be falsified. Next point, the masks should not be washed at more than 30°C, while everyone knows that one should wash at a higher temperature if one wants to remove the virus. Not so much for Avrox's masks, apparently. As a blow to the flare, the masks were taken out of the market because they may have been toxic. Fantastic! How's that going? The colleagues here complimented me a great deal. Vincent Van Quickenborne called it a rearguard fight and Wouter De Vriendt talked about scaremaking. What did I hear from a reporter from the VRT? I won't mention his name. I won't give him that much credit. He was talking about Michael Freilich's screw-up, but today it turns out I've been wrong, unfortunately. I'm sorry to say, because it would have been better if I hadn't been right. People often ask where the tuxedo gun is in this story. Is there a tuxedo gun here? Madam Secretary, there are dozens of them. If we put them all on the ground, we'd see a plume of smoke from here to Tokyo. Let me sum up some of them. We work with a P.O. Box company. Isn't that weird? Why don't we check who's behind these companies? How is it that Belgian companies with good references are excluded and that their references are not good, when they turned out to be good? Other features in the file are waved away. This is how the award was adjusted. It was already a short period of five days and one day before it appeared that the award would be adjusted. Avrox's mouth masks did not meet the criteria, which should not be bought because the criteria were very clear. The mouth masks had to be individually packed, not per five, and they had to be washed at 60 °C or more. One day before the end of the award, there was a new NBN standard and suddenly there was no obligation to wash the masks at 60 °C, it was allowed at 30 °C. That's really weird. Hence my question as to why the Department of Defence has not seen it. Is this about arrogance? That is possible, because we are not looking at a Member who comes up with a number of things. Is this about naivety, incompetence or possible corruption? I don't know. Hence my question to you whether you will investigate this. I'm asking no more than that, let's start an internal investigation. The court said we were being scammed. Many of our questions have still not been answered. I just want to hear from you that those questions are justified and that you will investigate this to the bone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u10	Madam President, as Mr Dallemagne also asked me a question, I will answer him although he is not present. He'll be able to watch the video.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u11	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u12	Can I start, Mr. Franken? Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time I have been asked about the issue of the acquisition of masks by the Defence. You know that I am taking this matter very seriously, given the importance of the transaction concluded in the very particular context of the pandemic that we knew at the time and that unfortunately we still know today. The masks ordered by Defence from Avrox were commissioned as a result of a public procurement in May 2020. The procedure then applied for the purchase of the mouth masks was the negotiated procedure without publication, with the handbook delivered to the different candidates on 3 May and the contract awarded on 5 May 2020. Since the conclusion of the procurement procedure, several checks have been carried out. Several bodies have had access to or have access to the file: the Court of Auditors, the Council of State, the Army Purchases and Sales Commission and the Central Office for Combating Corruption of the Federal Police. Following an audit by the Court of Auditors on 8 July 2020, the Court of Auditors concluded that "the Defence applied the rules of the special specification in a rigorous and correct manner, and all tenders were examined in the same manner". On the basis of these findings, no shortcomings have been noted to date with regard to the grounds for exclusion, selection and administrative and technical compliance. The applications for suspension brought to the Council of State by the other tenderers have been rejected and we await the auditor's report on the actions for annulment which have been lodged. In the meantime - I am arriving at this moment in office - we have learned of the opening of a judicial investigation for the prevention of forgery, fraud and money laundering. I confirm to you, and that goes without saying, that my department is fully involved in the investigation. It was in this context that in May 2021, when the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office released its investigation, I asked for the Defence to file a complaint and officially declare itself aggrieved. According to the very terms of this declaration: The crimes cited concern very serious facts. It is in the interest of the Ministry of Defence to determine who the possible perpetrators are and what their modus operandi is. The Ministry of Defence wishes to examine not only whether such acts have been committed or committed, but also whether they have caused material damage by the Belgian State. This investigation, today, remains covered by the secrecy of the investigation. The Public Prosecutor's Office has decided not to comment further, in the interest of the investigation. I told you a few months ago that I had little to communicate with you. This remains the case today. Following the recent developments in the judicial investigation, which have been echoed by the press in particular, I have instructed the Defence to institute a civil action in the hands of the investigating judge in charge of this case. The latter action must enable us to be a party to the proceedings and to defend the best interests of the State if the judicial investigation is to confirm suspicions of misappropriation and lead to prosecution before the courts. In any case, we will remain attentive to the developments in this case, in order to preserve both the image of Defence and the interests of the State in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u13	Madam Minister, I actually forgot to ask a question: what would you do with those poisonous mouth masks that are now rotting somewhere? I wanted to ask you if you were going to burn it when I realized there's enough expertise in the government to burn things. So I'm going to take that question as an answer. At the time, the Defense Department got rid of it by referring to the Court of Auditors. It was to be expected, and even to be predicted, that the Defense Department stated that the Court of Auditors ruled that everything was done correctly. What amazes me is that you, Mrs. Dedonder, are doing the same thing now. You don't or hardly answer my questions, you cycle around that hot knit and you spin around the pot. I had hoped of you and expected you to do what you promised and not just join as a bourgeois party. After all, you were going to start an internal investigation if there was a judicial investigation. That judicial investigation is now in place, four people have been suspected, as Mr Freilich has already pointed out. So there's nothing stopping you from starting that internal investigation on your own. The Court of Auditors has assessed the procedure, but not the references, and yet that is just crucial. On the basis of those reference deliveries, a number of Belgian companies were rejected. Avrox came out of it as a In the Anglo-Saxon part of this world they would say that Avrox hit the jackpot. A price of EUR 2.5 per mouth mask multiplied by 15 million is EUR 37.5 million, Madam Secretary. And if you want to know how much profit Avrox has made, I can paint a pretty good picture of that. I have a document, which I will make public in due course, containing information on a similar supply of non-toxic mouth masks, by the way, in the same period. The cost of those mouth masks was 0.87 euros. This means that Avrox has made a profit of around EUR 24 million! That EUR 24 million was obtained on the basis of a false reference. Only in this country, only in Belgium. Hopefully I will not have to convince anyone that Avrox had a break with the fine clauses of several million euros. In advance, Avrox already knew that it had to pay those fines because it could not deliver in time, but those fines were included in the asking price. So the Belgian State has literally paid its own fines. How is it possible? Has our country been swindled, has the DOD been swindled, has the taxpayer been swindled? The answer is three times yes. Yes, our country has been swindled, yes, Defense has been swindled, and yes, the taxpayer has been swindled. The question that arises is whether it is about corruption, lack of competence or guilty negligence, or perhaps a combination, who knows. Madam Minister, those responsible must be identified and taken on their responsibilities. It is therefore time you clarified this file to the bone. You will probably not be surprised that, out of respect for the taxpayer alone, we have tabled a motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u14	Madam Secretary, I think escroquery is a nice French word, but what lies behind that term is not so beautiful. Our country was swindled, so much is clear. I understand you've asked the DOD to take a bourgeois stand in this case. It's a good thing that Defense and the government are taking the lead now. Unfortunately, the previous government did not want to do that. So we're going in the right direction. I do not think it can be otherwise today, as there is evidence that wrong information has led to an important tender of around EUR 35 million. The supplied mouth masks caused a lot of trouble. This resulted in a great deal of loss of face for politics, and it did damage to the image of our country. We have become somewhat the rise, because the neighbouring countries are laughing at us. I get compliments, that's nice to hear, "Mr. Freilich, well done!" However, these compliments come from colleagues from Great Britain, Germany and Luxembourg. That's actually not what we're doing it for. It would have been much better if we had been a real leader when it comes to tackling the pandemic. The questions have been asked. We know that a number of things were not acceptable. We know that a lot of remarkable things have happened from the beginning. However, we do not know today how it is that the Department of Defence's purchasing service was blind to that. A lot of people ask themselves the question. It also speaks to the imagination: corruption at the highest level. It is important that we come up with answers, including for our people. The people need to know what has happened and what has not happened, how, as I explained to you, the standard was changed to the latter, how it is that the masks of Avrox were not initially allowed to be delivered because they simply did not conform. Suddenly, low and hold, there comes a new standard and the mouth masks of Avrox are not only in order to participate, they also bring in the whole order. I did not receive an answer to the question I asked you. I have also tabled a motion for a resolution on this question. The question is, will you investigate that with the Defense Department itself? Will you carry out an internal investigation to ensure that such matters will not happen again in the future? You did not reply, so I assume you will not ask for an internal investigation. I take it you don't realize that something went wrong with the DOD either. According to you, it's all Avrox's fault. You couldn't have known that. That's not true. We could have known that. It took me eight minutes to find out where Avrox's registered office is. Another three minutes later I knew that 57 companies were also dominated at that same address. You could've figured out who's behind it in the DOD. Couldn't the reference of a completely unknown mailbox company from Mauritius have been investigated twice? A Belgian company from Wallonia, Anti-Chute, which had given a correct reference, was sent hiking. They were told that their reference was not accepted because the name did not appear to be correct. It was indeed a correct reference. Hence the question: if we all see today that our country was being scammed and that the courts are now prosecuting 4 businessmen for money laundering, forgery, etc., should we not dare to ask ourselves if we could not have known? Haven't we made a mistake ourselves somewhere? Staying blind only means that we will repeat the same mistakes. I repeat the question, and that is why I shall be tabling the motion for a recommendation later. Why don't you have this thoroughly investigated? Everyone in this country has the right to know how it could have gone wrong. Again, I'm not saying it was corruption. A lot of people think so. It could be naivety. It may also be just that one is incompetent. There are so many things we don't know. I just want people to investigate this to the bone. At least I won't rest. I would like to be your partner in this matter to explore together how this could have gone so wrong. Let's look into this. I really want to get the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u15	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Steven Creyelman and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Steven Creyelman and Mr Michael Freilich and the response of the Minister of Defence, - having regard to the irregularities in the file in question, - having regard to the discrepancy in the examination of the references of the various applicant suppliers, - having regard to the examination of the Brussels Office, - having regard to the searches carried out at home and abroad in respect of this dossier, - having regard to the fact that four people have been suspected of forgery in writing, money laundering and scams; - having regard to the fact that Avrox's two businessmen were previously arrested in the context of this dossier; asks the government - to examine who is responsible within the Department of Defence for the discrepancy in the examination of the references of the various applicant suppliers; - actively cooperate in the ongoing investigation of this dossier, - keep Parliament informed on a quarterly basis of developments in this dossier. A first motion for recommendation was tabled by Steven Creyelman and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Steven Creyelman et Michael Freilich and the Minister of Defence's response, - in view of the irregularities in the above-mentioned file; - taking into account the disparities in the examination of the references of the various candidates suppliers; - having regard to the investigation carried out by the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office; - having regard to the searches carried out in our country and abroad in connection with this file; - having regard to the fact that four persons have been charged with forgery in writing, money laundering and fraud; - in view of the fact that the two managers of Avrox have already been arrested in the context of this case; asks the government - to investigate who, within the Department of Defence, is responsible for the disparities in the examination of the references of the various candidates suppliers; - to cooperate actively in the ongoing investigation of this case; - to inform Parliament on a quarterly basis of developments in the matter." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Michael Freilich and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Steven Creyelman and Mr Michael Freilich and the response of the Minister of Defence, asks the government - do not await the outcome of the judicial proceedings in order to monitor the operation of the Defence Purchasing Service and, where necessary, strengthen it; - to provide Defence with sufficient resources in the future to enable such urgent procurement to be carried out in the service of other departments.' A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Michael Freilich and reads as follows: "The Chamber, "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Steven Creyelman et Michael Freilich and the Minister of Defence's response, asks the government - not to wait until the outcome of the judicial proceedings to have a radioscopy of the defence acquisition service carried out and to strengthen it where necessary; - to provide the Defence with sufficient means in the future to be able to complete such urgent purchases at the service of other departments." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Jean-Marc Delizée. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Jean-Marc Delizée. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u16	Madam Chair, I ask for urgency with respect to the simple motion that I tabled with other colleagues in the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u17	Prime Minister, questions have already been raised at the start of the government about the feasibility of extending the life of two nuclear power plants, if you did not decide to do so until the end of 2021. Many questions have been asked about this, because the government has put it forward as an emergency scenario, as a relapse. You must, of course, be sure that you can count on it. On 2 October last year, during the plenary session in which you asked for confidence in the new government, you responded to my question about that emergency scenario. At that time I submitted to you that it was formulated in the coalition agreement in such a way that if it were decided at the end of 2021, it would be very difficult to get it done and that it might not even be physically possible anymore, not within the legal framework that exists today. You said this to me at the time. I quote: 'We have made a retro-planning and on this basis it is clear that the LTO dossier, the extension of nuclear power plants, can come to the government later than the end of 2021'. I repeated that question in plenary on 19 November. Once again you said: no problem, we can still do so; extending the life of nuclear power plants can be perfect. By the way, that was the last time you wanted to answer energy questions from me. Afterwards, they were neatly passed on to your colleague, Minister Van der Straeten. In the meantime, we know that the complete dossier of two hundred pages provided to the government by Minister Van der Straeten includes the Minister's report, a report by the FPS Economy and a study by Ghent University. What it does not mean, Prime Minister, are the steps taken by your Minister of Energy to ensure that the extension of the life of the power stations remains possible. What we have seen in the past is that even when the Minister went to the European Commission to talk about the energy dossier, he failed to say anything about the extension. She said in committee a few weeks ago: it was not the time. When was the time? Then I fully understand the MR when it notes that the Minister has not complied with the government agreement, is playing a green rotting strategy and wants to push through the core exit dogmatically. Those were about the words of the MR, not necessarily mine. What exactly is in the file? What we can find is the famous retroplanning that you referred to and which was made in September 2020. You concluded that it was perfectly possible to submit the file to the government after the end of 2021. I just happen to have this retro-planning thing with me. There is something quite different in that, Prime Minister. It says: preparing the draft law, deadline 1 October 2021, debate in Parliament: starting 1 November 2021. It is a mystery to me why you think that the government can still make a decision after the end of 2021. I have your quote on this, too, in case you have a short memory. You say something quite different, unless Mrs van der Straeten had another retroplanning on which you based during the government negotiations. Of course, I can't rule that out. If we dig deeper into the file, we'll see other things. Last week, your spokesperson confirmed that you were going to talk to Engie about the possible extension. That would have been a perfect good first step in 2020. Engie asked a lot of times to talk about that, and that didn't happen. Probably wasn't allowed by your coalition partners. When the N-VA group in Parliament submitted a text asking for bold discussions with Engie, you voted it out massively, with the exception of Mrs De Block, but I think that was a mistake. What the N-VA put on the table was exactly the same as what you were asked to do in the nuclear cabinet on Friday. Then the question is how you dealt with it. When the N-VA asked you to do that, you certainly didn't find the green voter. Asking Engie what is still possible is perhaps the only thing you can do in the file, although I have the impression that it is still a courtesy visit, something you need to communicate and then tick: the no is inside. I do not even know if you were able to have the conversation with Engie, because it was not yet known that you would talk to Engie or the answer was already on the newspaper pages, namely a fat no. The question is, what will you do next? The regulatory framework is not appropriate today to implement this extension. However, there are still possibilities. You need to discuss this in order to ensure that you indicate how the regulatory framework can be adapted to allow for the extension, as the government agreement also stipulates. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is security of supply and cost. We will soon be spending more than half a billion euros on this. A number of members of the government argue that this is hardly a cost. However, I think I deserve a little less. However, these are issues that concern our citizens and businesses, in particular security of supply. That's what it looks like. Look at what's been in the papers over the last few weeks. Citizens and businesses are worried. The list of people who call for a reasonable look at the file is getting longer and longer: Fedustria, the Boerenbond, VOKA, VBO, Unizo, UCM, Union Wallonne des Entreprises and the Royal Flemish Engineering Association. We have recently been able to add Jean-Pascal van Ypersele to the list of people who are opposed to the early closure of nuclear power stations. This also means that the government has to come up with an answer quickly. The Minister for Energy points out that by the end of 2021 she will try to make a decision on the dossier, together with her colleagues. The Chairman of Ecolo states that there is plenty of time for his party. Let it go, let it go, we'll see. Each step and each day longer is one day closer to finding that the extension can no longer be implemented. That is, of course, what people want here. Prime Minister, I have a number of specific questions. Firstly, do you believe that the note drawn up by the Minister of Energy for the nuclear cabinet is a correct translation of the coalition agreement? Is it true that the Energy Minister did not have to take any steps to allow the extension of the two nuclear power plants and that she was even allowed to take steps with your permission to make the extension even more impossible? Is that right? Who's right here? Is that your Minister of Energy or is it the chairman of the MR? Secondly, how do you explain that the explanatory statement on the retroplanning that you gave to Parliament on 2 October 2021 has no link to the effective retroplanning? Is the retroplanning that Minister Van der Straeten mentions in her note the real one or do you have the real one? In both cases there is a problem. Thirdly, did you actually have a serious conversation with Engie? before they sent you their letter? Will you discuss with them what steps the government should take to enable the extension to take place? I see you laughing and grinning, and you seem to find it very pleasant to play with security of supply, but that is not how we see it. Fourthly, when will that decision finally come? Will you keep the file in your hands or will you join us in endless stretching, so that you are really sure that the file will become impossible and that our citizens and businesses will be the victims of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u18	Prime Minister, what were you thinking more than a year ago when the negotiations for the Vivaldi government were being held? I fear that you were already in Rue de la Loi 16 with your head and that at that time you sold your souls at all costs to become Prime Minister, even if that implied a deal with the Greens. Where were Bouchez and outgoing minister Marghem of the MR, who negotiated the coalition agreement? Where were they when the Greens carried out a coup d'état on the security of supply and affordability of our energy? Where were you last year, Prime Minister, when Parliament was given the green paradise that was too good to be true? For hours we discussed the coalition agreement and the absolute guarantee that last month a life extension of the two youngest nuclear power plants could be decided as Plan B. It was the Liberals and the Socialists who even declared our concern unfounded at that time. However, on behalf of my party, I have repeatedly called upon and even taken legislative initiatives to allow a lifetime extension. Before that, there had been enough signals from Engie Electrabel that a decision was forced upon itself. It was not to benefit, everything was good to conquer the 16. Prime Minister, I know that a complete core trip for you and your party chairman, but also for your brothers in the MR, was not and is not heartfelt. Yet you have let the greens roll and let them go home with the trophy of the core trip. The scenes of the past few months have been widespread. I am ashamed instead of many politicians who are acting like apprentice wizards and pursuing an experimental policy that the people will have to pay for, for the lies that the outside world is imagining for the dogma of some who seem to live in another world. Because, Prime Minister, the vivaldi policy is one of ten birds in the air, but none in the hand. We still didn't get to see the promising report officially. Earlier this week, Minister Van der Straeten did not even want to give transparency and clarity about the content of the report, because it could harm the talks within the government. With all due respect, Prime Minister, I'm no longer with you. First, turn the money tap towards gas plants massively open and delight Engie Electrabel with a real jackpot of hundreds of millions of euros, as if they were in a casino. You ignored all the signals from the operator who considered a decision on the extension of the lifespan necessary and allowed Mrs Van der Straeten to rub her glass ball to her heart's content, as a sort of Madame Blanche. Here we are: no certainty about the auctioned gas plants. If there are any, we will depend on the gas of Putin or Lukashenko. The coup de théâtre is so complete that your minister has even come here today to declare that gas plants will not emit CO2, not to mention the capacity that will have to be auctioned in the coming years. We do not really know anything, we have certainty about nothing, except that all nuclear power stations will be shut down, without steel-hard guarantees for what will replace them. What we also know is that the chaos in your government is complete and that the energy file within your team is a nuclear power plant in itself. However, I am being blamed for simplism. Prime Minister, I would therefore like to know why you are not taking action until the calf has already drowned. What did you base yourself on to say that a decision on a possible lifetime extension was still possible last month? What about security of supply and affordability of our energy after 2025? Finally, will you remove Minister Van der Straeten from the file after her last year's run and finally take it into his own hands?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u19	Prime Minister, yesterday morning we learned through the press that a letter from the president of ENGIE's board of directors had been sent to you. It appeared that there was no alternative but to initiate the gradual decommissioning of the nuclear tranches operated so far by ENGIE. In other words, it would be impossible to extend the Doel 4 and Tihange 3 nuclear power plants after 2025. This is not exactly a surprise, since for very long months – more than a year, in fact – ENGIE has kept reminding us that an extension of the power stations was not possible, unless the signal was given before December 2020 – does not displease some members of a party of your majority. At the beginning of the month, we also learned from the press that an evaluation report on the complete release of nuclear energy by 2025, prepared by the Energy Directorate of the FPS Economy and requested by the Minister of Energy, was circulating among the members of Vivaldi. According to this report, which Parliament is not aware of to date, it would appear that the country's security of supply from 2025 – and this, in the context of the total closure of nuclear power plants – would be assured and that the impact on energy prices would be limited. Again, but this is becoming a habit with Vivaldi, it is regrettable to note that the press is better informed than Parliament, which remains in the most complete blur with regard to a dossier with crucial stakes and whose date of arrival was set for 30 November this year. We are already on December 9 and we still don't see where you want to go. My two questions will be very simple. First of all, could you transmit to us parliamentarians a copy of this famous report presented by the Minister of Energy, in order to discuss it in Parliament in a transparent manner and before any decision is taken by the government? Then, following the various statements made in the press by some members of a majority party, which imply that a legislative amendment could be examined in order to extend nuclear power for a short period, could you tell us whether such an undertaking is in progress or, if not, could you confirm a total release of nuclear power by 2025? In fact, we can no longer continue to witness a completely contradictory exchange on a daily basis between your Minister of Energy and the president of one of the parties of your majority. I myself think that the remaining two reactors should be extended for ten, fifteen or twenty years. I think it would be a serious mistake not to do so. But there is worse than making a mistake: leaving us in this uncertainty! It is really time to whistle at the end of recreation because this uncertainty on such a major issue as the energy future of our country is no longer bearable. Prime Minister, I ask you in a different way than my two colleagues, but please whistle at the end of the recreation!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity to have a debate here on the energy future in our country. What really matters in this debate is what energy strategy we have for our country between today and 2040 to 2050. In order to do this properly, the government has indeed - often referred to it - set a very clear path in the coalition agreement with regard to the way in which we intend to deal with it. The discussion we need to have today is how we start it, how we draw up this strategy for where we want to go with energy in our country. So the real question that arises is what decisions we are making today to ensure that our country can take its energy future into its own hands, that innovation can take place in our country that is technologically controlled, that leadership can be developed in our country, that there is economic development in our country in the field of renewable energy, that we create jobs in our country, that we ultimately draw up models that we can export to the rest of the world after application in our country. We have already done so. In the field of windmills on the sea, we are today one of the absolute leaders in the world because we made choices decades ago that were very daring at that time. Today we are one of the leading countries in the world. We have developed an entire industry that now installs windmills at sea all over the world. That is because we then chose to create a stable framework in which innovation could take place, first in our country and then in the rest of the world. The last thing we need to do, in my view, is to reduce this debate to the question of whether or not our country is leaving the old generation's nuclear power. That is actually what the debate is trying to reduce, a debate on two reactors, while the question to be answered is the whole scheme for the whole energy future of our country for the next 30, 40 years. That's the question. That is something we cannot continue to push forward, as has happened far too often in the past. We should also stop reducing the CRM discussion to a discussion as if it were just about gas. Those who have followed the CRM auction have seen that there are gas projects there, as well as world-class projects in the field of batteries, storage of energy and Demand Site Management. We are trying to reduce this debate to a number of elements on which all kinds of cries are being launched, while what we are doing here is laying the foundations for finally drawing up a real energy strategy in our country and taking control of it, rather than being a playball of others who make choices. Let's get to the facts. Mr Wollants, you are talking about the early closure of nuclear reactors. The core exit law dates back to 2003. It is difficult to say that the closure of the reactors in 2025 is something new. That has been in our legislation for so long. In the past 22 years, no government has changed the law of 2003 on the core exit, not even in the Michel government that concluded the Energy Pact in 2018. You were a part of that, you were a very valued participant in the debate we had on this. At that time, it was confirmed that there would be a gradual exit from nuclear power by 2025 and now you have come to say that it is an early closure. We're just doing what was agreed in the past. Then why would you say that this would be something premature, that it would be a surprise, or that we would not be prepared for it? We've known this was coming since 2003. You were then part of the majority who confirmed that. The Energy Pact confirmed that at that time. Will Belgium need new gas plants? If we shut down five reactors or seven reactors, we'll need new gas capabilities. This is not new either. In 2016, Elia had already told us that we had to be careful, look to the future, look at how energy could be produced in a more decentralised way, with much more fluctuations related to the fact that it is renewable energy. Elia warned us that by 2025, we would need a gas capacity to better manage these fluctuations. Even then, Elijah said that the power stations would be obsolete at that time and that we would then need gas. At that time, the Energy Directorate-General said that a subsidy mechanism would be needed, since the profitability of these plants was already too low at the time, and saw it as necessary for us to ensure sufficient profitability to enable us to balance renewable energy. Therefore, the CRM mechanism was launched in September 2019 and reported to the European Commission. Then Minister Marie-Christine Marghem took care of it. Regardless of the decision on Objective 4 and Tihange 3, there will be a need for capacity to ensure that the much greater fluctuation can be absorbed and to fully guarantee energy supply by 2025. That is no surprise either, because since 2016 we know this is coming. There is often a reference to the coalition agreement and anyone following the dossier may already know that passage by heart. The coalition agreement confirms something that seems logical to me in a country in which laws are passed, with associated dates to implement those laws. In the coalition agreement, we said that we would implement the law, which has been reconfirmed by the previous government, unless unforeseen circumstances arise. In the event of unforeseen circumstances, there is indeed a plan B. I note that Minister Van der Straeten has taken full advantage of that dossier from day one. She has fully taken over the work done by her predecessor in the area of CRM. On 15 March, the CRM legislation in this Parliament was adopted, seven implementing decisions were adopted for implementation in June 2021, and in August 2021, European Commissioner Vestager stated that the CRM system is not State aid and is in line with the European Commission's climate objectives. In other words, this support mechanism is needed to meet our climate objectives. In September the auction took place and at the end of October we got the result. The report of Elia, our network operator, said it was a successful auction, which was competitive, with prices lower than expected. For those who have all kinds of considerations about this auction: she was organised by Elijah, controlled by an external auditor, approved by the CREG, and it is said that it was a competitive auction. What does a competitive auction mean? That means that whoever won the auction offered a low price, and that is the intention. This is one of the goals we wanted to achieve: that there is room in the Belgian market, a market opportunity, and that market players are willing to offer it because they want to be part of it. I hope you still believe in a piece of market forces. When I hear some of you, it should almost be that the government takes it entirely on its own. The aim of that auction was to ensure market functioning. In a healthy market, companies that want to get something offer low prices. Elijah confirms that the prices offered there are actually lower than they expected. Mr Wollants, you asked us what we based ourselves on in retro-planning. The timing is based on a planning made by the Federal Planning Bureau, together with the FOD Energy. They based this on information they received from Engie in 2020. If that slope had to be walked, it would have to take place in November. The retroplanning also states that if there should be a law on the LTO, the timing for this is May 2022. You're saying that timing is completely unfeasible. I don't think so. If that law on the LTO were to be adopted, it could take place in May 2022. That timing is certainly feasible. The Minister responsible has ensured that the plan A can be worked out. The plan B could be legally feasible. The nuclear operator did send us a letter. I have been in contact with Engie in recent days, asking them very explicitly how they view the Belgian energy market. They replied that they are actually very interested in the Belgian energy market. It was one of the reasons why they offered very low prices at the CRM auction. They also know that it is a very competitive market, which makes for more competition. Who's that letter I got a surprise for, anyway? I hope it wasn't a surprise for anyone. In fact, in 2020 and 2021, the message that the choice was made was given several times. The government had a law that was reconfirmed in 2018. Then there was a government agreement stating that we intend to implement that law as well. This would be expected in any country that operates in a normal way. In the coalition agreement, we put in place a safety option in case the CRM would not be approved by the European Commission. Quod nun. That was an option for the case where there would be too little interest in investing in our country. Quod nun. It was an option for the case where the prices offered would be far too high and the impact on the final consumer would be too great. Quod nun. A study by Ghent University indicates that this is absolutely not the case. I note that the Minister responsible has implemented in a very systematic and realistic way what is stated in the coalition agreement. In my view, the only conclusion is that this is a crucial dossier. I agree with you on that. These are choices we are making today to ensure that we can finally develop a real energy strategy for our country, not always pushing out the difficult choices for us because they are too difficult and complex. We didn't get out of the way. The Minister responsible said from day one that she would take this up. She was gonna talk to everyone she had to talk to about that. She made contacts. She convinced the European Commission. She created an auction that was particularly competitive but also provided a stick behind the door. In my view, this has been done perfectly, in the way the government has been expected to do. I understand that you are asking questions about this and that there should be a parliamentary debate on a delicate dossier, but from my interpretation I must say that the Minister is on track in relation to the path outlined. In such a file, that may at last be the case. It may finally be the case that in the energy dossier we set out a path and follow it in the right way, namely a rational way, without clinging to all kinds of cries. We are working out mechanisms that are successful and that ensure that we can finally take control of our future in this dossier. We can now set out our own path to ensure that innovation can take place, that investment can be made in our country and that our country can become a leader in the field of renewable energy. That was one of the key messages of this government, and I note that we are on track in this respect and we are tackling it properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u21	Prime Minister, this is unbelievable. This is unbelievable. You stated, when you came to ask for confidence, that the government could decide on the nuclear exit after 2021 and that the life of the power stations could be extended. The Minister is going to the nuclear cabinet with a note showing that this extension should have been decided by now. You had the retro-planning. You had that at the time when you indicated in the European Parliament that everything could be done after 2021. And what does that explain to you here today? You're saying there's really no problem. Before May 2022, all kinds of legal decisions can still be taken. I seem to have read Mrs van der Straeten's note more than you have, because there is something else in it. Prime Minister, it also contains something different from what your coalition partners read in it. What you are here to say is that everything went perfectly, that Mrs van der Straeten is doing what she had to do and that you are very satisfied with her work. What the MR is pushing forward is bullshit, and what the MR claims isn't really of interest to you. The fact that the MR is concerned about this country's security of supply can actually be stolen from you. That's what you're here to explain. You don't seem to remember what you've explained in the past. The law was indeed adopted in 2003. At that time, members of your party also admitted that the core exit is actually a bad idea. You already changed the law in 2013. You already changed the law in 2015. Your current President has become President at the time he indicated that he would like to change the law again. Only, suddenly there was the 16. As that building attracted your predecessor, Mr Verhofstadt, to become the prime minister of purple-green, so it also attracts you. That's the problem. You argue that the CRM is not just about gas, but the auction is about more than 90% about fossil fuels. What certainty do we have? Mrs Van der Straeten wanted to record 73 percent of the capacity. How many did she record? 40%. Of that 40% there is no certainty as to the new gas capacity. There is no permit for the plant in Vilvoorde and for the file of Les Awirs one can still go to the Council of State. It's already been announced. So what do you know today? You have certainty about one quarter of the security; three quarters of it remains to be decided. And then you find it strange that your coalition partners and interest groups are worried. You're here to give a speech like it's all perfect and we're looking to a future with a new technology. Is that what you think? So are you going for massive exports to half of Europe of fossil technology? Is that what you're going to do, because that's what I hear you say here? That's not the future. That's the way of the past. As far as nuclear power stations are concerned, you should take up the 2003 reports. It clearly states that one-third of the plant's life is being disposed of by limiting it to 40 years. That was completely arbitrary. It's about technology that's largely developed here with us. That's technology we've exported all over the world. The recycling of nuclear fuel has been developed here with us. And then you tell me that you choose to burn gas, because that ensures the independence of this country? Have you understood anything about the whole picture of the supply of natural gas? Why do we have these huge prices today? That is only because we depend on foreign countries, far and near. So, Mr De Croo, to be honest, you have been trying to pin a little on us in the European Parliament. You're acting like you don't remember any of that. You take the side of Mrs Van der Straeten. That is very clear to your coalition partner and to Mr Bouchez. That actually means that it is time for your own core to be split up. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u22	Madam President, Prime Minister, wow, this was like the Really Antwoaps Theatre in its old glory. I can only conclude that she's got you all in her pocket, but apparently Bouchez isn't. In the meantime, I know very well what the fork is about. The different pieces of the puzzle have now become so clear that the puzzle has fallen all together. Prime Minister, allow me to mention man and horse in some of those puzzle pieces. The greens have played the game very handy. Bien youe. As the file was postponed for a year in the negotiations, they knew, after all the signals from ENGIE, that a lifetime extension would no longer be necessary. It is easy to blame the operator now. And yes, that's what you're doing now. Even your party chairman, Mr Lachaert, will pass the blackbird on to the operator. For years the operator has been in contact with this Parliament, he has sent letters. However, he never received an answer. In the meantime, you have tasted him with a pot of gold and the transition blabla, making the temptation to play the green game and finally pull the door of the nuclear power stations behind him. Minister Van der Straeten has looked at the energy file from the outset. I'll tell you why. A former top figure of the Belgian Offshore Platform is now part of her cabinet. It has very good links with high voltage manager Elia who will enrich herself with the import of energy from Denmark and other European countries. That is the truth, Prime Minister. In a previous professional activity, as a lawyer, Mrs Van der Straeten developed her love of gas by defending the interests of Gazprom and Distrigas, among others. It has argued against the start-up of nuclear power plants, which makes its objectivity even more unbelievable today. A very intimate person from her daily life is regularly represented as an independent expert in the media to justify her policy and to suppress all opposition proposals. (...):Level!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u23	Those are just some of the many examples, because I can go on for a long time. Prime Minister, should there be more sand? When will you finally see that you've been fooled? Another piece of puzzles is the role of ENGIE Electrabel, which will lead in the coming years in the production of green electricity in Belgium. If the gas plants will blow the first gram of CO2 through the chimney, assuming they will ever be licensed, ENGIE Electrabel will take over its operation. In other words, Prime Minister, you're in the stranglehold of the Greens and in the stranglehold of Engie Electrabel, and you can't move anymore. The Liberals, Mr Bouchez, with his big mouth in the head, were rolled the bags in front of them. I am less interested in this, Prime Minister, but especially in the fact that the Fleming has been rolled in terms of security of supply and affordability of energy, that we are putting our fate in the hands of something unknown, that we must put our destiny in the hands of the gas of Putin and Lukashenko. Mrs Van der Straeten can live like a kind of Alice in Wonderland and think that one hundred percent of green electricity can be realized in the short term, but it is not. The situation is serious. I can tell you that the population has had enough. In fact, there is no support for the energy policy that is now being pursued. Please bear that in mind, ladies and gentlemen! As Prime Minister, it is time for you to take matters into your own hands, because it is not too late. That is to say, Prime Minister, first of all, you must immediately start tonight to start discussions with Engie Electrabel as part of a lifetime extension of Objective 4 and Tihange 3. Secondly, remove Minister Van der Straeten immediately from the file to prevent further damage. Thirdly, from tomorrow onwards, study the necessary legislative changes with a view to shortening procedures. It's time for you to reconnect with the outside world. It's time you made yourself clear and behaved like a true statesman. It's obvious you're not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u24	Prime Minister, I have a theory on this issue and your comments confirm it in part. My theory is that this case has been in play for a year, since the conclusion of the government agreement. As soon as the Vivaldi parties sign a government agreement where it is agreed not to include CO2 emissions in the assessment, and when it is agreed to take the decision after November 2021 when ENGIE kills itself to say that it is necessary to activate the machine before the end of 2020 to extend the reactors, the mass is said. Either the MR was rolled into flour at the time, or its president has only begun to take an interest in this matter for three months. Maybe they're both at the same time. But it feels like the train left already a year ago. I have respect for Georges-Louis Boucher. We all know how it works. Between two positions, he will always choose the most cleavage. It sometimes gives anything, like on the Covid Safe Ticket, but it happens that here, by chance, he's right. He's right because I think we're going into the wall, and I'm worried about it. I am not reassured about the issue of supply. Your 4.5 GW reported by CRM auctions must replace the 6 GW that nuclear has us abandon. In this 4.5 GW, you have two gas-fired power plants that do not yet exist. For one of them, there is no permit. The additional auction of 2024 is expected. It's still a big cat in a big bag, and this, in a decade where it's impossible for our electricity needs to drop. Meanwhile, you decided to electrify all the company cars. Then there's the question of carbon. Estimates differ. There are between 13 and 40 million tonnes of CO2 over a decade. I know what the minister will answer. She will say it's not a big deal because it's all accounted for in the ETS mechanism. I always have trouble with this argument because we can take it in every direction. Yes, yes, the Belgian gas plants will produce CO2 which will be bought somewhere in a mechanism by more virtuous devices elsewhere, but it is as if I were telling you that the Belgian offshore wind turbines of which we are so proud – and we are right – were going to make it possible to buy back the fact that Poles still have coal-fired power plants. That's not right! You can take it any way you like. These CO2 emissions, you can lock them in an Excel spreadsheet of ETS accounting, they will mostly fly into the atmosphere in a rough way and they will stay there for a while. The assessment of this Vivaldi will soon prove to be a polluter's balance sheet with a huge carbon balance. It's pretty amazing! I feel like we've gone in a really crazy direction and I don't see how you can stop. Obviously, the decision is made. I don't know yet how the president of the MR will eat his hat or eventually turn it into a government business. But it will necessarily be one or the other. It is clear that, technically, it is no longer possible to keep these two plants open. I think we've all gone to make a serious mistake, the effects of which will begin to be felt gradually from 2022, but especially from the winter of 2025. I am therefore not reassured by your answers, even though I thank you for providing them to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u25	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Bert Wollants and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Bert Wollants, Mr Reccino Van Lommel and Mr François De Smet and the Prime Minister's reply, - heard Mr Alexander De Croo's reply at the plenary session of 2 October 2020 on the calendar for extending two GW to nuclear power plants; - heard the Prime Minister's reply at the plenary session of 19 November 2020 on the emergency scenario and government plans in this area; - having regard to the need to draw up a report at the end of November 2021 on the impact of the capacity auction and the associated key exit on security of supply and the impact on electricity prices; - having regard to the retro-planning made in September 2020 and included in the memorandum proposed by the Minister of Energy to the core of 3 December 2021 differs from the statement given by the Prime Minister, while both refer to the same retro-planning; - having regard to the Prime Minister's intention to consult with the core operator and the fact that it sent a letter to the Prime Minister on 7 December to indicate that within the current legal framework it is not possible to carry out the extension in good time; asks the government - start negotiations with Engie to identify the legal changes necessary to respect as much as possible the desired timing for the renewal of the two nuclear power plants; - report to the Chamber of Representatives before the end of the year on the steps taken by the Minister of Energy in the last 12 months to allow the extension of two GW nuclear power plants; - to make a full timeline available to the Chamber of Representatives before the end of the year on the preparation of retroplanning and on the dates at which it was updated on the basis of new information." A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr. Bert Wollants and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Bert Wollants, Reccino Van Lommel and François De Smet and the Prime Minister's response, - having heard Mr. Alexander De Croo's reply during the plenary session on 2 October 2020 on the timetable for the extension of nuclear power plants for the production of 2 GW; - having heard the Prime Minister's response to the November 19, 2020 plenary session on the emergency scenario and government plans in this area; - in view of the fact that, at the end of November 2021, a report was to be drawn up on the effects of the auction on the capacity and exit of nuclear power on security of supply and the impact on electricity prices; - having regard to the retroplanning established in September 2020 and included in the note submitted by the Minister of Energy to the Council of Ministers of 3 December 2021 and given that this note differs from the explanation given by the Prime Minister, whereas both refer to the same retroplanning; - the intention of the Prime Minister to consult with the nuclear operator and the fact that on 7 December the latter sent him a letter indicating that it is not possible within the current legal framework to carry out this extension on time; asks the government - to start negotiations with Engie in order to verify what legal changes are necessary to comply as far as possible with the desired timetable for the extension of the two nuclear power plants;- to report before the end of the year to the House of Representatives on the steps the Minister of Energy has taken over the past 12 months to allow the extension of the production of 2 GW by nuclear power plants; - to make available to the House of Representatives, before the end of the year, a complete line of time on the preparation of retroplanning and the times at which this retroplanning was corrected on the basis of new information." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Bert Wollants, Mr Reccino Van Lommel and Mr François De Smet and the Prime Minister's reply, - having heard the interplay between Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the Prime Minister on the subject, the core exit; - having heard the Government's reply; - having regard to the letter from Engie Electrabel, - whereas calls should be started with the operator without delay, - whereas a complete key step involves compromising security of supply and affordability of energy; - whereas energy production should, as far as possible, remain within the territory of the country; - considering the urgency of taking a final decision, asks the government - without delay to initiate discussions with Engie Electrabel in the context of a lifetime extension of Objective 4 and Tihange 3; - implement the necessary legislative changes with a view to shortening procedures; - Minister for Energy Tinne Van der Straeten off the file." A second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Bert Wollants, Reccino Van Lommel and François De Smet and the Prime Minister's response, - having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel addressed to the Prime Minister concerning the release of nuclear power; - having heard the Government's response; - having regard to the letter sent by Engie Electrabel; - Whereas discussions with the operator should be initiated without delay; - Whereas a complete exit from nuclear power means that security of supply and financial accessibility of energy will be threatened; Whereas energy production should, as far as possible, remain national; - Whereas it is urgent to take a final decision; asks the government - to engage without delay in discussions with Engie Electrabel as part of an extension of the lifespan of Doel 4 and Tihange 3; - to make the necessary legislative amendments with a view to shortening the procedures; - to release the Minister of Energy, Mrs Tinne Van der Straeten, from the file." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. A simple motion was tabled by Mmes Maggie De Block et Melissa Depraetere et MM. Wouter De Vriendt, Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf et Servais Verherstraeten . The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u26	Madam President, I would like to ask the urgency of the simple motion that has been tabled and signed by my fellow Members of the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u27	The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u28	At the request of the sponsors, I propose that you refer the following motion for a resolution to the Committee on Energy, the Environment and the Climate: - the motion for a resolution (MM. Daniel Senesael and Malik Ben Achour, Ms Mélissa Hanus, MM. Patrick Prévot and Hervé Rigot, Laurence Zanchetta, Christophe Lacroix, Leslie Leoni, Kris Verduyckt and Karin Jiroflée) to combat pollution and health risks associated with exposure to PFAS in food packaging, No 2260/1. At the request of the authors, I propose that the following motion for a resolution be sent to the Committee on Energy, the Environment, and Climate: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Daniel Senesael and Mr Malik Ben Accour, Mrs Mélissa Hanus, Mr Patrick Prévot and Mr Hervé Rigot, Mrs Laurence Zanchetta, Mr Christophe Lacroix, Mrs Leslie Leoni, Mr Kris Verduyckt and Mrs Karin Jiroflée) on the prevention of pollution by PFAS in food packaging and the health risks arising from exposure to it, No. 2260/1. This motion for a resolution had previously been referred to the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities. This motion for a resolution was previously sent to the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities. No observation? (No) That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] This is how it is done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u29	The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of the bill on various tax provisions, No. 2351/1. The Government asked for an urgent procedure pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on various tax provisions, No. 2351/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u30	Madam President, the Minister of the Interior asks you to excuse her for her absence and calls for urgency on Bill No. 2351. This bill contains various amending provisions relating to income taxes, the Code of Miscellaneous Duties and Taxes, the Code of Succession Fees, registration, mortgage and registry fees, tax procedure and collection. In view of the fact that many of the provisions of this bill must be published in the Belgian Monitor before the end of the year in order to be valid, we call for urgency for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u31	We are not going to support the urgency, firstly because, despite all the promises made last time, this government wants to go a long way before Christmas. This makes an orderly way of working impossible. However, that is not the only reason. In this particular draft law, the Council of State has so many legislative comments that it would be irresponsible to push it through. After all, within a short time one would need a repair law. The comments go from series of articles that give incorrect legal histories to the changes that other laws have already introduced to whole articles that need to be deleted because they are redundant as they have already been amended by other laws. If serious work is to be done, we must take the necessary time to do so. Let us not push this through, as this government does with far too many draft laws.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u32	Madam President, in examining his policy letter 2022, I asked Prime Minister De Croo if the government would not even re-interpret the word of urgency in its true meaning. He replied that he understood that. Next week we will have a whole series of urgent requests again and I will read out the Prime Minister's text. The concept he expressed at the time is not clear. We have four requests for urgency for draft legislation, and perhaps the word 'emergency' can only be applied to one of the four. In the other three there is no reason to believe that there is even some urgency. I would like to draw attention to the hypocrisy which the majority expresses when referring to the burden on staff, which is suddenly no longer an argument when it makes totally absurd requests for urgency, which also puts extra pressure on the staff of our house. The government must take the words of Prime Minister De Croo seriously, in particular that an urgency is finally being considered by the government as a matter of urgency again. By the way, if you need so many real urgencys, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that actually proves the incompetence of the government, because urgency is exceptional circumstances. Are there any draft laws on which urgent procedure is not requested? I can tell you this in advance. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, today we as a minority have nothing to say. You can blindly say yes to any question from the government, as you do every week. But be aware that the Rules of Procedure offer opportunities to ensure that false urgency is not dealt with more quickly than draft laws without urgency, and we shall use them as from today. I hope that at some point you will show the decency to restore urgency in its true sense, if only out of respect for the staff of our house.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u33	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u34	The government also called for urgency in accordance with rule 51 of the Regulations when the bill amending the November 4, 2020 law on various social measures following the VOCID-19 pandemic, No. 2358/1 was introduced. The Government has also requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the Law of 4 November 2020 on various social measures under the COOVID-19 pandemic, No. 2358/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u35	Madam President, please excuse me, but I have not been informed of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u36	There are several pieces of legislation on which the government is pressing for urgency. The first was the text on tax provisions. The second is the pandemic and social measures project No. 2358.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u37	The government is asking for urgency on this bill, but my colleagues are so overwhelmed that they have not had the opportunity to inform me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u38	We will therefore vote on this urgent justification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u39	Madam President, I would like to give urgency to implement social measures. But I don't know what this is about. If there's an emergency request, you need a motivation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u40	That's right. I think your group leader has already heard the motivations yesterday, but I am waiting to see if Mrs Schlitz finds any further arguments. Then I'll come back to you, Mr. Boukili.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u41	Madam President, the reasons have not convinced me to support the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u42	Madam President, fortunately there is the clean French proverb 'le ridicule ne tue pas', otherwise it would be full of corpses here. This is quite embarrassing. The design is urgent because it is urgent. I fear that the self-respect of the members of the majority has now sunk quite deeply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u43	Madam President, of course, I am not convinced by the motivation. I read the title: Bill on social measures covid. So I think that in the current situation, and with all the problems that our fellow citizens face during this crisis, it is something urgent to deal with as such. I will therefore grant the urgency. But frankly, it's never before seen, a request for an emergency without motivation. I grant urgency on the basis of the title of this project, out of respect for our fellow citizens in the current framework, but I hope that this situation will not happen again in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u44	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u45	The Government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law approving the Agreement amending the Agreement on the Provision and Operation of Air Traffic Facilities and Services by EUROCONTROL was tabled at the Maastricht Regional Control Centre, signed on 25 November 1986 (Maastricht Agreement), done at Brussels on 17 December 2020, No. 2359/1. The Government also requested the urgency statement pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law approving the Agreement amending the Agreement on the posting and operation of air traffic equipment and services by EUROCONTROL at the Maastricht Air Traffic Control Centre, signed on 25 November 1986 (Maastricht Agreement), done in Brussels on 17 December 2020, No. 2359/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u46	I await the motivations of my colleagues on urgent requests.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u47	All right. That said, the reasons were explained yesterday in the Conference of Presidents, which does not prevent the motivation to be given in plenary session. So I leave the fellow judges behind.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u48	Madam President, we are opposed to this request for urgency. I'm still worried about the precedent we've just seen with a little smile. Indeed, if now, as will be the case for three out of four pieces of legislation tabled by the government, it is enough simply to ask for urgency, without giving any justification for this urgency, let us revise the Rules. Honestly, this kind of process is amazing. One can accept that this happens once, but if it is used in the majority of cases, it is not respectful of the majority groups who are led to vote, even if there is no great mystery as to the outcome of their vote, nor of the minority groups who, when they wish to have a constructive approach, cannot act in this direction because they do not know the government's motivation. This type of process is limited in terms of respect for parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u49	I understand you, Mr. Prévot. However, the reasons for the emergency requests were explained to all the group leaders yesterday in the preparation of this session. So, in each group, at least one person knows the motivations. In so doing, if the plenary meeting is prepared, it should know how to position itself. However, I recognize that, formally, motivation should be given in plenary for every request for urgency from the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u50	Madam Chair, this is the only excuse since in the co-empt period, it was decided that the emergency decision should be made by the group leaders. In any case, the group leaders heard from the Conference of Presidents yesterday about the motivations. This is not enough, but it was. As group leaders, we had the justifications yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u51	Madam President, I do not want to add any more, but we cannot accept that justification. I do not sit in the Conference of Presidents because there are not enough of us, but I am a parliamentarian like the others, and I have the right, in plenary, to know the motivations that the government proposes, as well as all the people who are in the groups but not group leaders. The Conference of Presidents should not end up replacing Parliament. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u52	Indeed, the Conference of Presidents will never replace Parliament, Mr De Smet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u53	Madam President, the motivation has indeed already been given in the Conference of Presidents, but it is a pity that the motivation is not in the directory of the State Secretary present. That can always happen. That doesn't involve any evil intent. I propose that the motivation be sought from colleagues and that we suspend until we receive the motivation here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u54	Madam President, I would just like to make it clear that it is not the Secretary of State who is at issue here. We point out the government's lack of seriousness that does not convey the motivations and calls for urgency. If it is urgent, that it give the necessary importance to this text, with its motivations so that Members can know what is being discussed in plenary. It is therefore not a question of the Secretary of State. She, she, came to defend the text but the government did not give her the reasons. It is the government that is being called into question here. He called for urgency when he was not even able to motivate her in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u55	If we can close this debate, I think the motivations have remained between the Sixteen and here. In any case, yesterday they were good here. They should have come to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u56	Madam President, I will also continue to ask for the floor. There are devices connected to the outside world. (Mr De Roover points to a smartphone) One can leave the Halfround in this way digitally. This is also a device that can be contacted by the government. (Mr De Roover points to a laptop) Perhaps the system is overloaded? We have been working here for minutes, but the government is so amateuristic that we are not able to send an e-mail, an app or a message. It's 10:30. Apparently, no one in the government is available anymore. I hope that there will be no crisis, because it will not be until tomorrow. This is unlikely. At 10 minutes time you can not deliver text via mail or Whatsapp. What a pathetic business. I will continue to talk, Mr De Vriendt, so that you do not have to ask for suspension. How come this doesn't come in? It is said here that yesterday we heard what the motivation is. There are group chairmen of the majority here. If you do know, why haven't you told the Secretary of State? Where's the lyrics? How simple is it all? This is real amateurism. We asked earlier that the non-profit organisations who did not fill out their papers should not pay EUR 500, but they are more professional in their operation than this majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you close this incident here. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u58	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. I also propose that you take into account and refer to the committee responsible: the bill (Ms. Eliane Tillieux) amending the Act of 4 July 1989 on the limitation and control of election expenses incurred for the election of the House of Representatives, as well as on the financing and open accounting of political parties, No. 2376/1. I would also suggest that you consider and send it to the committee responsible: the legislative proposal (Mrs Eliane Tillieux) amending the law of 4 July 1989 on the limitation and control of electoral expenditure for the elections of the Chamber of Representatives, the financing and the open accounting of the political parties, No. 2376/1. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u59	The urgency is requested for the legislative proposal No. 2374/1 by Mrs Gitta Vanpeborgh and his associates, on doctors-specialists in training and doctors in training.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u60	Madam President, the urgency is being asked for the extension of the National Joint Committee on Medicine and Hospitals. It's very specific about the doctors in training. During the past year and a half, there has been a lot of work on this. It is intended that the doctors in training should be included in that national joint committee. In view of the urgency of this matter, urgent procedure is required. An additional article extends the period during which doctors perform clinical activities in training. That's important, considering the fourth covid wave. That is why urgency is being asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u61	Madam President, we fully support this request for urgency. This shows once again that we are not blindly saying yes or no. However, I would like to draw attention to the background to the proposal, which is now being called for as a matter of urgency. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has, in my view, understood the message I just made. When something is really urgent, then there are means to deal with it quickly. I have been in contact with Minister Vandenbroucke's office, in the sense that we are constructive. In view of the urgency, for which good arguments have been put forward, we will support the request for urgency. I am very pleased that in an agreement between the majority and the opposition, a quick way can be found. This shows that we can indeed work in a decent way. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I invite you to make greater use of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u62	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u63	There is also an urgent need for Bill No. 2376/1 amending the Act of 4 July 1989 on the limitation and control of election expenses incurred for the election of the House of Representatives, as well as for the financing and open accounting of political parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u64	Madam Speaker, the Rules of the House being what they are, the powers of the Speaker of this House being what they are, I would like to ask for urgency for the proposal of which you are the author, concerning the financing of political parties. This is a subject on which our assembly has dealt on several occasions. I believe that several political groups of both the majority and the opposition are seeking help. The file is here and we can move on. I ask for the urgency of this proposal, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u65	We will certainly support the urgency. I welcome the progressive understanding, because we have asked for urgency for a similar proposal, but it was voted away by the majority who are now asking for urgency. I'm glad they're offering a second chance and now they're working on it urgently. We therefore support the request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u66	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u67	Madam Chair, I would be interested if you could clarify what emergencies have been granted to the government. There were four texts and you closed the debate early in view of the discomfort in which the majority was immersed. I have not heard any mention of Bill No. 2366, which appeared by miracle just five minutes ago on the House's website. Madam Chair, I was interested in being clear about what has benefited from the government's urgency in light of the strong motivations that have been shared.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u68	The three texts for which the government requested urgent action are Nos. 2351, 2358 and 2359. We have now moved on to the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u69	However, in the Conference of Presidents, to which you have often referred, it was shared that urgency would also be required for text No. 2366. I do note that this has not finally been the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u70	Exactly. Mrs. Fonck was there. The government has, on its own, withdrawn this request for urgency. There were only three requests in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u71	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 202/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Steven Creyelman; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Michaël Freilich; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Jean-Marc Delizée. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 202/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Steven Creyelman; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Michael Freilich; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Jean-Marc Delizée. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u72	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u73	Yes 79 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u74	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 203/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Bert Wollants; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Jean-Marc Delizée, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gilles Vanden Burre and Servais Verherstraeten. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 203/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Bert Wollants; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Jean-Marc Delizée, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u75	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u76	Yes 79 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 138 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u77	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u78	Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u79	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u80	Yes 86 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 49 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u81	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u82	Yes 107 Yes No. [[10]] No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u83	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u84	Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u85	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u86	Yes [[120]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u87	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u88	Yes 117 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u89	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u90	Yes 79 Yes No. [[37]] No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u91	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u92	Yes 135 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. The proposed revision of Constitution No. 1629/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal for a revision of the Constitution No. 1629/1 was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u93	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. It is proposed to start the plenary meeting in the morning. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. It is proposed that the plenary be opened in the morning. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this proposal. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip146x.u94	Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 16 December 2021 at 10 a.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, December 16, 2021 at 10 a.m.
