ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u1	Minister, the corona crisis has hit the hospitality industry hard. During the first lockdown, restaurants had to close the doors for three months. Unfortunately it didn't stop there, because since mid-October they have been closed again. On November 26, several newspapers read that they would have to pay almost the full amount of copyright to Unisono, although they couldn't play music for five months. To support the catering industry, we adopted a hotel and catering resolution in the Chamber on 11 June 2020. One of the requests in the resolution was to examine with Unisono how the annual fee could be adjusted for the period during which the cases in question were closed. The problem also arises in other sectors, such as contact professions, fitness shops and car companies. They have the same problem. Mr. Secretary, has the government gone into consultation with Unisono? If so, what was the conclusion of this consultation? If not, when will you talk to them? Will it commit itself to implementing this point of the resolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u2	Minister, last year the catering industry had to close its doors for a very long time, and that is still the case. When I hear the government's communication, it's gonna take a while. Unisono has decided to grant these restaurants a solidarity discount of only one month on the annual fee. They claim to have an understanding for the operators, but they also say that the authors and musicians are very badly affected. Mr Minister, that is actually the reverse world, especially since last year we adopted a resolution asking the government to examine with the copyright companies how annual fees could be adjusted, specifically for the duration of the closure of the companies concerned. It is particularly important to note that the Catering Federations have recently called on their members to terminate the contracts in good time so that the fees after New Year would cease to apply. Minister, have you in the meantime had discussions with Unisono and the various stakeholders such as Sabam on the reduction of the annual flat rate? What was the result? If nothing has happened yet, when will we discuss it? Will the government provide compensation in this respect for the catering operators? What other initiatives did you take in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u3	Madam President, Mrs Houtmeyers and Mr Van Lommel, thank you for your questions, but my answer will be very brief. The answer to these questions falls within the competence of Minister Dermagne, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economic Affairs. I have heard from him that there was a meeting with Unisono on 3 December, which dealt with this issue. I will look at what solutions are possible, but you must address your questions to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u4	Minister, this may indeed be Minister Dermagne's competence, but we discussed this in October during the debate on the catering industry. The proposal for a resolution on catering was also discussed in this committee. Starting this week, the invoices for 2021 will also go out and the catering and contact professions will therefore receive a very unpleasant surprise in their mailbox. I am convinced that this will lead to a great deal of frustration. We must ensure that these people are given security and know where they stand. They already have so much uncertainty and no perspective. We must therefore be absolutely clear about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u5	Minister, I find it sad. I wonder who I still have to ask in the long run. If I ask a written question, there will be constant ping-pong between ministers, after which the question ends up again with the initial minister, and if I ask questions in this committee, it is said that it is the competence of another minister. I'm really sorry about that. I have warned so many times before, with so many ministers involved in the economy. You are the one who, after the second lockdown in this committee, explained the hospitality measures taken by the government at that time. If we are now trying to ask you questions or to talk about the catering industry, you say that we should address your colleague, Mr Dermagne. Ú is Minister of Middle Classes and SMEs and I don't think it's normal for me to be sent from the cabinet to the wall. The catering companies want perspective. The water is on their lips and they do not benefit from the back and forth games that are being played in Parliament. We must work in an efficient way and not in the way we have done here today. I am very disappointed in your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u6	Perhaps this could be considered in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs with a view to efficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u7	Mr Minister, my question about the outbreak of the avian influenza virus has been submitted some time ago. Can you give me a final update on this? Is there any consultation with the poultry farmers' sector on the approach and measures, in the light of the problems that have been encountered in the past with the low pathogenic H3 bird flu virus? Several companies then suffered serious losses that could not be compensated because they had already cleared out preventively before the question had been cleared up. So we are wondering whether there is sufficient consultation with the sector so that they know what can and should be done? This H5 virus distinguishes highly pathogenic strains from low pathogenic strains. Is this distinction made in the case of an outbreak in a poultry holding?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u8	Madam President, Mrs Gijbels, the aim of the legislation on avian influenza is to combat all highly pathogenic and low pathogenic avian influenza viruses of types H5 and H7. All poultry holdings which are cleared under this regulation by the BFSA are entitled to compensation from the Sanitary Fund. The principle of compensation applies not only to infected holdings but also to poultry holdings in their immediate vicinity or which have had a risky contact with the infected holding and whose animals are therefore killed as a precautionary measure. It is important that the poultry farmer concerned has complied closely with the legal obligations on his poultry holding. I am thinking primarily of the timely notification of a suspicion of infection with the disease. The compensation paid by the fund shall constitute a fair replacement value for the animals killed. In addition, the BFSA is responsible for the operational costs of the disposal and cleaning and disinfection of an infected farm. The sector is closely involved in the compensation mechanism for poultry. After all, the Sanitary Fund is being fed up with contributions from the whole poultry chain. The sector therefore has its say in drawing up the compensation tables used by the fund to determine the exact value of the animals killed on the basis of the poultry species and the type and age of the animals. As Minister of Agriculture, I am particularly concerned that the BFSA and the S4 department of the FPS Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment, which manages the fund, should make the necessary efforts to ensure that the compensation for the removal of a poultry holding is paid quickly to the poultry farmer concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u9	Minister, I do trust that there will be good consultation with the sector. That is the most important thing, that they are all along with the conditions. This way we avoid maximum conditions as we experienced in the previous outbreak of avian influenza.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u10	This question remains topical, even though it was tabled a little longer ago. It concerns the decisions of the Consultation Committee at the end of November 2020. The self-employed still have very little or no perspective at present. Contact professionals will also have to wait a while before they can get back to work. More information on this may follow on 22 January 2021. It has often cost entrepreneurs blood, sweat and tears to build up their business and to engage in activities over the past few months. Surviving in these times is therefore not easy at all; they really are with the hands in the hair. In many cases, alternatives are not obvious either. For example, a restaurant can offer takeaway meals, a shop can open a web shop, but practitioners of a contact profession just sit at home and can't do much other than wait and see. People often talk about the mental well-being of our students. Entrepreneurs are often forgotten in this respect. The situation also causes a dent in their mental well-being. Moreover, it is not just about the entrepreneur, because behind every case there is also a family. For example, bankruptcy of a barber shop can be a tragedy for the whole family. So we are talking not only about financial dramas, but also about personal dramas. How will you offer a perspective to all our self-employed and entrepreneurs, especially those who currently have to keep their doors closed so that they too can see a way out of the crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u11	Mrs Houtmeyers, your question remains topical, even though you have already submitted it at the end of November. Last Friday, the Consultative Committee, led by our Prime Minister, considered that it was far too early to relax the decision to close certain cases in October and November. Only the driving schools may resume activities. In response to my request for scientific evidence in support of the decisions, the Corona Commissioner made a study available and on this basis it was recommended to wait for an improvement in the epidemiological situation and an improvement in the protocols before contact professionals can resume their activities. The contact professions are considered to be professions with an average to high risk of contagion. The study was communicated to the sectors at my request in order to be fully transparent. The Consultation Committee of Friday 8 January has adopted a rendezvous clause for Friday 22 January. In addition, it confirmed that non-medical contact professions belong to the first sectors whose work may be resumed, if the epidemiological situation so permits. I am aware that this does not offer an exact perspective, but it is an indication. Other cases may not be reopened, forced or in fact. I am thinking in particular of catering, events, travel agencies, solar and wellness centres and gyms. This also applies to certain recreational activities. I am very aware of the very difficult situation for everyone who has to close his case. The perspective I can give them is the re-evaluation of the situation by the Consultation Committee on 22 January and the guarantee that I will defend their interests on the basis of safe sanitary protocols. I realize that the self-employed want to get back to work and earn their living. In any case, those self-employed, who are often employers, are entitled, in view of the situation, to public support for this difficult period. Since November, the right to bridge my demand has been doubled for all self-employed workers who had to close down. This measure will remain in place in January. I can already tell you that a preliminary draft law is being drawn up to extend this doubling in February for those who would not be able to resume their activities. Within my powers, I have also taken some other measures, namely the reduction and exemption from the payment of social contributions for self-employed persons by 2020 and the possibility of applying for a pay-off plan for the social contributions for which a delay has been requested and which will be payable in 2021, while maintaining reimbursement of health care. In addition to the double crisis bridging right, a new regime for the crisis bridging law entered into force on 1 January 2021. This new scheme introduces a second pillar for each self-employed person with a turnover loss of at least 40%, whether or not it is subject to a restrictive measure by the State. I also granted additional delay for the payment of the company contributions for 2020. If they are in a desperate situation, the self-employed must never hesitate to ask for help. Both the social insurance funds as the first contact point and the RSVZ have made every effort since the beginning of the crisis to listen to the self-employed and to help them get through this particularly difficult period. It is in this context that the RSVZ has opened a call centre that is accessible on the number 0800/12018 to answer all questions of the self-employed. Another issue, in particular 0800/20118, is intended for those who are experiencing psychological difficulties, given the enormous length of time they face. Additional measures will also be taken to help the self-employed overcome their mental despair. The self-employed affected by the COVID-19 crisis and the sanitary measures will be able to benefit from eight fully reimbursed sessions with certain psychologists. A budget of EUR 11 million was made available for this purpose. The practical arrangements for these measures are being worked out in cooperation with my colleague Frank Vandenbroucke, Minister for Health. In order to support workers and their employers, temporary corona unemployment has been extended and the Minister of Finance has negotiated with the sector to extend the deadline for the self-employed to apply for a postponement of their professional credit, with the total delay of up to nine months. There was also negotiations on postponement between the Minister for Economic Affairs and the insurance sector. The core of 8 January 2021 agreed to extend the doubling of the bridging right by February 2021. The preliminary draft law will be submitted to the Council of Ministers on Friday 15 January 2021. This is new information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. That you can't offer a lot of perspective, I understand. It's not very encouraging, though. I also understand that you are looking for solutions to give the self-employed a little courage. It is also necessary that you continue to defend their interests. Less encouraging are the rumors that the double bridging right will be adjusted and the self-employed would lose this if, for example, they would offer take-away meals or organise a click & collect. That lives very strongly at the moment, both at restaurants and at barbers. They see it as a loss and are discouraged again. After all, they see the abolition of the right of bridging as a punishment for the creativity they showed to remain active. With regard to the exemption up to nine months from capital repayments, we also see that a very serious problem will arise here if this is limited to nine months. After all, it seems that we are not yet out of this crisis. It is a good measure, but the government must think about extending it to, for example, the third quarter. Otherwise, a lot of companies will not get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u13	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale Point 55012277 Mr Prévot's 55012279c and Mr 55012280c lapsed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u14	Madam President, Minister, I am sure you will remember the debates we had a while ago on the policy statement and the policy papers. I talked about the professional federations several times. You then promised to contact as many professional federations as possible if they specifically requested. I have repeatedly stressed the need to identify the specific needs of the different sectors. Not every federation finds its own way to Brussels. What federations have you been talking to in the last few months? Did you take the initiative or did you do so at the request of the federations? What specific measures could have been developed in addition to the general measures to which you refer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u15	Mr President, Mr Van Lommel, since my arrival, my colleagues and I have received many federations. On my initiative, I met the interprofessional federations that sit on the Supreme Council for the Self-employed and the SME. There are UNIZO, the NSZ, the UCM and the Unplib. I also received the recognised professional federations within the HRZKMO at their request. It concerns in particular all federations active in the welfare sector and the care of individuals. I give some examples, but the list is not complete: the Union Professionelle des Agences de Voyage (UPAV) and its Flemish counterpart, the Union Nationale des Esthéticien(ne)s de Belgique, the Association of Belgian Foornijders, the Union of Belgian Hairdressers, the Defence of Belgian Forovisers, Federia or the Federation of Real Estate Real Estate Agents, the CIB, the Alliance of Belgian Event Federations and the financial intermediaries of Fedafin. In addition, there are non-approved associations, such as the Belgian Sauna Association or the Belgian Tattoos Association. I also received Comeos, FEBEV and all the catering federations of the country. I have received many of these federations in the context of the management of the sanitary crisis. Their questions have, of course, inspired my support measures, such as the right of bridging and their adaptation. For example, the bridging right 2021 will be based on the loss of turnover and not just on a mandatory closure, which will help the liberal professions in particular. As I have already said, these meetings also justify my current initiatives to take targeted measures within the framework of the winter plan. They also inspire other designs, which are currently being prepared.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u16	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I am particularly pleased that you have received many of these federations. That was certainly a necessity. I think it is particularly important to know what is going on in the federations, which represent a great many companies in this country. As you know, I am not in favour of barracks and many different small measures, but I would nevertheless recommend that, after what you have heard, in addition to the general measures, such as adjusting the right of bridging, we should perhaps also take targeted measures to meet some federations. They don't have to cost a lot of money. I will certainly follow up on this issue further, Minister. Stay open to questions and conversations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u17	Mr President, Minister, the Consultative Committee recently decided, for practical and economic reasons, to reopen the driving schools. I will not judge whether this is a good decision or a bad one, and I will leave it in the middle today. I can say that a lot of people frowned the eyebrows. I am talking about those who are in contact, who at that time wonder why it is possible to sit in a school car with two to four people, when they cannot carry out their activities under special measures and in sterile conditions. In this question I link one to the other. Today, we are increasingly finding that a lot of hairdressing takes place behind closed doors, the circumstances of which are totally out of control. I wonder what objective parameters were used for reopening the driving schools, other than to ensure that the contact professions should remain closed for longer. Why, in other words, is one safer than another? What perspective can you give today to the practitioners of contact professions such as hairdressers? The sector has a great deal of understanding, but above all it requires perspective. How do you estimate the problems of hairdressers who exercise their activity behind closed doors, or even often on relocation? Were they acting against this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u18	Mr Van Lommel, for the objective parameters that allowed the re-opening of the driving schools, I would refer you, for the scientific part, to the Minister of Health, who is competent in this area and who is better placed to give you a detailed answer. From an economic point of view, the justification lies in the growing waiting times for driving training and examinations as well as the training for driving an aircraft. This has a detrimental effect on those who urgently need to obtain a driving licence or qualification for professional purposes. That's why those courses and exams were re-enabled. In order to know the sanitary conditions under which driving lessons are given, I refer to the protocols validated by the regional ministers responsible. I have already had the opportunity today to repeat the prospects for the non-medical contact professions. They will be part of the first activities that will benefit from relaxation as soon as the epidemiological situation so permits. Since 1 December 2020, the Economic Inspectorate has carried out a total of 3,190 checks on compliance with the corona measures by contact professions, such as hairdressing salons, tattooists and beauty institutes, which had to close down. For the time being, only two minutes were prepared for infringements of the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u19	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I understand your economic reasoning. The waiting times grew, driving licences had to be obtained or renewed. I can understand that. Nevertheless, the practitioners of contact professions feel rightly disadvantaged when they make the comparison and point to the safety and conditions in which the virus can be spread. I understand their point of view as well. You say that there have already been quite a lot of checks on the mandatory closure and respect for the corona rules. Two minutes have been written, you reported. It is my firmest conviction that the problem is far greater than we dare to suspect and that there are incredibly many hairdressings taking place behind closed doors. I would therefore advise you, Minister, to at least create a level playing field. After all, it is not fair for all hairdressers who have to close down and keep to the rules, that there are others who continue their activities secretly. You should look carefully at how to deal with this unfair situation. Two minutes, that is a very gross understatement of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u20	Minister, the government wants to encourage electronic payments. The government agreement shows that it is not intended to completely abolish cash payments. However, cash payments need to be drastically reduced by the end of the legislature. For example, the ceilings for non-contact payments would be increased further. Last week, however, we heard on the radio that especially small self-employed workers, for example benefactors and bakers, are once again in favour of cash payments. However, during the corona period they had asked not to pay with cash money but with ban contact. They probably want to avoid the costs associated with ban contact and get cash money in the cash register faster. Both trends, namely, on the one hand, the government that is increasingly committed to electronic payments and, on the other hand, the small self-employed who are in favour of more cash payments, are, of course, at odds. That's why I have the following questions. Do you have any idea of this tendency whereby the small self-employed wants to switch to more cash payments again? If so, do you have a view of the causes of this tendency? In order to gain a better view of the cause, the government might be able to organise a round-the-clock question with SMEs about their motivation to choose whether or not to pay cashless. Would you like to engage in such an investigation? Have you considered other initiatives to convince them of the benefits of electronic payments? Would you like to share your findings with us?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u21	Mrs Houtmeyers, I know that the majority of the self-employed want to be free in the choice of means of payment they offer to their customers. It is not a new trend, it is a legitimate attempt to reduce transaction costs and to have resources that can be used immediately. Some electronic means of payment may take a little longer before the payments end up in the trader's bank account. Each means of payment has its advantages and inconveniences. All recognised representative interprofessional organisations representing SMEs have already issued an opinion on the issue at HRZKMO on 20 October 2020. They are in favour of initiatives aimed at encouraging simpler and cheaper developments in electronic payment methods. They consider that there is a high potential for alternative payment methods for cash payments, which is still underutilised. Moreover, they remain attached to the freedom of choice of the means of payment offered and are therefore opposed to any standard which would oblige each undertaking to offer an electronic means of payment. On the basis of this opinion, I don't think I need to ask around. In particular, therefore, we must encourage the use of these means of payment by SMEs so that they can see their benefits. In 2019, the Price Observatory of the FPS Economy examined the market functioning of electronic payments in Belgium. The analysis of the Price Observatory does not cover cash payments and does not compare the costs of electronic means of payment in Belgium with the costs of accepting cash payments by traders. The observatory found that the different tariff formulas offered to traders are very difficult to compare and that they complicate the choice for companies. Moreover, there is a lack of transparency as regards the prices of the different intermediaries in the payment chain, in particular for the new means of payment that have appeared on the market. The initiatives to be taken to encourage the use by traders must therefore take account of these findings and promote transparency and comparability of supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u22	Minister, we will continue to monitor the evolution of the situation during the year. It is also very important that there should be clear communication about the different formulas, so that self-employed people can easily see what is the best formula for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u23	Minister, the Belgian pig sector is experiencing enormous difficulties, not only because of African swine fever, but also because of prices falling sharply as a result of corona. The sector is losing today and I am concerned about that. If our country obtains the AVP-free status, it is an important step to restore prospects for the sector. After all, it ensures that Belgian pigmeat can be offered not only on the European market but also in third countries. I have already asked questions about this to your predecessor, Mr Ducarme, who promised me that in the course of 2020 he would go to the federal government with a dossier to move forward. Minister, it is expected that after obtaining the AVP-free status, it will take a few months to actually export to third countries. What action will you take to restart exports as soon as possible? Which countries are you currently negotiating diplomatically to re-export Belgian pork? Are you currently consulting with the pig sector to prepare them for the new export opportunities? If so, how does the organisation proceed? Who are you talking to? It would be wise to evaluate the findings following the outbreak of African swine fever. What problems were there? How did they react to this? In the event of a repetition, we must be able to react quickly to avoid the biggest problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u24	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, on 27 October 2020, one year after the last virus circulation in wild boars, domestic swine have never been affected, Belgium has, through the BFSA, submitted a request to the European Commission to remove all restrictions on African swine fever or AVP. This corresponds to a request for a free statute at European level. An application was also submitted to the World Organisation for Animal Health, the OIE, to obtain disease-free status for all pigs. This means for pigs, wild boars and wild boars in captivity. These applications have been approved by both bodies, which are fully independent in their assessment of the Belgian dossier. We received a positive response from the European Commission on 20 November 2020. The OIE approval was received on 22 December 2020 for a free status valid from 1 October 2020. The adoption of our free status by the OIE will make it possible to restart negotiations with third countries which had imposed an embargo on Belgian pigmeat and which have not so far accepted the regularisation of Belgium for AVP. Unfortunately, the restoration of the AVP-free status is not automatically accompanied by the reopening of markets. Such negotiations can sometimes drag on for a long time. Over the past two years, the BFSA has not been idle and has already taken numerous initiatives to support the export of Belgian pork and derived products to other countries by reopening or preventing them from being closed down. These initiatives include transparent communication with the authorities of third countries on the evolution of the situation and the measures taken, participation in international seminars on African swine fever, participation in the Prince's Mission to Beijing in November 2019 and the organisation of various meetings with the authorities of third countries, including the Chinese and South Korean authorities. The BFSA also took part. Secondly, once the OIE has published the self-declaration of the ASF-free status, the BFSA has informed the embassies in third countries through Foreign Affairs, so that the necessary démarches could be launched. Before Christmas, the BFSA wrote to the most priority countries to formally request the lifting of the embargo. The priority countries were defined with the different stakeholders in a specific export task force, the ASF cell, which has been regularly meeting since the outbreak. It concerns China, Thailand, Australia, the Philippines, Ukraine, South Korea, Japan and Uruguay. The other third countries which have imposed an embargo will soon be specifically registered by the BFSA. Last week, I had a meeting with the Chinese ambassador. It discussed the lifting of the embargo in detail. The Ambassador stressed that despite the publication of the OIE's self-declaration, the resumption of exports will not take place immediately, as technical negotiations between the competent authorities of both countries are still needed. The Ambassador also cited important dossiers for China in other areas, the further treatment of which will have an impact on our market opening dossiers for beef and pork. I also took this opportunity to present the BFSA attaché who will soon be leaving for China to take care of our files there. The Chinese Ambassador welcomed this initiative and underlined the importance of direct contacts, which will also be useful in the negotiations for lifting the embargo. It is therefore not because the self-declaration was published on the OIE website and Belgium is free of AVP according to the international directive that third countries will automatically lift the embargo. Experience shows that such processes can be time-consuming and often accompanied by extensive questionnaires, inspection visits and negotiations. Regular consultations shall take place with, inter alia, the FEBEV and Fenavian sector federations, agricultural organisations and other stakeholders to identify the priority countries, exchange the latest information and undertake targeted démarches at different levels. Thirdly, the various stakeholders, including the various sector federations concerned, are informed about any change in the number of embargoes, the type of restrictions and changes in the situation regarding African swine fever in Belgium. This information can always be found on the website of the BFSA, in Dutch, French and English. On 13 January 2021, the BFSA will organise a high-level meeting with all stakeholders to prepare and pass on a joint message and to finalise and refine a global strategy to lift the embargo and re-enable exports of pigmeat. AVP is a virus disease that can affect both domestic and feral pigs. The fight against this disease is therefore a shared competence in our country. The federal government, in particular the BFSA, is responsible for the measures taken on pig farms and in the pig sector, as well as for European and international contacts. The Walloon Region organises the approach to wild boars. For the sake of the importance and impact of the disease, even if it only circulates in wild boars, and because pigs and wild boars can infect each other, the fight against it is organised in close and very good consultation between all the authorities, services and cabinets involved. In the light of the threat from Eastern Europe, where AVP has been circulating since 2014, this cooperation was already put on the verge of contamination in our country. This anticipation has certainly contributed to the rapid adoption of appropriate measures by all within their competence. The rapid use of all possible means also explains why the disease in our country does not have the same rapid spread that most of the other affected Member States are facing, and why the control of this disease has been so beneficial. This is therefore entirely due to the optimal preparation, operation and cooperation of the administrations concerned. I come to a fourth and final point. The overall strategy and the basic measures to combat AVP are laid down in European legislation. The approach in the field is the result of the practical implementation of this strategy by the federal and Walloon authorities. You will understand that, for the purposes of the division of powers, I do not have precise figures or precise operational facts on the effects of the measures taken by Wallonia on wild boars. These are the responsibility of my Walloon colleague. In addition, there is currently a judicial investigation to investigate the cause of the infection. It is therefore certainly not for me to launch such an epidemiological inquiry. That, Mr President, is a rather long but complete answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u25	A little too long but complete, indeed! Which justified a violation of the Rules for once!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. I appreciate you giving me a lot of information. Good moves have been made. We have a free AVP statute, and we have also received the approval of the OIE. You have made it quite clear that this is an important step, but that there are still many steps to be taken, and that confidence must be created in the third countries, so that they want to import our pigs again. I thank you for the necessary steps that have been taken. It is very important that there is good consultation and that there is good communication with the sector, because these are very difficult times. This already offers perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u27	Minister, Graydon's figures show that one in four of the West Flemish SMEs that were healthy before the crisis reached the danger zone. Last summer, according to UNIZO, that was one in five. We are going down rapidly, despite all the measures. The damage is getting bigger and bigger. The provinces of West Flanders and Limburg are the worst. You understand my concern about the situation of my fellow citizens and about the expansion of every entrepreneur in this country. This is an average across all sectors of the country, but it is not surprising that the figures in the catering, tourism and events sectors are even more severe. The fundamental problems lie in the lack of reserves, which have logically dried up after a crisis of almost a year. Despite the current government's policy, which ensures that the damage curve has not gone any further, so that we do not have to speak of one in three or even half, this trend has not yet been stopped. Minister, what will you do to stop the negative trend from Ostend to Riemst? What further action do you intend to take to restore the capacity of the companies, in line with our previous initiatives on the reconstruction reserve?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u28	Mrs Verhelst, allow me first of all to point out that at last Friday's Consultation Committee I actively advocated giving perspective to the self-employed. In this context, I have obtained an important decision: the Corona Commissioner will present on 22 January a calendar which will give a certain picture of the exit measures. I would like to make it clear here that the reopening of the various sectors will naturally depend on the figures relating to the sanitary crisis. However, I can already tell you that with this decision on 22 January we will be able to give an indication of which contact appeals will be priority on the calendar of reopenings. I'm thinking about beauty specialists, hairdressers, tattooists and so on. I am pleased, because I believe it is of paramount importance that the self-employed have a minimum of perspective. I now come to the support and re-launch measures for our economy. As you know, the federal government has taken many urgent measures since March to mitigate the socio-economic consequences of the crisis. In the short term, the government will continue to support sectors seriously affected by the COOVID-19 crisis. For that, I've identified three separate shutters. Firstly, several existing aid measures should be extended and, where appropriate, made more targeted. In particular, in the context of the extension of the aid measures, the double bridging right is applicable to all sectors which had to close until the end of January. On my initiative, the government is currently extending this double bridging right until the end of February. Secondly, I would like to introduce a winter plan in favour of the sectors and companies most affected, directly or indirectly, by the sanitary measures. The government is currently working out a number of measures in this area. Thirdly, it appears necessary to take specific measures on the solvency of undertakings. Such measures are absolutely necessary to avoid a wave of bankruptcies. Particular attention will have to be paid to medium-sized enterprises. For that, I work with the Minister of Finance, Vincent Van Peteghem. The extension of the measures taxshelter-COVID-19, the mobilisation of risk capital and the encouragement of capital increases are examples of measures currently being examined by the government. In addition to the urgent measures, we must also look at the long term. It will be vital to re-launch our businesses and boost their structural growth. So the government is working on an ambitious re-launch plan. Relance measures will have to focus specifically on our SMEs due to their challenges in terms of digitisation and accelerating the transition to a more sustainable economy. Finally, in your question about the provinces of West Flanders and Limburg in particular. In this respect, I would like to point out that, in addition to the federal measures, the other levels of policy can also develop regional, provincial and local measures. More than ever, our country needs an ambitious and innovative policy that offers prospects to our self-employed and our SMEs. They are the driving force behind economic activity in our country. I will therefore be on their side throughout my term of office.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which you may have had to repeat in part on several questions. For me, it is important to have an overall view of the concrete elements of the winter plan. I welcome the inclusion of items you mention, such as tax shelter and quasi-capital, as reserves need to be built up. When that is done, our Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs will certainly want to hear about it. You have also said that the Corona Commissioner is drawing up a calendar by 22 January 2021, which is a good thing, as there is therefore a perspective. With the committee, we are also looking forward to re-launching measures. We are happy to follow up on what you are doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u30	Minister, we have already had questions about the driving schools that could suddenly start over. I understand the economic justification for these driving schools, in view of the long waiting periods. Of course, people need a driver's license to start a new job, but mental well-being is also important. Now people are denied essential body care, which makes them feel less good in their skin. Maybe they're even gonna lock themselves up because they're less confident. Can we not think of the reopening of some partial activities, for example everything for which one does not need a hair dryer, so that there is no air displacement, because that is certainly something we must avoid. What prospects are there for these entrepreneurs, Minister? How do you try to offer them a perspective? In the meantime, I've heard there's going to be a calendar. I've learned from a number of labs that the test capacity is now large enough. Could this not be a means of partially reopening? One can then check weekly preventively to see if one can proceed. Now we must not test preventively unless there is a valid reason why one should be tested. Surely those preventive tests can't be carried out? Is there a particular order in which to reopen? That will probably end up in the calendar already mentioned. Perhaps a partial reopening could be considered? How do entrepreneurs fit into the current vaccination strategy? To what extent can certain sectors reboot, depending on the vaccination rate? How do you see the relationship between the vaccinated groups and the closed sectors? Can you comment on the order of reopening in the light of the increasing number of vaccinees? What guidance do you provide for the sectors in terms of rebooting? Are you in contact with the federations? I hear this is the case. How will you help each sector with the restart? What economic support measures are still under consideration, in addition to, for example, the updated bridging right for these sectors? I believe that we have already received an answer to that question. However, if you have any additions, I'd be happy to hear them. Minister, I would like to hear again the list of federations you just gave to Mr Van Lommel, or get a printout of it. It's interesting to know which federations you're talking to.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u31	Mr President, Mrs Verhelst, I will answer your various questions, starting with the latter. My associate can give you the list of federations at the meeting without any problem. I am in permanent contact with the professional federations representing the self-employed and SMEs. By way of illustration, I am meeting with the representative of the catering sector this week and the representative of an association representing the interests of the tattooists. On Friday I see Febetra, the federation of Belgian transporters, who are also affected by the crisis. At the end of last week I also met numerous federations of contact professions. At the end of this week, my cabinet will participate with them in a consultation meeting with the GEMS. I devote all my energy to the best possible understanding of the real impact of the sanitary measures on the many sectors of activity affected by the sanitary preventive measures taken by the Consultation Committee. I do so in order to provide them with the best possible guidance and to develop or propose appropriate support to my colleagues in the government. On this basis, I have proposed measures to my colleagues to increase the level of support for the most affected companies, where necessary. As I have already given to Mrs Houtmeyers, these measures are currently being negotiated with my colleagues. I have also given a great deal of information to Mrs Houtmeyers in the answer to that question. I also answered the question about the prospects on the basis of the assignments entrusted to the GEMS by the Consultation Committee of 8 January. On 22 January, we should be able to have a first calendar for the facilitations, with priority being given to the contact professions and perhaps other relaxations. Your question about the link between the exit stages and the vaccination is entirely relevant, but since I was not consulted in the development of the vaccination strategy, I am free to refer you to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u32	Mr. Secretary, perhaps a partial opening is possible? Some of the activities of certain professions are more essential than others, if we have to make a distinction there. I gave the example of the hairdresser. Cuts and colors may be on the agenda, but blowing might be less necessary. We look forward to the follow-up and are happy to help. At Mrs Reuter's request, we will also be listening in committee next week to the sectors, to the impact and where the greatest needs are. We still need to talk to Mrs Reuter about how best to deal with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u33	Minister, time goes by, but the restraint measures are still in place. Self-employed people and SMEs face the length of their stoppage. For many of them, the latest savings have already been exhausted and aid measures are barely enough to meet the many fixed costs. For others, even less fortunate, the peculiarities of their activity do not allow them to benefit from the aid, such as new or complementary self-employed persons who have not sufficiently contributed, false self-employed persons in the collaborative economy and self-employed persons mainly whose turnover declines below 40%. Since the current aid still does not allow some entrepreneurs, who have had to close down or not, to pay all their fixed costs, have you or will you consider other aid mechanisms? If so, which ones? Other avenues that could be used to reduce fixed costs include the reduction or suspension of the cost of copyrights, bank terminals, energy bills or insurance of all kinds. Where are you at at that level? Have you examined each of these four leads? Have you had any contact with the relevant actors? Have you done a monitoring to analyse and evaluate the effectiveness of the aids you are putting in place? If so, how do you justify the fact that these people still do not receive aid when they are indeed affected by the crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u34	Mr D'Amico, first of all with regard to the question of the additional measures that I am defending at the federal level, I would like to refer you to my previous replies, since they dealt with the same subject matter. Then I refer you to the more targeted provisions already mentioned and the need for the federal government to develop a plan for the most affected businesses. That's what I sometimes called the "hibernation" plan. However, he may also bear another name. I'm negotiating it with my government colleagues. So we can come back to that later. For the "copyrights and insurance" section, here too, let me direct you to the Minister of Economy Pierre-Yves Dermagne, who is competent for these issues and who has taken the initiatives with the insurance sector. Graydon, an organization with which I am in regular contact in order to be informed at best, has published interesting figures on the positive impact of federal and regional aid to help businesses cope with the pandemic crisis and containment measures. According to Graydon, these measures would have saved 96,000 companies in 2020. Of the 432,490 companies required to publish annual accounts, 287,413 were in a sound financial situation at the end of 2020, which – it must be conceded – was not like the others. In the absence of support, there would be only 191,328 of them. In other words, 66% of the companies were able to maintain themselves thanks to the aid. Otherwise, the rate would have been 44 per cent. In short, it appears that this aid has led to an increase of 22%. We strive to develop support measures as appropriate as possible, taking into account the means available and the constraints in which we operate. Personally, I would like to strengthen targeted aid to our SMEs. The federal government must take this initiative so that businesses that were healthy before the crisis can meet their fixed costs and costs and face credit problems. I can assure you that we continue to work on this. That, Mr D'Amico, is my answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answers. We will not hesitate to ask Minister Dermagne questions. But I think, or I did not pay attention, that there is still a small question to which you have not answered, about the young self-employed people who started their activity at the beginning of the year and who are not entitled to this aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u36	For the independent starters, there are aids. If they have been unable to continue their activity, they are entitled to bridge rights. There are certain conditions to be respected, but the starters have not been forgotten. I can assure you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u37	If I may, I will share your answer – which will be transcribed, I suppose – because I know independents, such as a beautician, who started their activity at the beginning of the year but who did not contribute enough. Their caisse tells them that they are not entitled to this bridge right. I will take note of what you told me and go to them with that answer. They're wronged.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u38	I am at your disposal to receive special cases. We receive a lot of requests and analyze them. But of course we need to know the specific situation of this person. It is clear that the conditions of the contribution conditions are included. Send me the contact details of this person and I'll analyze his file!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u39	I will. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u40	Mr President, Mr Minister, the decisions taken last Friday have not been in the direction of reopening the contact trades, to the great misfortune of the professionals concerned. However, according to the Union des Classes Moyennes (UCM), the health context allowed such a reopening. Indeed, according to the organisation representing the independents, the reopening of the shops and the Christmas celebrations did not provide an opportunity for a revival of the epidemic, despite the winter that has taken place. The population as a whole respects the health rules. But for this to continue, the restrictions imposed must remain understandable, logical and tenable. Moreover, as the UCM also points out, the reopening of hairdressing and aesthetic salons in France attracts a cross-border clientele, which can be dangerous in terms of health. Finally, according to the UCM, it is well known that Belgian independents in need give way to the pressing demands of their customers and exercise their profession outside of any possibility of control. Indeed, without being able to end the month with dignity, many independents have no choice but to continue working illegally. Mr Minister, since, according to the UCM and other independent defence organizations, the report provided by the government has not demonstrated the scientific existence of a risk to the contact trades, since a former liberal minister recently published on social networks that "our hairdressers, without the literature clearly justifying their closure, remain on the tile", since your party president has stated that nothing shows by A plus B that the contact professions are vectors of contamination, how do you justify the closure of all the professions concerned? How do you explain that there is not yet a thorough scientific study that analyses the sources of contamination in Belgium and the health risk caused by the opening of certain sectors? What do you say to the professionals in the sectors on the standstill who still feel that they do not have a clear perspective, as you promised before the Consultation Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u41	Mr D'Amico, I fully understand that the professional federations are impatient with the reopening of the contact trades and that a federation such as the UCM is going up to the front to call for their reopening on the occasion of the Consultation Committee on 8 January. I personally asked for scientific evidence to support all business closure decisions. In the case of contact occupations, a study was provided by GEMS. Its content is subject to debate. I have also requested that it be made public and have sent it personally to the sector's contacts to make them aware of it. It is true that in this study, it is not demonstrated by A+B that contact occupations are vectors of contamination. However, the study concludes that the state of knowledge about covid-19 contamination makes it possible to estimate that the contact professions are at risk of medium to high contamination. These are the terms found in this study. The risk of contamination in these activities is considered to be greater for the following reasons: physical proximity, conversation with the other person, contact time, inadequate use of the mouth mask, work in a closed place. The conclusion of this study is based on the precautionary principle. There is no real evidence of increased risk of contamination in contact occupations, but this study concludes by saying that, given the nature of these professions, it is recommended that these contact occupations be kept closed. I understand that such conclusions are difficult to audible to the professionals concerned. The Consultation Committee of 8 January, on the basis of this study, opted for extreme prudence, considering that while figures show a general downward trend, the positivity rate remained high as well as the overall occupancy rate of intensive care units. In addition, it was considered that it was still too early to assess the real impact of the return of travellers, past holidays, Christmas and New Year's Eve, and the reopening of schools. On the other hand, and that is what I asked for, it has been confirmed that non-medical contact jobs will belong to the first sectors that will be reopened when the epidemiological situation permits. In addition, consultations with these professions and GEMS were launched later this week. They're in progress. As requested, a timetable will be proposed for the next Codeco to take place on 22 January. These are the clearest prospects that could be obtained on 8 January this year. With regard to the lack of a thorough scientific study which analyses the sources of contamination in Belgium and the health risk caused by the opening of certain sectors, I refer you to my colleague the Minister of Public Health, who has the sources to answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u42	Minister, thank you for your response and for your responsiveness to this study. It was unfortunate, however, that it had taken ten months to have a serious study on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u43	Mr. Chair, Minister, I want to make it clear that I wrote this question when the health situation was better. Nevertheless, I believe that it remains relevant because the cultural sector cannot be confined indefinitely. The University of Halle (Germany), under the guidance of its university hospital, published last November a study on the organisation of events in closed spaces. The researchers conducted different experiments to determine the extent to which large mass events could be held in a closed space despite the epidemic. Thus, according to their results, the authors claim that the organization of such events is possible provided that certain health rules are respected. These include ensuring an excellent ventilation of the room, which is a determining factor in their opinion, respecting the safety distances and wearing of the mask, being able to sit and adjust the number of spectators allowed according to the progression of the infections. Observance of a strict protocol would therefore make it possible to drastically limit the risk of contamination if events were to be authorised. Minister, have you read this study, called "Restart-19", and intend to follow up on it? Would you be prepared to set up new experiments?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u44	Mr President, Mr D'Amico, I have read about this study carried out by the German University on the basis of an event carried out and measured. One of the main conclusions of this experiment is the importance of a good ventilation of places hosting events such as concerts. The dimensions, the importance of ventilation in enclosed areas and the assessment of air quality in these enclosed areas are the subject of ongoing work and consultation at the level of the Group of Experts on Crisis Strategy (GEMS), which advises the governments of the country at the scientific level. Concertations between the various sectors (horeca, events and contacts) are currently under way. As previously stated, with a view to preparing the Consultation Committee of 22 January, the Consultation Committee of 8 January entrusted GEMS with the task, in the light of epidemiological developments, of setting a timetable and formulating in the protocols additional health and safety conditions for the further opening of economic activity in order to ensure that it takes place in safe circumstances. The protocols for the organisation of cultural or sporting events will incorporate the state of scientific knowledge in order to allow for a resumption of activities in safe conditions. In order to validate the protocols that fall within my competence, such as that of events, I can tell you, honourable Member, that I will rely on the opinions of our scientists and, among other things, on this study by the University of Halle.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u45	Minister, thank you. We will be very vigilant about the continuation of these activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u46	Minister, many questions have already been answered in relation to the winter winter plan. So I won't reset them all anymore. However, one point that I am not quite clear about is the zombie companies, which you mentioned in your interview of 8 January in De Standaard. You want to filter it out. How do you intend to deal with this in concrete terms? Then I have a question that is more topical today than ever before. Certain measures have been in force for some time now, such as the double right of bridging. That arrangement would run until the end of January, but you are considering extending it until the end of February. I wonder how to proceed in concrete terms afterwards. Could you briefly explain the right of bridging? On the website of a number of social secretariats, such as Liantis and Partena, the three pillars are explained, but the amounts mentioned refer only to the right of bridging, so no longer to the double right of bridging. In addition, many sectors, such as the catering industry, are concerned that they may or may not partly lose their right to bridge the gap if they continue to engage in their takeaway activities. The same applies to hairdressers: if they sell their colour shampoos and other products, as they do now, they risk losing their right to bridge. The most important thing is that we now have a clear explanation of the right of bridging. How exactly does that work? A lot of self-employed people are waiting for that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u47	Mrs Houtmeyers, my answer is ready, but you have asked for special attention to be paid to the right of bridging. I'll give you my answer and I can give you further information later, if you like. Indeed, I believe that the companies that were healthy at the time of the adoption of the sanitary measures and which are still subject to restrictions today should be supported. I am thinking here of the catering industry, the event sector, cultural and recreational entrepreneurs, or of those who are not obliged to close down, but who see their turnover fall dramatically because of the indirect effects of the crisis: no tourism and working meetings for hotels or little planned travel for travel agencies. The winter plan that I mentioned in the press wants to provide strong measures for these companies to help them get through the economic winter in which they were deposited by the government's decisions to safeguard the health of the population. These companies deserve the support of the public authorities. Within my powers, the core of 8 January 2021 agreed to extend the double bridging right for the month of February for the self-employed whose activity has been completely discontinued. In the catering industry, the possibility to offer takeaway and maintain the double bridge right remains. If I may, I will add a small sentence in French. There was indeed a communication from the caisses, which said the opposite. I can assure you: it is because the law ended on 1 January, so the caisses have anticipated, but we are preparing for the extension in February. Kern has already agreed. The subject passes on Friday in the Council of Ministers and it will still have to be discussed in Parliament because the take-away and the click-and-collect have to be added. But we will have time to do so since the February bridge law will be paid in March. So everyone can be reassured because I have received a lot of concerns. Excuse me for adding this sentence in French, but I wanted to make it clear. I will also ensure that the self-employed will be able to benefit from an exemption, reduction or postponement of their social contributions in 2021. I would also like to reiterate that a payment plan can be requested for the social contributions for which a delay was requested in 2020 and which will therefore be payable in 2021. Other measures are currently under negotiation in the government. They must help businesses to cope with their fixed costs and burdens. As long as there is no agreement, however, I cannot say any more about it. It will be a team effort, because behind the companies in difficulty are jobs and players of the future economic recovery. It should therefore also be taken into account that we take targeted measures and avoid public money being injected into zombie companies. I would like to conclude the discussion as soon as possible. On 8 January, I repeat, the Consultative Committee asked the GEMS to draw up a calendar and to formulate additional sanitary measures and safety measures in the protocols so that economic activities could be restarted in safe conditions. The Catering Sector has already consulted the GEMS through its regional federations in order to determine how the protocols can be improved, particularly in the areas of ventilation and air quality. I can't give you an exact date. The Consultative Committee will meet on 22 January to review the state of the health situation. If possible, the first relaxations for 2021 will be decided there. Priority will be given to the contact professions and on that date we will be able to take note of the agenda or at least the conditions for reopening the catering industry. After the meeting of the Consultative Committee on 22 January, we should have a first part of the timeline for easing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. I think that the hospitality industry is very satisfied that the double right of bridging continues to exist. It is not quite clear to me whether this applies to the hairdressers, who also have a great deal of concern about this. The information is indeed on the website of some social secretariats, but on your website I found nothing about it. When the right of bridging was introduced, the information was clearly displayed on your website. For the future, it may be a good thing that you are the first to communicate about measures, not the social secretariats, especially now that false information is circulating. I had also asked how many self-employed people have applied for the double bridging right and whether there is a difference between the regions. I didn't get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u49	Mrs Houtmeyers, the same goes for hairdressers, of course. The right of bridging is there for all companies that had to close. The issue is on the agenda of the Council of Ministers next Friday and so I cannot yet put the information on my website, because there is no official decision yet. There is an agreement in the nuclear cabinet. Finally, my staff will send you the figures for November by e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u50	Minister, that is clear. Thank you very much for giving us the information. I would like to see the November figures in my mailbox.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u51	The trade agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom entered into force on 1 January. This obviously has an impact on our agricultural sector. For example, the agreement will not apply import tariffs to agricultural, food, ornamental and other products. That is good news in itself, but it still has an impact. For example, companies also have to deal with additional administration to get fresh products quickly in the UK. It is therefore very important that the BFSA and customs cooperate very well and can handle everything efficiently, so that those fresh products can get there in time. What is the current state of trade between Belgium and the United Kingdom? How do you evaluate the first few weeks? What do you think are the consequences of the Brexit Trade Agreement on our agricultural sector? More administration is needed to get the fresh products in the UK. How's this going right now? How are the checks going? How can the procedures and cooperation of companies with the BFSA be dealt with even more efficiently? What specific measures can still be taken to minimise the administrative burden for our entrepreneurs at present?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u52	Mrs Dierick, the answer to your first question is not within my competence, but within that of the Foreign Trade Minister. In reply to your second question, I can say that the impact of the Brexit on the agricultural sector is not yet visible. The change in the trading system occurred just after a period when much trade with the United Kingdom was more limited as a result of Christmas holidays, on the one hand, and the period of adaptation to the new trade rules which entered into force on 1 January. I will not be able to give you a meaningful report on these consequences for another three to six months. Since January, the UK has not been a Member State and has itself set the rules for the import of animals, plants and certain products of animal and plant origin. These requirements imply that the BFSA must carry out certain checks and provide the necessary guarantees in the form of health or phytosanitary certificates, as is the case for imports and exports from and to other third countries. The BFSA has many years of experience in this field and already organises import controls and export certification in an efficient way. Thanks to additional resources, the BFSA has also strengthened its services in order to be able to effectively absorb these additional checks and certification by the Brexit for the benefit of the sectors. It has been informing inspectors of the new rules on trade with the United Kingdom for a long time, so that they have been able to prepare and organise themselves. For example, the BFSA participated in numerous European meetings and webinars. It has set up a dedicated Brexit website and a call centre and organises specific sectoral consultations, if necessary. Although the majority of operators have made considerable efforts to function correctly, it has to be noted that despite all government initiatives, the preparation of some people is inadequate. Fourthly, as regards my competence in the field of food safety, I can assure you that the BFSA is doing everything possible to reduce the burden on our companies within the limits of what is legally acceptable in Belgium, but also for the European Commission and the United Kingdom. As I know, trade between Belgium and the United Kingdom is currently quiet for goods requiring sanitary or phytosanitary conditions. No major problems have been identified at the moment. Both the BFSA and I closely monitor the situation and will continue to do so as long as necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u53	Minister, I have every confidence that you will follow the situation closely. Indeed, it is a little early to draw any conclusions. I will certainly ask the question again later. It may be useful to organise a meeting in committee in a few months' time to reflect on the impact of the Brexit on our agricultural sector or the economy in general. Then we can watch that together and maybe learn lessons from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic333x.u54	We can definitely take that with us. If we talk again about the regulation of work, we can also look at when we plan it best. Several ministers are probably also responsible for this, such as the Ministers for Agriculture, Economics and Foreign Trade. We'll look into it in a few weeks if you put it on the agenda.
