ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u2	The next item is the discussion of the Government's statement. Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of From Roover to the N-VA, who will have a 40-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u3	Parliament's misconception as the core of democratic decision-making by the government usually remains within the bubble of that body. The outside world is not interested in that at first. I think it was rightly charged that the degradation of respect for our institution, which your government has shown over the past year, had a low point yesterday. When people at home have not only a CO2 meter but also an irony meter, it certainly began to beat in the red when you used the word respect yesterday. The fact that you even hated running away yesterday, while we just mentioned that we weren't allowed to come, is bizarre about the story. We had to respect a foot and a half away, when we all saw yesterday that it was respected from the moment the President uttered the words 'the sitting has been opened'. Everyone's gonna be at a meter and a half. Before that everyone in the halls is lofting together, but here it is suddenly put forward as a sacred principle. Let's face it, that's hypocritical. Point on the line. Anyway, passons. In the meantime, we're a day later, and that's an eternity in politics. We hope that the next year will be marked by a proper way of debating it. I don't know if I missed much yesterday by not listening to your State of the Union. We had already heard the press conference, where a great deal of information was given. More importantly, you were unable to communicate yesterday the long-awaited start-up of the government, I say not even restart. Your government statement in 2020, in the European Parliament, was an accumulation of words, words, words, perhaps run by an office by a positivo generator. Behind those words, however, were very few appointments. You paid the price for that. The government negotiations did not take place before this government was formed, but they were usually conducted in the social media and in the press, especially from the moment Corona was fortunately - somewhat out of the picture. The question was, what are we going to do together? After all, the coalition agreement that was presented last year was too hollow to provide jobs, too hollow to base a policy. That is why after that Corona year, which was rightly the priority for months, everyone was expecting the government to present itself now. However, anyone who was hoping for the big launch of the De Croo project was deceived. Those who were perhaps pleasantly surprised yesterday, and that will not have been a small part of public opinion, were those who watched the skirmishes that preceded your State of the Union, because expectations were so low; the quarrels, the clattering statements and the conflicting views were so manifest that everyone even thought that your government's engine would stop and that you wouldn't get anywhere. When the expectation pattern is laid so low, you may have pleasantly surprised a number of people, people who had expected nothing to happen, while just a little more than nothing has rolled off the bus. For those people, you may have already brought some nice news. Anyone who is waiting for a policy of activation, a policy that pays attention to the money, a policy of respect for the people who run our society in general and our economy in particular, who had hoped for a project, has been deceived. Besides, Prime Minister, the reason is not that you have no ambition. One feels between the lines that you have ambition to accomplish things. In fact, I think you have a desire to use your party's slogan. You have ambition and desire, but no force. This undoubtedly leads to the necessary frustrations. You can't do what you know should actually be done. After all, you have blocks on your leg on all sides. If we compare your government to, for example, a car, then yesterday you made it clear that it is still running, as it is popularly called, in ralenti. You drove him out of the garage and put him out front. The question of where that car is going and at what speed is absolutely not answered. After all, your dashboard has seven different route planners, all indicating a different path. Since you also have to respect those seven a little bit, it will be very difficult to get the car moving. If he moves, it's zigzag and sputtering. We have been able to follow in the press how this government statement of State of the Union was a kind of making or was. There's a lot of pastries, but I also heard you ate pancakes. They were served on ice. Apparently, you broke the ice too. It was the first time the ministers saw each other in person again, and I have the impression that, in order to improve the atmosphere, you have played a company game in the formatting of your text. That company game was "Ready your Empire"! Of course, that game was necessary, because the budgetary effort of EUR 3 billion, according to the IMF, brings us to the last place in Europe in terms of deficit. You yourself quoted the IMF yesterday, so you think this is a credible institution. They'll know where the bar is. EUR 3 billion is the absolutely minimum effort compared to our neighbouring countries and other relevant countries. However, you have lingered under the amount of EUR 2 billion. You mentioned it yesterday. Somewhere, the figure is 2.4 billion. But of this EUR 2.4 billion effort, half a billion is already being absorbed by new policies. It is not that this new policy is by definition open to discussion, for the sake of clarity. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. But that means that the net effort for state finances is obviously less than EUR 2 billion. How did you get that minimal effort? How did you get this amount? Of course, it's full of fried air. Some examples illustrate that. I shall begin with the evergreen, namely the fight against fraud. The tables say that somewhere in the middle, but when the budget is drawn up, this is the leftover box in the Excel file, which you say: "How much are we short? Call that anti-fraud." Last year it was an additional EUR 200 million and for 2022 it would be EUR 400 million. We have no idea at all whether the EUR 200 million, which was in the tables last year, has ever been achieved. Although some sort of anti-fraud plan has been presented, new taxes have been translated as anti-fraud, which is strange. Whether something really happened to that, we have guessed about that. In the meantime, this amount has risen to EUR 400 million and you want to go to EUR 1 billion during this reign. You want to get this amount out of the fight against fraud. Do you believe this? These are tricks to name a number you're hoping for. You'll probably say that's not true. There is already some compassion about the payback effects, but they must be part of a good policy. They are rightly included, but the question is how these effects are assessed. The extra jobs that would be created would be good for a return of 30,000 euros per job. However, the Federal Planning Office itself said in drawing up the electoral programmes that it would not be possible to estimate more than EUR 22 000 for this purpose. After all, it's often not about the best-paid jobs. However, you have raised the payback effect of 22,000 euros per job to 30,000 euros. With that fictitious figure, you have been able to spend your budget again with EUR 100 million. But what is behind this promise and raising that figure? I do not know whether we have received incorrect notifications, but it is strange that there are ten thousand additional jobs in these, whereas the tables contain 13,500 additional jobs. So you want to create 35% more jobs. I do not know what measures have been taken that have allowed you to suddenly increase your ambitions between the notifications and the final tables by a third. Why is that? What happened there? What I do know is that raising the ambitions in notifications to 13,500 additional jobs will bring EUR 100 million again in your table. Count your empire. This brings you EUR 100 million closer to the EUR 2 billion already limited in itself. Then there's the job creation. I was talking about 30,000 euros per job, but it's just a question of whether you have any chance at all of getting that number of jobs. Last year the Court of Auditors considered an estimate of EUR 400 million unbelievable. You are now moving towards EUR 1.2 billion by the end of the legislative term, without taking serious measures to create jobs. In that respect, I believe that this has been registered at the height of the game of mathematics. You will recall the discussion at the start of your government on tax fraud, in particular whether the amount was cumulative. You stumbled somewhat over your own numbers. Turns out you didn't control the table 100%. However, I remain cautious. Do I miss the fact that excise duties on tobacco are seen on the one hand as a burden in the table of additional income, but on the other hand they are used at the same time to reduce labour costs? I see these EUR 120 million appearing twice in the tables. If that's true, that's the game again, "Receive your Empire." You can make us wiser on that level. What has also helped to make the figures right was to make sure that they are obsolete today. After all, you once again do not take into account increased inflation and its impact on the index. Of course, this has a budgetary impact. We're not gonna find any of that. Can you explain that or is that also an element in the game 'Receive Your Empire'? To complete this minimum exercise, we must of course also ask who pays for the game. You do remember that somewhat crazy coalition agreement of yours, probably written by several ghostwriters. One wrote that there would be no tax increases and the other wrote that this could only be done in the context of budgetary negotiations. You have not missed the opportunity to introduce new taxes. I can see in the communication that you are bringing the peanuts, the tax cuts, very much to the attention of you, while of course forgetting to say what is going on. Let's stick to a dry number, Prime Minister. The taxes, by which I mean that what is being taken away from the citizen in order to harden the state's cash, increase by EUR 1.2 billion. This will give people back 225 million euros through the reduction of charges. Those are big numbers, but I'll make it very simple. If the citizen gives a 5 euro note to the government, then he gets a 1 euro voucher back, to be spent in various parts of the government store. That's the affair. You must buy that 1 euro receipt with a 5 euro note. That is the relationship between tax increases and tax reductions today. Our country is a record holder of grab sprayers because we are already at the top in the area of tax evasion, as your party does not fail to notice in uninhibited moments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u4	Mr De Roover, I listen to you very carefully. I believe that our parties on the economic agenda share different views. Over the years, we've been proclaiming that, together, too. More specifically, if there are more people at work, the government will receive more revenue and have to spend less. The government is introducing a package today, which you cannot ignore. You have just said that we count ourselves rich and that we do not have any measure against the number of jobs that would be added. That's not serious, is it? I refer to the efforts made by Minister Vandenbroucke in the field of incapacity for work. A large group of people, especially in Flanders, is that a large reserve is disabled. Those who are really ill will not be harassed, but sometimes disabled people can still be led to another job. We'll find out what else people can do and guide them to a job. For the first time, that logic, which you defend with us on many levels, will really be implemented in practice. It will also be subject to sanctions if those who have to cooperate do not do so. We worked together in the previous government, but that was not possible in that government. When you left the Michel administration, there was a work deal on the table, which could not be carried out in its entirety by the fall of that government. Today, in terms of disability, there is a package for activation with a much more humane and clearer approach in the supervision of many currently inactive people. This includes a menu of more than 30 labour market measures, which allow regions, among other things, to work differentiatedly. This measure also comes at the request of the Flemish Government, in which we manage together. Another measure is that, in conjunction with the social partners, we offer flexibility, allowing people to organize their day autonomously. We'll escort people faster. The dismissal allowance is activated, so that people will be escorted to another job in a longer period of dismissal. Anyone who threatens to lose his job will be offered a path to a new job. All this is contained in a very concrete package of more than 30 measures. I would like to hear you say that we count ourselves rich and that there are no measures. Under the previous government, however, I did not see a package such as the one we are now proposing, which makes activation tough and offers a real perspective for the whole country towards increased labour market participation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u5	You are a perfect illustration of what I have just said: you have ambition and desire, but you have no power of action. We share all your statements that you are defending here. Your colleagues at the Flemish level will manage to follow that path. They do not have to deal with a certain obstacle to which you are familiar. If you had made other choices with the formation of the government, you could have gained not only appetite, but also strength. You refer to the Summer Agreement, which has never been implemented. At that time too, we in the opposition offered to vote in favour of it. You rejected that. We had the majority then and we really do not need to be part of a government to pass laws. We have always offered to carry out that summer chord, but we found no answer. You probably didn't have any energy back then, but you didn't have any power back then either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u6	I know, of course, the story your colleagues and other parties in the hemisphere tell, namely that if in our country certain factors in the south of the country were not to be included, not to mention the French-speaking parties, we would not have a problem and the labour market would be reformed, as you wish. In the previous government there was a Flemish dominance with three parties and there was one French-speaking party. Everything that's on the table here, you've never been able to do in that government and never been implemented. That was not possible because you dropped the government at the time. We are now doing what was left behind, in a humane and feasible way, with a view to increasing labour market participation. Under your previous government, that dream scenario wasn't possible at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u7	Mr Lachaert, I can only repeat that I would have liked to have heard you say that here after the fall, when we had the majority to do so. You did not give them at home at the time, you said you were no longer playing with the N-VA, even when we offered our votes from the opposition. So you could have carried out that summer chord. You refused to do that. Now you don't have to put that ball in our camp. We were available, you were deaf to our offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u8	Madam President, Mr De Roover, Open Vld says here to the N-VA that this government is pursuing a more right-wing policy than the Swedish Government. The Swedish Government has never dared to sanction long-term sick people. Mr Lachaert asks you here how you dare to lecture Open Vld, because this Vivaldi government is finally daring to impose sanctions on long-term sick people. What do you say to that? It is true that today's policy on long-term sick people is going to be more right-wing than that of the Swedish Government. Why don't you agree with him? Just admit that your Swedish government has not dared to apply a sanction and explain why Vivaldi dares today. Explain it, Mr. De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u9	Mr De Roover, Mr Hedebouw has made a point, but I think you should agree that a model in which we only push people towards benefits, as the PVDA wants, is a model of poverty. No other party with social concerns wants to go there. Mr Hedebouw, there is nothing more social than helping people with benefits, who are also walking the walls today because they are not active, to reintegrate into society. That's nothing more than a warm social story that fits me perfectly as a liberal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u10	Madam President, I'm in a little bit of trouble. Mr Hedebouw asks me a question, but it is actually addressed to Mr Laaouej and Mr Lachaert asks me a question addressed to Mr Hedebouw. If we come to Parliament, can you not ask us questions instead of those who are not in the Chamber? Then perhaps the debate would be a little more orderly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u11	Madam President, on this subject, it seems to me that in the Conference of Presidents we had agreed that the questions should be addressed to the speaker, not that debates should take place between the members of the Assembly or that we should not get out of it and see what we have experienced last year again: endless debates in which, after 40 minutes in the rostrum, the speaker spent two hours responding to the other parliamentarians and, above all, attending the debates between them. If we want to avoid this situation, we must return to the agreement reached at the Conference of Presidents and the consensus reached, and that the questions are addressed to the speaker, otherwise we will not get away with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u12	Madam President, I can reassure Mr Laaouej that I will not reply on his behalf. That's a part that doesn't fit me. We were talking about the pancakes and the "Receive your Empire" exercise. Meanwhile, the question has been asked who will pay. Mr Lachaert, one pays 5 euros and in return one gets a voucher of 1 euros. That is the fiscal exercise in this budget. Where is the third rule of the coalition agreement? That rule is: a third savings, a third taxes and a third'rest'. The latter are, of course, also taxes, but with a different name. If we look at the numbers, 50% of the effort is taxes. A third is not equal to 50%, but 33,33333%. You do not make bad choices with certain tax decisions, there are good, right choices. Our tax system is absolutely reshapeable. I hope that the Minister of Finance will make us happy in the future. Certain taxes have a logic that is no longer justifiable today. The big question is, of course, whether you see this tax reform as a way of filling up the state's cash, which is happening now, or as a way of shifting taxes from those who are paying too much today to those who are paying too little today. For that second choice, we are your ally. However, you make the other choice. You are increasing the attack that word is well-chosen on the citizen by another EUR 1 billion more than that 50% we already pay in taxes today. One example is the fight against fraud. I wish you every success, because anyone who cheats is breaking the law. There can only be zero tolerance policies for this purpose. If you finally catch the naughty people who evade taxes, shouldn't the revenues serve to lower the tax bill of the good people who have paid too much taxes for years because of the less income due to fraud? In that exercise we are absolutely your ally, but it is not that exercise you make: you throw everything on a pile, as an extra income. The energy bill, which you unpack with, does not decrease but shifts from one category to another. It is the middle class that comes out and will have to pay an extra EUR 600 million in its own pocket to ensure that 20% of the population can make use of it. This while you want to give the impression that you're doing something for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u13	Mr De Roover, I listened carefully to your speech and heard some slogans that would undoubtedly do well on Twitter. The reality is, however, that we are here in Parliament and after 23 minutes we have only heard criticism, but no proposal at all. What would the N-VA do about the energy bill? I'd like to hear that from you. Would you reduce the VAT you raised yourself a few years ago? Would you hand out cheques and go beyond what the PS had proposed? I think we know the answer to those questions. Two weeks ago, in the September declaration of the Flemish Government, it appeared that the N-VA would do nothing. Well, we choose to lower that bill for 2 million Belgians and to extend the social rate for that large group of people and to better protect all families from price increases, to improve consumer protection and to ensure that every family is ultimately better protected. I repeat: I would like to hear from you what the N-VA would propose to reduce the energy bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u14	It is very bizarre that the Flemish Government is being placed on the dock, while, for example, it has reduced 7% of the charges contained in the invoice while your federal government increased them by 15% before we talked about increasing the energy bill. The Flemish Government, which continues its efforts, but which is divided among the broad population, has therefore taken action at a time when Mrs Van der Straeten was still increasing the invoice. Mrs. Depraetere, you remember Deborah. She's falling out of the boat, you know that. Deborah is a cashier at Aldi's, and if her husband is a mailman, they're out of 20 percent. Then they are the ones who will somehow have to cough up 600 million and will not benefit from your measure. You give the impression that this is a measure enjoyed by a broad group of Flemings or Belgians. But reality is different, Deborah falls out of your energy boat, Mrs Depraetere.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u15	Mr De Roover, I would like to correct a factual error. You say that this government first raised the invoice by 15%. That is wrong, this government has not taken any measure to increase the invoice. No doubt you refer to the cost of offshore wind energy, which has happened here before. However, that is the policy of the previous government. This was not only the case with the previous government, it was a firm practice in energy policy to automatically charge increased costs to the invoice one by one. We have just put a stop to this by introducing the energy standard. This means that costs are neutralized and exemptions are applied. The invoice is therefore no longer a second tax charge, it is being reformed for the first time. As a result, it also sets up a dam against the price increases you have just set an example of.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u16	Madam Secretary, those are fine intentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u17	Mr De Roover, you spoke to me about Deborah and I would like to respond. If you knew her a little bit, you would know that she has just been ill for a long time and that the choices made here will allow her to return to her job more quickly, that she will be more quickly integrated into the labour market, that she will be able to get a net higher wage, that her health care, her mental care and her dental care will be better reimbursed and that if she retires her minimum pension will be higher. Those are the choices this government makes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u18	Actually, I'd advise Deborah not to look for work, because she'd lose her energy bonus. That is what is happening today, and that is the illustration of the inactivity policy you are pursuing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u19	Mr De Roover, that too is factually wrong. The broad social tariff target group concerns those who are entitled to increased benefits, and in most cases they are those with modest incomes, such as cleaning women. I'll be there in a minute. What you're saying is actually wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u20	Mrs Van der Straeten, you can stretch that 20% as much as you like, but you keep ignoring 80% of people. You know what I think, Mr. Van Quickenborne? I don't think you're interested in the working, active Flemings anymore. You leave them in the cold, you do not think it is necessary as a liberal to protect and defend the engine of our economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u21	Madam President, Mr De Roover, this government makes very clear choices. Take energy now. People face an energy bill that can rise by up to 700 euros annually. This means that energy poverty in our country is increasing. This government feels it is normal to provide an answer to that. That is 2 million Belgians, and it costs a lot, but this government does. The social energy tariff is being strengthened and extended. Besides, we're moving on. In addition, we introduce an energy standard whereby the federal government fully accepts its responsibility with regard to the federal part of the invoice and ensures that price increases are blocked by converting taxes into excise duties, as a buffer against further increases in energy prices. That's for the benefit of the families. This will benefit the companies. We have been praised for this. Do you know whose? From TestAchats, from the VOKA and from the poverty organisations. Mr De Roover, that proves that this government's energy policy is tailored to everyone and meets the diverse needs and needs of our society. And we're proud of that. That is an ambition and realization that can be seen. The following may have been a little bit under the radar, but I'd still like to present it to you. Debora is also faced with energy bills that are not really transparent, with energy companies that sometimes allow abuse, which sometimes raise advances when they really don't have to and aren't necessary. This government, under the radar but still, has taken the decision to make the energy bill more transparent for everyone, to prevent abuse and thus protect the consumer. Mr De Roover, that too is a measure that can be seen. That goes together with something you have not actually mentioned, namely a reduction in charges, wide and for everyone. After all, we are going to reduce the crisis contribution to social security. It's about 300 million, and it meets, again, all the people who work. This government has therefore taken a wide range of measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u22	Mr De Vriendt, you have not listened carefully. If you give a 5 euro note to the government, you get a 1 euro coin back. That's the coin I was talking about. You can now sell it a thousand times as a giant exercise, but you pay five times more for it. People are actually looking at their invoices. The government is making efforts to keep the advances on the energy account in check, but beware, the final statement will remain the final statement. There too, people are in danger of being turned in front of their eyes. We'll see how this is done. If you carry out the exercise of the shift to excise duties, you may be able to influence the energy bill, but that means that it will end up in the general budget. This means once again that it is the taxpayers who sooner or later take the fall for it. You're not wiping out the bill. There's no sugar nut coming over for a treat. The pit from which you will get the money to carry out the change remains the well filled by the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u23	Mr De Roover, of course I share the criticism that 80% of the population will not be helped. That's a real social problem. After all, what is called the middle class is the working class in the broad sense. When you talk about cleaning women who can get the social rate, that says a lot about wages paid today in Belgium to a large part of the working class. But I don't understand something. If the N-VA wants to stand up for the middle class, can you tell us today that the party regrets the VAT increase it made from 6% to 21% under the previous legislature? Dear N-VAs, you may think that was a mistake today. If there is a measure that has affected the entire population, including the Flemish middle class, then it is the VAT increase. That is why my question is very clear. Mr De Roover, do you think that today we should reduce VAT from 21% to 6%? I have heard that Mrs Demir might not be against it. But she didn't remember it so well. That is why I am now officially asking the group chairman of the N-VA: are you in favour or against the VAT reduction from 21% to 6% on gas and electricity?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u24	Mrs Demir referred to the suggestions made in the majority, but a reduction in VAT is not at all our proposal. We have reduced it, because the VAT reduction actually meant that an index jump was avoided. At least that was the intention of then Minister Vande Lanotte and of the Di Rupo Government. A seemingly social measure was introduced which resulted in wages not rising. We do not lend ourselves to such an exercise. That is the official answer to your official question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u25	Mr De Roover, that's bullshit, of course. The right-wing parties want us to believe that we are best placed to argue for a general VAT increase, so that all our wages increase. C'est n'importe quoi. I thought the index overrun was only followed afterwards. Your reasoning is not correct. The right-wing parties just want the whole middle class to keep paying. 21 % VAT is levied on a vital asset, namely gas and electricity. From a social point of view, that is unseen. You agreed to that with me. Today, you're trying to make us think you support the middle class. When your party supplied the Minister of Finance, you simply let the people pay. Your credibility as right-wing party to propose socially just measures today, c'est zéro pointé, a fat zero.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u26	As long as the criticism of Minister Van Overtveldt's policy comes from communists, I am quite confident that his policy was a success.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u27	Bravo! (..)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u28	Mr De Roover, allow me to comment on the last point you have just made. First of all, I think you are making some miscalculations in the calculation of EUR 5 and EUR 1. In particular, you also include things that have already been introduced in a previous legislature. I'm naming the securities tax. You calculate the securities tax, which actually existed in the previous legislature and for which we simply restored the legal text after the judgment of the Constitutional Court. That's why I think your math is wrong. Secondly, I come back to the energy prices that are swinging out of the pan, a point which you are quite right to raise and about which people are addressing us on the streets. We have taken measures for the most vulnerable, as they are the most affected. I hope that the N-VA will support those measures for the most vulnerable. By the way, and with this, I repeat to your last remark that we are not doing anything for the middle class - the measures which the Minister has cited are of benefit to everyone and therefore to the middle class. Of course, you can get one fragment from the budget that is going to be presented here. However, it is the whole that counts. The whole thing is that we are reducing costs, which for the first time is also very directed towards the middle class. Of course we have done so for the low wages. We shall now do so through the special social contributions. We are doing this in stages in order to be able, of course, to bear the cost of the measure. This measure is aimed specifically at the middle class. I will not give you a history of politics here, but what previous governments did also does today's government. It caters to the middle class by ensuring that people can get to work, including people who are struggling to get to work, people who are partly ill, people who need additional training. That is what we do with very targeted measures, which will result in thousands of additional jobs. A job provides a higher income, which also benefits the middle class.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u29	Mr De Roover, you claim that we are not wiping out the accounts, and Mr Hedebouw talks about it as if 80% of families are not doing anything. I think you did not understand Mr De Vriendt's point. For example, in relation to consumer protection, we have all jointly adopted a bill that will eliminate dormant energy contracts from 1 January 2022. This will mean that consumers who had an old and expensive contract will now have to pay less than EUR 700 per year on average, according to the CREG calculations. That money does not come from the government's pot, but from the profits of the energy companies. Consumers must be properly protected. Today, the major problem in the market is the lack of transparency. Indeed, many consumers can't live up to their energy bill today. That is why the government is working to disseminate energy bills on a single A4 and the present agreement contains all kinds of measures that are of interest to consumers. Who are the 80% users who have problems understanding their invoice. That's like the consumers. We are taking steps forward in addressing this problem. You're talking about the fact that we don't turn away accounts. But our measures will make a positive difference for many citizens, given the rise in gas prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u30	In fact, this was also a question for Mr Hedebouw, but he will not intervene until later. I hope, Mr Verherstraeten, that I will get to that point. I do appreciate that, unlike the declaration of government, you are having a debate now and that there is an exchange of thoughts now. Of course, that bothers me when I finish my speech, but that does give me the opportunity to react. But you continue to stress the EUR 1 that we get in exchange for our EUR 5 note. And you keep your mouth shut about the 5 euros. That's the point. You say you're pulling out one fragment. No, you're taking out one euro. You take out the good news, and you don't tell me what the cost of it is. So you're the one who looks at the tables very blindly and very nearsightedly. It has always been said that the tax shift of the previous government was not financed. What does that mean? This means that we have returned more to society than the government has taken them away. That's the bottom line. And here's where the opposite happens. Your tax shift has been overfunded. You pay double and heavy for it so that in the long term people will get a little back. Colleagues, I want to talk about the reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u31	Mr De Roover, I do not wish to disturb the construction of your speech. I would be happy to move on to your next point, but could it be that I have not received an answer to my question as to what the N-VA would do about increasing energy costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u32	We are discussing the State of the Union, not an alternative government statement, but you know that Mrs Demir is taking 200 million euros of measures, which are spread widely across the Flemish middle class. Moreover, as has already been said by Mr Wollants, and I believe that it will also be discussed in the debate on the subject, we have said that the government should not benefit from the additional revenue from a tax increase. The government can't enjoy that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u33	That was our point, too. We said that right away. The government must not make a profit on the increase in the energy bill. That is exactly what we are doing now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u34	That is also my point, which is why I am not critical of that point either. It would be kind of bad if you didn't do anything right. You won't hear that reproach from me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u35	Mr De Roover, you are referring to the Flemish Government. The Flemish government has not done much yet in terms of reducing the energy bill, unless a very quick catch-up and communication when it heard what ambitions the federal government has put on the table. We can continue to discuss and say who needs to do more and who does not do enough, but ultimately, every level of policy in Belgium, and beyond, in Europe and worldwide, is confronted with rising energy prices. For Ecolo-Green, this means reducing dependence on fossil fuels as quickly as possible and moving to 100% renewable energy as quickly as possible. That's what this government does. Offshore wind energy is doubled. We go to a number of projects around hydrogen, solar panels at sea and the like. The compass is very clear. We go to 100% renewable energy, the sooner the better. You said just now that converting taxes into excise duty does not make much difference in practice. That is all from the general resources, in the general pot. You forget, however, that we are working on an ecoshift here. In other words, we are going to increase taxes on professional diesel and a CO2 compensation on short air travel. Increasing purchasing power for the people, introducing the energy standard, blocking price increases on the energy bill is all funded because we are carrying out an ecoshift on polluting matters. We'll charge them more fairly. That's just the logic itself. You just mentioned an obstacle to this government. You told Mr Lachaert that he knew who you were talking about. The obstacle to this federal government in terms of energy and climate ambitions is in fact the Flemish government at the moment. After all, we all assume climate ambition. However, the Flemish Government, with its climate ambition, remains below the European objective. It is a gravel in Europe's shoes. She is the poor pupil of the European class. Yesterday, the Prime Minister was right to pay a great deal of attention to the fight against global warming, which we experienced in our country this summer. I remind you of the 41 dead. The federal government needs partners to realize this. The regions, including Flanders, must be equally ambitious. They can do a lot to lower the energy bill. Madam President, I do not know if there is a lunch break today, but I suggest that Mr De Roover use it to call his colleagues in the Flemish Government to ask them to invest in aid for energy saving in our homes. In fiscal terms, the Flemish government is left behind. The more energy one saves, the lower the energy bill. There is still a lot of work to be done. However, it is still one of the best ways to combat higher energy prices. So take advantage of the time you may have today to respond to your colleagues in the Flemish government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u36	I understand why the Prime Minister in the State of the Union hasn't talked about fighting fake news anymore. After all, you should have turned off your microphone. The Flemish government is strongly committed to this. We are committed to making fossil free of our energy supply. What do we hear in the media? Are we finally getting news? Are we not going to continue with the gas plants? In the media it was reported that Green was finally going overboard and that we are opting for fossil-poor nuclear energy. Green has now announced that the 2 CO2-free nuclear power plants will be kept open so that fossil gas plants do not have to be rolled out at this level. Thank you, Mr De Vriendt. I never thought you'd take the turn to ecorealism. I never thought you'd drop the dogma of all people and follow Mr. Bouchez. Mr Nollet also announced this week what he thinks of the 13 million tonnes of CO2. I do not know which of your group was going to argue against government policy on the climate march. One of the important points there was that there should be no subsidies for fossil energy supplies. However, that is exactly what your government is doing. That's the point I wanted to come to and which isn't in the State of the Union. Mr De Croo, we do not see the word nuclear energy in that. Isn't that a theme? Isn't something that's gonna come up in 12 months? I know, of course, why you didn't say anything, but this was a small flaw in your State of the Union. It seems to me that not only the people but also many companies would have expected that the liberating word would finally come from you, but perhaps it came from Mr De Vriendt today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u37	Mr De Roover, I would like to take this opportunity to clarify a little. It's the period of student debates. We've done another one together recently. That is where gas plants or nuclear power stations have always been called into question, and I want to make that clear. I know your position on nuclear energy. I know that the N-VA wants to keep the two least old nuclear power plants open, but I want to know what is going on with the gas plants. You also know that we are not going to get there, even if we keep those two nuclear power stations open. A newspaper article from two and a half years ago said that the N-VA is doing everything for new gas plants. That was one of the last moments when you showed some federal responsibility. You knew then that we did not get there with those gas plants, even with those two nuclear power stations. The N-VA supported the CRM resolution to support not only production capacity but also storage capacity. So it would be a good idea for your party to clarify that. Does your party today say that it is only in favour of keeping those two old nuclear power stations open and otherwise taking the risk of blacking out? Are you saying that you are opposed to any new gas plant in this country, or are you assuming your responsibility and saying that the two nuclear plants must be used, but also those one or two additional gas plants that we need anyway? I would like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u38	Mr De Roover, I was wondering where you were with the gas plants, with the nuclear exit, with the energy debate, and finally we are here. No one is a fan of gas plants, but if we want to move towards more renewable energy and at the same time guarantee security of supply, and if we find out how critical energy policy has been in recent years, without preparing for the core exit, then there is a problem. Therefore, a limited number of gas plants are temporarily needed to ensure security of supply in our country, as an intermediate step towards renewable energy. Not only are we convinced of that, of course with a little pain in the heart, that is actually true for your party. After all, Mr De Roover, you are making a great turn here. I have here a newspaper article of 2 January 2019: "N-VA is doing everything for new gas plants." I would like to quote a member of your group: 'N-VA also counts in its plans, in which two of the seven nuclear power plants remain open after 2025, on the mechanism that supports gas plants'. Mr Wollants of the N-VA Group also said literally: "If you want a rotating gas plant by 2025, you can't wait until 2021 to apply for the necessary permits. Then you're hopelessly late." Mr Wollants is a member of your group, Mr De Roover. Everyone has this problem, there is a temporary need for a limited number of gas plants. However, the government has changed and the colours in the political landscape look different, so you have come into opposition mode and suddenly wiped the gas plants off the table. That's too bad because it's flat party politics. That has nothing to do with reality anymore. It is a pity that you poison the energy debate in this way. I live on the coast and know it very well, windmills do their job. Do you know which power plants will be shut down if there is too much energy production? That is not the nuclear power stations, it is the windmills, Mr De Roover. If we want to move to 100% renewable energy as quickly as possible, and if we want to achieve the nuclear exit at the same time, partly because of the unresolved problem of nuclear waste, then a few gas plants are temporarily needed. Until recently, even your group was convinced of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u39	Madam President, Black Piet will not arrive until 6 December, if he is still allowed to come. Mr De Vriendt, Parliament has a lack of historical insight, and that is certainly true of you. When did the immoral increase in energy prices occur? That was 20 years ago. Blue was in power back then. We then carried out 15% of our energy and there was no problem with the energy bill of Jan Modaal. Today we are introducing at least 25% to 30% of our energy, because of your green convulsion, Mr De Vriendt. You have a lot of praise for the windmills at sea, but fortunately they are still far away. If they come closer as France intends, the federal government will also protest. In the meantime, you will plant 88 windmills in the backyard of the coastal municipalities that are almost as high as the Eiffel Tower. This will also destroy coastal tourism. Mr De Vriendt, the green certificates are worth EUR 35 billion. Because of the green anger that is passed on either to the energy bill or to the taxpayer, of which 14 to 16 billion are for the windmills at sea. They must be paid by the modal citizen through taxes. For the windmills on land, biomass and what else do I know, it is EUR 35 billion. Now you want to close the nuclear power stations on top of that and make the taxpayer pay an additional EUR 4 billion for gas plants. You should be ashamed of yourself instead of pointing the finger at the N-VA. It is the mischief of the last 30 years that has now to be paid for and for which more will have to be paid. All you do is point your finger at others while you should color green, blue or red of shame.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u40	You may be independent, but you must respect the rules. All questions will be put to the speaker. Mr De Roover, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u41	I'm starting to feel schizophrenic. I have already been called Mr Hedebouw, Mr Laaouej, and now Mr De Vriendt. Mr Verduckt and Mr De Vriendt, I underestimate your intelligence, so I know that you yourself know that you are talking nonsense and underestimating the intelligence of the public. When we say that gas plants are part of the energy mix, that is quite another thing than to say that the power of the nuclear power plants is also converted into gas plants. Is that so hard? Do you have to have studied for a long time? Of course, as Mr Bouchez rightly points out, gas plants are part of this energy mix, which you are fully committed to. Green has now become the CO2 emission party. That is where your energy policy has become. For the sake of dogmas, you are able to argue both and do the opposite two days later in Parliament. That's what one has to be green for.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u42	Mr De Roover, it is not about nuclear exit and nuclear power. You have just attacked and criticised the federal government for temporarily including a limited number of gas plants in the energy mix we provide and which is necessary. Your attack is intellectually unfair because, in your scenario, in which the two youngest nuclear power plants remain open, you yourself have opted for gas plants. That is clearly stated in the press in which you are quoted, and there is no doubt about that. You said yourself that the N-VA is doing everything it can for new gas plants. Don't tell people vesicles. If you underestimate intelligence, I think you underestimate people's memory. It's been two years, Mr. De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u43	Mr De Roover, I will not respond to Mr Dedecker's statement that nuclear power stations do not cost anything. We can have another debate on this. I am glad that you say that the gas plants have the role of energy mix. You should look at your own N-VA website, where there is a whole text on nuclear power plants. The word 'gas power station' is hardly mentioned. The impression is given that they are nuclear power stations or gas plants. That clarity is important. The problem is that energy policy is a long-term policy. In the previous government, you reconfirmed the core exit. You have not opposed this in the government, but in the streets. You were part of the previous government that raised the VAT on energy to 21%. Today, your minister says it must be 6%. Your Minister did not introduce any measures in the September Declaration to reduce the energy bill. Yesterday, she announced that she would pay EUR 200 million for this. It's just that fluctuation that's problematic. In that respect, your party is more unreliable than the oldest nuclear reactor in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u44	Mr De Roover, I have a question for you. In the debate on nuclear power and gas plants, I see a false contradiction that your party constantly puts in place: either we keep the nuclear power stations open or we will build gas plants. Your party distributes it on social media, which is not at all about it. In this hemisphere, every party knows very well that five out of seven reactors will be shut down. Target 1, Target 2, Tihange 1, no cat wants to extend it. Neither do the two crack reactors. There is still a debate - an intellectual debate is possible - on whether or not the last two reactors, Objective 4 and Tihange 3, should be kept open and whether or not they are still needed. Mr De Roover, you oppose the construction of any gas plant. This means that you are making energy policy in our country dependent on two reactors, since five are closing. I remember that five years ago in the middle of winter, six of the seven nuclear reactors stopped for technical reasons. That meant a huge problem. Reserves had to be sought, including diesel capacity and other fuels, with an incredible amount of CO2 emitted. Imagine an energy landscape in our country in 2025 where we depend on two reactors. When there is a problem with these two reactors, we have nothing and we are totally dependent on imports. The lamp won't stay on anymore. Mr De Roover, we will have a fair debate on these two reactors. The coalition agreement also states that we will soon decide on this. However, this happens without dogmatics, not even from the Green colleagues, as they too continue to look at all the scenarios. Security of supply and affordability are the main criteria. Mr De Roover, at no level can you claim to put an energy policy on hold without adding gas capacity. That's completely irresponsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u45	Madam President, I would like to take the floor because I was mentioned personally. Allow me to intervene in the debate for a moment, because I hear a lot of things that are absolutely not in line with reality. The current government is opting for a policy to shut down as many nuclear power plants as possible, preferably all of them. In view of the stability of the government, I do not know whether the government will stand if all nuclear power stations are not closed down. My party strives to build as few new gas plants as possible, as we have been saying every year since 2018, so today. However, some Members in the hemisphere have stated in a campaign for the Presidency of their party that the key step should be called into question. When that party joined the government, it was decided to close the nuclear power stations. That is the opposite of what we stand for. I hear Members here saying that we are also in favour of gas power stations. We are only in favour of gas plants if otherwise the light goes out. Only then. The fact that one might build a gas plant to keep the light on does not, of course, mean that one has to build gigawatts together, that is something completely different. The two nuclear power plants together account for 2 gigawatts and the government wants to build 2.3 gigawatts of gas plants. It's not that far apart. One could save a whole lot of money. After all, ladies and gentlemen, what have the nuclear power stations contributed to the budget in recent years? That was just over EUR 3.5 billion. What will the new gas plants cost us in 15 years? By gas power station, this can be up to 900 million euros. We have to ask ourselves, then, whether a technology that raises our money should be exchanged for a technology that will cost us money and which can do less in terms of budget, can do less for the people and whose costs will ultimately have to be passed on. Indeed, almost all of us here have adopted a resolution on the financing of gas plants. For us it was very important that it did not end up on top of the invoice again. There was a clear mandate for the government. The government had to propose measures before the end of last year on how we would finance that policy. We're 10 months later, the government hasn't done anything, and today there's no record of it in the State of the Union. Ladies and gentlemen, you are not being honest with yourself and you must bear the consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u46	Mr Wollants, I hope that this time it will get through to the majority, and I wish you good luck with that. After all, I have just argued that gas plants are indeed in our energy mix, on which Mr Lachaert asks why we want to remove all gas plants, why our energy mix does not include gas plants. Mr Lachaert, were your questions prepared before I said anything? Have you been told in your group that you should ask that question regardless of what is being said about it? Have you been instructed to make them, even if the opposite is said? See, that's not serious anymore, of course. It is not serious that when something is said here, you give the impression a minute later that the opposite has been said. That is not a serious way of debating things.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u47	I am just glad that Mr De Roover confirms that his party will build equally good gas plants. When I see or hear certain communications from your party, it seems to be a choice between nuclear power plants and gas. It gives the impression that they will all remain open. That's not true. You're gonna build gas power plants just as well. There are different scenarios, with the two or without the two nuclear power stations. Mr Wollants said it. I refer to the study of the independent EnergyVille. It says that whether one does it or not, it will be about the same capacity that one has to build. So let's just be honest about that, then we can close up. In itself, gas plants will have to be built, together with renewable energy sources, and we actually agree on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u48	Madam President, allow me to say that I think this is a very intellectually unfair debate. In politics, words don't actually exist, or are practically worthless. After all, it was Prime Minister De Croo who, in the run-up to the negotiations, made it quite clear that the two youngest nuclear power stations had to remain open even longer. I have just heard the Prime Minister's party chairman say that they are 40 years old and wonder what the point is. Well, Mr Lachaert, I would like to remind you that everywhere in the world where nuclear power plants exist we see and even implement a life extension as a very acceptable option. I see people nodding here, but it's just true. If you are quoting studies from EnergyVille, you must do so properly. I have also heard a number of speeches here about import dependence. I think you guys are very hypocritical in that debate. Mrs van der Straeten has repeatedly said that imports of green energy are cheap until the buildings of Green! Be occupied when Countercurrent is in front of the door. Then the minister's party leader says we have to build gas plants, otherwise we will have import dependence and we will have to import expensive energy. With all due respect, colleagues, what the hell are you doing? You're just tying yourself up in this whole debate. Yes, you've destroyed Electrabel in the past. You have simply ensured that, when it turns out in November that the two youngest nuclear power stations will have to remain open, that possibility does not even exist anymore. That's very sad. Colleagues of the majority, I understand that this was not mentioned yesterday in the State of the Union. You've rubbed your hands well. Nuclear energy was, after all, a great dogma from the very beginning. You'd rather blow up CO2 with gas plants. As a matter of fact, you want to make it compulsory for all commercial vehicles to be greened in the morning, and then you yourself hypocritically blow up the CO2 of the gas plants. Let us be serious. Those stories won't get you anywhere near the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u49	Madam President, there is no doubt that there is room for clarification in the debate on the subject. Mr Lachaert may then be asking about our position on gas plants. I now come to the reform train and the government of reform. That's sold by you now as a symphony. It's true, the first three tones are in your policy statement. But that's where it ends. It is a question of unflavored reform. It's in there. It's very, very cautious moves. After all, you have ambition, but you have no power. We see a whole series of measures, some thirty, which, in every measure, show that the government is willing, but it is not allowed. The government will'respond'. But those are peanuts. It goes in the direction of the interesting. You may have turfed in our proposals on this matter. Your majority will do more than that. You know that it is customary here in certain committees to turn good legislative proposals from us into amendments from your own groups, in order to put the plumes on your hat. Unfortunately, you have only read the first paragraph of our proposals here each time. You drew a line on that. After all, the majority has noticed that the government has driven to the left for a whole year and that no economic turn to the right can now be made. There can be no question of that turn. The government's route planner won't allow that. I'd like to give you the following information about the response. Should you also move on the path you are looking at, we might have made some interesting breakthroughs. Unfortunately, it's been too little, too late, too little. That's what people notice about other things. You are going to tackle party funding, a difference of 1.1 %. You will not approve the proposal that we have tabled here, because that went on. You said you were gonna take care of the professional athletes. Mr. Joris Vandenbroucke has started the attack, has broken past the left, has taken the ball to the center and Mr. Frank Vandenbroucke has headed him against the pole. The ball now rolls back into the field. Mr Vandenbroucke, you will probably intervene extensively on this subject in order to explain how successful your intervention has been.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u50	The N-VA is one of the few parties that has still not put forward a proposal on this issue. Do you not agree with the government's proposal to remove this injustice from the system, to ensure that those who make more money contribute more effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u51	Compared to where you wanted to go, it's just a small step. However, we are absolutely in favour of this. However, this cannot be regarded as a mere gain for the public authorities. That's where we part ways. After all, you do not think that the government can be large enough when we say that the citizen cannot get enough money. There's the difference between you and us. We do agree that the system was unfair. Hopefully, your ambition will be fulfilled a little further than those first steps. A tax intervention is not by definition a mistake if it is converted into rewarding the people who have been subject to far too high taxes until today. That's the exercise that hopefully we can find each other in.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u52	To stick to musical terms, you're always talking about symphonies, but I haven't seen from you a start of score on what needs to be done about reforming the taxation of top sportsmen. This government is looking for 43 million euros. Where's the bar for the N-VA? How do you intend to achieve it? I haven't seen a soldier's key yet, not a single note, nothing! We have made a decision!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u53	People who don't know this House might fall for that. Any proposal submitted by the N-VA, in all areas, is simply voted down with the eyes closed. People don't even read it, they're not working on it. If it is a good proposal, it will be accepted with an amendment from your majority. Your own failure will then be hidden with the question of why we have not tabled a proposal. Mr Vandenbroucke, we are putting forward a lot of proposals. However, you know the fate of all these proposals. You are consistently voting against Stalinist because the N-VA must not be supported at any time, even if we are submitting a proposal that is supported by everyone. You're not far from the one who vetoed it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u54	That criticism really doesn't make any sense. When do the proposals of the various constituent parts of the Vivaldi government date? They date from before the formation of this government. We worked together to find a solution. You don't think it's good enough. Then what is your proposal? Where's your bar? Where's your score? I still haven't gotten an answer to my question. And then it got quiet...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u55	No, my micro wasn't on. That's weird. I suggest that, contrary to what you've been honking for weeks and months, this is nevertheless undersized and you're asking what we'd do. You fail because you are in this majority, not us. Unfortunately, we can only conclude that what you have proposed is inadequate. Madam President, the clock is unmerciful. (...) The President: Mr Anseeeuw also asked to speak, and then the clock will be (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u56	I think it's changed halfway. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u57	Madam President, a factual correction of what is being insinuated here. In fact, at the beginning of this legislature, we had the opportunity to talk to all the parties who were willing to do so about the top-level sport and the contributions they have to make. We were prepared to do so. There has been an effective working group in which we have put forward a number of proposals, but it is true that when the Vivaldi government was formed the majority ranks closed and the will to cooperate with us was nonexistent. Then all we can do is take note of that. However, you must not give the impression here that we have never made proposals. We've been part of a working group until the moment you felt it necessary to exclude us from it. That's your responsibility, not ours. We have always been prepared to cooperate and have done so very actively, as long as we were given the opportunity to do so. We have made proposals. You should not try to suggest otherwise, Mr Vandenbroucke. The truth has its rights, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u58	That seems to be a common case. First they say we can't come in, then they say it's a shame we didn't come in. I come to the wide-ranging issue on which nothing has been said, the gap in the State of the Union. First of all, given the track record of your government over the past few months, you are no longer talking about political renewal. We've seen what came of that. You changed two letters. You have actually destroyed this politically, democratically. You have considered it wise not to use that word in this State of the Union, but you have shown realism. That is right, because you could not have said much about it. So that was rightly not mentioned. The fight against fake news is no longer mentioned either. I hope you will stand on the side of free speech in that respect, but I see Mr Van Quickenborne frowning on his sheriff's brows. He probably thinks, "You don't think I'm gonna prosecute people." Then you've been out of line, I won't miss that opportunity. It certainly didn't end up in the State of the Union anymore. I wonder if Mr Van Quickenborne will try to shut us up after all. The fitnote doesn't appear in it. He was killed. Even the idea of a fitnote is not in it, at best there is something in it that might look like it in the distance, when the social partners find agreement. This is an interesting fact in the State of the Union and in the texts, when the social partners find some similarities, things will be done. I think Mr Van Quickenborne said yesterday on television, with his distinctiveness, that if the social partners fail to reach agreement, the government will decide. That would be something new that the government would then decide. Because he does exhibit that greatness when the cameras are running, but one does not exhibit it in the policy. We do not see anything of this kind, because, of course, only social agreements can be confirmed when the classic bag of money is added to it, the lubrication oil of any social agreement. Madam President, Mr Lachaert is asking for the floor because he is likely to confirm what I am saying here. I am actually saying what he has been saying for years, namely that social agreements are usually at the expense of the Treasury. In that we were always allies, Mr Lachaert, I suspect you still are.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u59	Mr De Roover, you are throwing a lot of things at us. It was a very good interview of colleague Van Quickenborne yesterday in TerZake. When it comes to the labour market, it is logical to talk to the social partners, that is only normal. Eventually, they have to do it. There are a lot of things in the whole menu on the labour market that the regions will be able to do. This will be a very good thing for Mr Crevits and the Flemish Government. Many of the questions raised by the Flemish Government are addressed. The federal part was indeed chosen as a method - and this is not a bad method - to first consult with the social dialogue when it comes to flexibility in the workplace, about creating autonomy, about allowing people to organize more time of their own. It must then be a constructive consultation. This avoids a lot of clashes and a lot of fighting and also prevents decisions from being implemented in the end. We know that from the previous government. We were sometimes very ambitious, had a clash and eventually nothing came of it. You threw two cases at a pile. You are talking about the labour market and Mr Van Quickenborne's comment yesterday, on the one hand, and the disability on the other. That's what you started with first. It is not a theoretical and limited story, because Mr Vandenbroucke's plan is a very clear commitment and it has nothing to do with the social partners. Besides a sick note, we're looking at what people can still do and we're judging that. Employees who are absent for 10 weeks due to incapacity for work will be helped by people actively accompanying them. They'll have to write down what they can do. Call it a fit note or something else, but it is a document in which we record what employees can still do and we will guide them in a positive way to work that they can still do. That commitment is not vague, but very concrete. There are also clear budgets on this and clear sanction mechanisms for those who do not want to do so. I don't think I've ever seen a plan of such ambition to move forward from a health minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u60	Mr Lachaert, as I have just said, when you talk about the piece of symbolism, you can find in it notes of the symphony, again under the motto 'we have ambition, but not the force of action'. That responsive, which you are talking about, is particularly thin in all parts. One really needs to be voluntaristic in order to believe that the response will fundamentally bring a change and will actually lead to what we want, namely an increased employment rate. I have my reasonable doubts about that, but the future will have to prove that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u61	Mr De Roover, I would like to take the word symbolism you have just used. The Flemish Government has applied for 29 measures at federal level, to compensate. Our federal government agreement already stated, before that question was asked, that we intend to respond to the regions so that they can tailor their policies and respond effectively to the important socio-economic differences in our country. One of these measures, also very explicitly and rightly requested by the Flemish Government, is the reintegration of workers who are partially or completely disabled. The Flemish government, with the Flemish administration, has prepared its notes very well. The notes on this measure state, among other things, that it should be possible, in Flanders alone, to start at least 10,000 reintegration pathways by 2023. You call that symbolism? In addition, many other measures are in force. Years ago, we said the tax-shift jobs paid off. Well, we are taking care of that now, although not in the same grand order, but of an important size. Our measures provide jobs and are therefore more than just symbolic. Many other regional measures are being asked by the Flemish Government, to which we respond and which will always provide jobs. Those aren't words, they're deeds. To use your terms, that's impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u62	Mr De Roover, you are talking, first of all, about symbolism, but in the speech I will make later, I will show that all the decisions of the Vivaldi government are not symbolic at all. However, I wonder how you manage to push further to the right. You're talking about sanctions. I don't think you know how much compensation a long-term sick person gets on average these days. No one here knows that. It's 900 euros. The sanctioning means that 2.5 % is withheld if someone does not want to cooperate. That 2.5 % makes the difference between one or two days of eating or not for those concerned. With N-VA, you call that a symbolic measure. How dare you? Moreover, under the Swedish Government, you yourself have not dared to implement this measure. Now that she's on the table, you're suing that it's just symbolism. Secondly, you mention social dialogue. However, there is no social dialogue at all. In that sense, Minister Van Quickenborne gave a very good interview yesterday, at least very clearly, without pseudo-answers or fuss about the State of the Union, but with clear statements on the substance. It can be confirmed that after six months of social dialogue, all these issues such as four-day week, e-commerce and so on will automatically come back to the government and the government will decide. (A member says clearly but without micro "No") We, the working people, know what that means, Vivaldi who's making a decision. 0.4% of the wage standard is given when the government makes the decision after social consultation. Mr De Roover, there will be no social dialogue. If the patronage knows after six months that Vivaldi is going to make a decision anyway, the same thing is happening with the wage standard. Stop your fake news. There will be no social consultation here, and you will go even more to the right. It is unbelievable how the N-VA no longer has any contact with the working people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u63	Mr Verherstraeten and Mr Lachaert have repeatedly referred to this labour market policy package. On everything that could be somewhat activating and contained in it, apart from the fact that there are no fundamental reforms in it, and on everything that is requested by the Flemish Government, the agreement now before us states that it will not be decided now, that it will be passed on to the social partners, or that it will be discussed again. Why is there still a need to discuss 29 clear questions that the Flemish Government and Mrs Crevits, as Minister of Work months ago, have put to this federal government? The message that Mrs Crevits gets from this federal government is that she will talk about it again. So that's not really gonna happen. This federal government is laughing at Mrs Crevits, and thus the Flemish government, in her face. To knock you on the chest that there is everything in it....For the first to the last measure that can be active in this agreement, it has been decided not to decide now but to talk about it with the social partners, who have to figure it out, or there will be another chat with the regional authorities. So nothing has been decided today. However, a number of other parties have ensured that all that has to do with additional expenditure is continued in full. That is decided today. That's a big discrepancy. The only thing that could be activating here is pure symbolism. If someone receives a sickness benefit of 900 euros and refuses to fill out a form after 2.5 months, 18 euros will be deducted. With a payment of 1,600 euros, 40 euros will be reduced. If you do not want to fill out the form, why fill out the form for EUR 18 and go to work? This is pure symbolism. The principle is justifiable, but its implementation is meaningless at least as it has been announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u64	Madam President, I would like to invite Mr Anseeeuw to take a closer look at the measures that have been taken and which have been decided, regardless of the social dialogue. Then you will see that the newly mentioned reintegration has been mentioned. Decisions have also been taken, for example, on exemptions from the availability of training courses, or harmonisation of the RSZ statute in tailor-made companies. So a lot of decisions have been made. They will provide jobs and be a win-win situation for both the people and the regional level and the federal level. That's how politics is supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u65	Madam President, I regret that there is always talk of symbolism. The measures that have been decided on are measures for people with disabilities who sometimes really want to work. However, they do not dare to take the risk because they may not be able to handle it. They want to test it, but then they risk losing their benefit. Very concrete measures have been taken to give these people new opportunities, to test them, without being immediately punished with a lower income. The same applies to long-term sick people. I personally know people who, after a cancer treatment, beg to get back to work. Only they have to call a hundred songs themselves to find out how that actually works. There is a finished plan ready to coach and guide them so they don't have to worry about that. They will be coached so that they can get back to work at their pace. What is the symbolism of this if we can actually help people on the road?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u66	I think that Mr Anseeeuw has just summarized everything very well. As the relative center wing of this government, you have been given a number of intentions in the agreement and the concrete agreements have been given the left-hand side of the agreement. That is the story of the State of the Union and of this budgetary exercise. Then it remains poor and vague when we talk about an activation policy, but we are, of course, waiting for the figures. The proof of the pudding is in the eating. So we'll see what's actually coming out of the bus. So far, at least as far as job creation is concerned, the rapid revival of the world economy is an ally. Lucky for all of us. We should be grateful for the economic situation, because the part of your action on top of it is insignificant. In your policy statement, you are strangely not talking about pensions. You've been a naughty man, Minister Lalieux, and you're getting pissed off. On September 1st, you did what you announced. You said you'd come up with a retirement plan and surprised friend and enemy with it. However, Mr Lachaert had seen it coming and thought he would take a shot at the bow. Furthermore, it remained silent. The Prime Minister said it was for the fall. In the meantime, it is October, but there is no mention of it in the State of the Union. At least that's striking. In conclusion, I do not know whether it has shown much tact to insult an ally and important trading partner such as Britain. I think you should have mastered that resentment in this one. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a State of the Union which, in my view, can contribute mainly to our energy debate in terms of the amount of wind that comes out. If we have heard the coalition agreement read out last year and we see that you are producing so much wind again today, it will prove renewable. If you do that again next year, I do not know whether in that way the word "K" will have an impact on it. In all seriousness, your policy of the past year is characterized by pro-inactivity. Corona policy has taken all the attention away. For obvious reasons, all the media have focused day in and day out on corona policy, but this has not brought under the skin how the left side has scored outside the spotlights of media and public opinion in terms of inactivity measures. A few months ago, I had a debate in relation to Mr Lachaert, who was still in quarantine at the time. He then said: "It is true, until now it has been about this, but from now on the other hatch must be cut. Well, it won't be this time. The active citizen, who also actively pays for social security today, also pays the bill of your budget exercise. The difference with the budget on the Flemish side is very large: no pastry, no nightly hassle, not even pancakes, but a path to budgetary orthodoxy without the middle class having to bleed. That means, Prime Minister, that CD&V and Open Vld are indeed able to pursue a serious policy, just not in this House with the brick that we should call PS to its sole. Because it leads to immobilization and, in your case, to a lack of leadership to go with this country in a direction that is desperately needed. I fear that this will also be the case for the rest of this reign, because you have not managed to restart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u67	It's five to twelve. Are we gonna go through with this? I'm just asking. I'd like to continue. The next speaker is the Ecolo-Groen Group for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u68	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a little more than a year ago, in the decorum of the European Parliament, I began my speech with the following words: "We are living an important moment, with the establishment of this government, because our country is going through the most serious crisis since the Second World War at the health, social and economic level." Twelve months later, we can say that, gradually, we are busy getting out of this health crisis and embarking on a major social and economic redeployment. This incredible collective effort was realized at the cost of the extraordinary courage of all caregivers. And I wanted to salute the Prime Minister for reminding him yesterday too and for applauding, quite rightly, all the front-line caregivers. Also at the price of an unprecedented mobilisation around vaccination, at the price of unprecedented budgetary choices, assumed, in order to support the most disadvantaged of society but also those who have seen their professional activity collapse. Finally, at the price of unwavering solidarity between citizens, between generations, regardless of their mother tongue, whatever their region. In parallel to these colossal challenges of public administration, this Vivaldi government has also managed to complete long-awaited structural reforms: the increase in the minimum wage, effective from next April (70 euros gross per month), the introduction of taxation on securities accounts, the refinancing of the justice system, the prolongation of the birth leave or the strengthening of the status of artist. Yes, this Vivaldi coalition has put into practice in a year a significant number of swinging measures, contained in the government agreement, and we welcome that. The past few months have also been marked by terrible floods that have hit the country hard, a direct consequence of climate change. While, once again, exemplary solidarity has developed among our fellow citizens, many questions remain. Responses have yet to be provided, out of respect for the victims and for the populations concerned. The work must therefore continue at the level of government and Parliament. Our group will pay particular attention to this. It is a strong commitment that I wish to make here today. No victim, direct or indirect, will be forgotten or left behind. The fight against climate change is indeed the challenge of this century. As you said, Prime Minister, this is indeed a matter of life or death. Last Friday, with the Council of Ministers dedicated to climate, this Vivaldi coalition has moved, in one year, from the greenest government in Belgium's history to a true "climate government": reduction of CO2 emissions from the federal level to 233 million tonnes by 2030, creation of a true climate Ocam center in order to anticipate the risks and threats and monitoring of the action of each minister through the establishment of a real CO2 budget. In particular, a report will be made to Parliament every six months. It's new! In concrete terms, increases and reductions in CO2 emissions can be seen in each department. This is a great first in the history of our country. Dear members of the government, this means that next to Minister Zakia Khattabi and Prime Minister, you will all be ministers in charge of the climate. Yes, the fight against climate change requires finance, social affairs, the economy, justice and employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u69	Dear colleague, you were obviously expected on the issue of climate, in your capacity as an environmentalist and in view of last Sunday's event, which brought together more than 50,000 participants. But when we read Mr. De Croo, apart from the very correct observation that the climate represents a matter of life or death, the rest is rather perlimpin powder and nothing very concrete. You referred to the 35 measures in Mrs. Khattabi's plan. It's very vague. There is no budget for that. The impact of these measures on the reduction of CO2 emissions is unknown. But above all, you promise a billion investments for the climate transition in three years, while according to the calculations of the administration itself, it would take 50 billion a year - public/private. I hope you don't count on 49 billion from the private sector. I haven't seen any reaction from Inter-Environnement Wallonie (IEW) but I'm going to quote Bond Beer Leefmilieu's reaction. I quote the Bond's response to the Better Environment: "Although the federal government is taking new steps, the major upheaval remains. With this agreement, the government is abandoning opportunities for faster greening of the economy. Thirteen billion fossil subsidies remain untouched." You intend to invest $1 billion over a three-year period (including digitalization). It takes 50 billion and you continue to subsidize the fossil sector to the tune of 13 billion euros, not to mention the new gas-fired power plants, which was mentioned earlier. I don't understand how you're going to make progress. Even today, the International Energy Agency (IEA) has said that we are going straight into the wall with regard to CO2 emissions, that they are increasing and that we are going to be 2.6 degrees higher when you know that we have to limit it to 1.5 degrees. Your government (or your ministers) always asserts that it is based on science. But it says that we need a 65% reduction in CO2 emissions and you only stick to 55%. Finally, you were talking about this famous climate OCAT. You promised you'd go to Glasgow in a few days with a national plan. In this country, we have four climate ministers. What's your status? The National Climate Commission is a completely obscure thing, of which we do not know everything, which does not work. In 2013, recommendations for improving its functioning had been made and nothing resulted from it. Moreover, on this subject, Le Soir said yesterday or the day before yesterday: "The marchers for the climate are calling, the political authorities are always fighting". Where are you, then, so that, with a constitutional amendment, climate policy can be re-federalized or taken over in a central way, and we can stop with these chamilleries, which, if I remember correctly, took eight years to draw up a National Energy-Climate Plan? As long as this is not solved, yes, you sell us perlimpinpin powder!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u70	Mr. Warmoes, I am delighted that you are asking so many questions about climate issues. I will try to answer it very concretely. The Council of Ministers met to specifically discuss the climate last Friday, which is a first – I imagine that did not escape you. Moreover, the announcements I have just referred to have never been more ambitious. Of course, it can always be considered that this is not enough. In fact, as an environmentalist, I believe that we need to redouble our efforts on climate issues. However, we are talking about 233 million tonnes of CO2 less by 2030 at the federal level. As you said, there are also 12 to 13 million grants per year in the federal budget. As the Minister of the Environment has said, the objective is to achieve a phasing out to gradually emerge from all these subsidies. This will, of course, make it possible to emit less CO2. There is also the action taken to support businesses and entrepreneurial projects with the SFPI which will have a real investment grid in relation to climate objectives. In other words, we will no longer support the carbon economy, fossil fuels. We are going to be part of a completely different logic of disinvesting in these and, above all, investing in the transition, in industries that choose to reduce CO2 emissions, which also helps to create skills and jobs. It is all these actions that will be put in place. There is also investment in rail, in the train, in SNCB, which is good for the climate and the environment. In short, there is a whole series of concrete measures. You may not want to see them, but they do exist. They are in all portfolios (Finance, Employment, Social Affairs, etc.).). That is the issue here. It is a matter of carrying out a cross-cutting policy. We want every minister to be a climate minister. This is a shift from the past. The will is to have a climate government that takes climate issues into account at their fair value.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u71	Thank you for your explanation. However, that remains words. We would like action. Do you know we don't have time? You want to reduce CO2 emissions by 55%, but they should be reduced by 65% by 2030. It's almost tomorrow. You come with beautiful words, but what are the concrete actions? Let's take an example. You say you're going to reduce the subsidies to the fossil sector. Yes, you're going to cut professional diesel subsidies by 50 million. I told you we were talking about 13 billion subsidies. There is the famous resolution on COP26. The PTB has proposed an amendment to stop exploring new fossil energy sources and exploiting new oil and gas fields. And your party voted against it! How can we understand that we say we want to be carbon neutral in 2050, that we say we want to cut our emissions in 2030 by 55%, and at the same time allow hundreds of billions of investments in new oil fields? This is crazy! You say we're disinvesting in the fossil sector, but no! With CRM, you're going to subsidize gas-fired power plants again. It's not for nothing that disappointed climate activists occupied your premises on Monday, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u72	I've given you a whole series of figures, a clear plan of action. The decisions date from the budget conclave, 24 hours ago, and from last Friday's Climate Council of Ministers. We have a climate budget in place. The action plan has never been more ambitious. The figures I have quoted have never been so important. The direction is clear. Above all, there is an accountability of this government in CO2 equivalent! This means that in three months' time, in four months' time, in six months' time, we can be in the Finance Committee, in the Social Affairs Committee, in the Economy Committee to ask for an account in terms of CO2. This never happened! We can still want more. I'm the first one to want more but when there's a switchover, you have to be able to recognize it! I'll keep going. For us, a climate government is also a government that protects the most vulnerable in our society, leaving no one on the verge of a just transition. This means that every euro recovered through climate measures must be fully redistributed to our fellow citizens, especially the most fragile of them. The best example of this fair transition is the introduction of the energy tariff by Minister Van der Straeten and its extension in the first quarter of 2022. This is a real cause of satisfaction for our group. Nearly 900,000 families, nearly 2 million citizens will be able to benefit from it to protect themselves from the sharp rise in energy prices. At the same time, we continue to invest in renewable energy, which is also the best protection against fluctuations in energy prices. They are true ecologist markers of which we are proud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u73	Mr Vanden Burre, I heard you on the social rate. On the one hand, can you confirm that even for this tariff, the estimates are based on an increase of around 300 euros per year, per family? We'd be offering a discount of 80 euros. Can you confirm that even for the social rate, we will have an increase of 200 to 250 euros per household? On the other hand, what have you planned for the other 80%? There's an inter-side vacuum for them. The 700 to 800 euros per year do not concern only the poorest 20%! It's huge, even for families with two wages! How come you didn't plan for them? You're talking about social redistribution, but there's no provision for energy. It's like the 50 euros announced via excise duty. But this amount is derisory compared to 800 euros. I do not understand that the environmental party has failed to obtain a measure to help what is now called the "middle class", that is, the world of work in the broad sense of the term
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u74	The social tariff measure will affect almost 900,000 families – 2 million citizens – in which there are workers! Minister Van der Straeten cited a few examples earlier. A single woman with two children who earns around 1,800 euros gross per month will benefit from the social rate. And I look forward to it as an environmentalist. We want to target families who are recipients of social benefits, but also those who work and who are experiencing difficulties in the face of an increase in the energy bill. We are not 300 euros a year but rather around 800 euros of aid with the social tariff, which was set up last February and is extended. In addition, during the budgetary conclave, it was decided to grant an additional EUR 80. That is the total aid that has been set up and which affects one fifth of our population. Additional structural measures have been announced by Minister Van der Straeten, such as the reform of excise duties on energy prices, which will allow families to earn between 30 and 50 euros on the energy bill. A series of measures is therefore targeted at the most vulnerable audiences but also to the least-earning workers. As ecologists, we look forward to it. He's a real environmental marker of last night's decision. For us, it is the fairest and most targeted measure that exists and I hope that you will support it when we discuss it in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u75	Madam President, I am not going to argue too long. Of course, we will support the enlargement of the social tariff. I just think that the lack of an answer... I note that the government agreement contains nothing, but really nothing, in favour of workers whose incomes will be in the tranche greater than €1,550-1,600 per month. There is no provision for this social tariff! As for the advantage of 800 euros, don't make too much fun of people! This is 800 euros compared to what they should pay at market prices. But they will not benefit from a reduction of 800 euros, strictly speaking. Their bill will still amount to an additional 200 or 300 euros per year. You mustn't make fun of people either! Do you understand? Therefore, the reduction is calculated in relation to what they should pay at market price. On this side, it cannot be denied that the average bills of people at the social rate will rise for the coming year? Can the minister overturn it? Or can someone in this House tell me that average bills will not increase for the coming year?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u76	The question is, therefore, whether this measure is socially jute. Yes, it is socially just because it targets people who are most in need, among whom are people who work. There are also other measures. As you know, Mrs Fonck, a budget is part of a whole. Other measures taken during the budget conclave are aimed at helping those you believe to be middle class. We can discuss the thresholds of redistribution, tax justice in other taxes. But we're acting and targeting to protect. Indeed, to answer your question, Mr Hedebouw, we are going to protect people from this price increase. That is the aim of the social tariff. The focus here is on targeting and protecting those who need it most. In addition, further measures will be taken for the benefit of the population as a whole. I do not know whether your proposal aims to extend the social rate to the whole of it. But as far as we are concerned, other measures have been envisaged, such as the introduction of excise duties and a reduction in the tax on low and medium wages. But the extended social tariff responds to the urgency and the need to protect those who need it most.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u77	Mr Vanden Burre, there are a few questions to ask about the way this system works. You may take a measure for the very weakest, but you do not necessarily do anything for all the socially weak. There is a large group of people who are not eligible for this. As soon as one starts working, one is very easily above that threshold and one is actually eligible for nothing. That was mentioned here a moment ago. Then the question is what exactly do you do for that group? There is a small post in the budget of EUR 16 million to do something for the group that is just outside. But if one divides this between these people, then at the end of the ride there is almost nothing left. Secondly, we know that the basic social rate has a cost. It has already been pointed out in the past that this could cost EUR 100 million more, just as the extended social tariff is also about 100 million more expensive than estimated. In what way do you ensure that the 100 million euros are not paid by the 80 % others who cannot avail themselves of the social rate? Thirdly, you are talking about an advantage of around EUR 800 on an annual basis. On what basis did you calculate that? As I see the figures, there will be between 8 % and 10 % for gas and electricity every quarter. In other words, according to the CREG calculations, the social tariff will continue to rise every quarter, certainly until mid 2022. Can you explain to me how this is going to work and how you calculated the case? This means that the social tariff will continue to rise for some time at a time when prices on the market are already starting to fall. That is why I would have liked to have heard from you what measures you provide for those who, at the end of the journey, threaten to pay everything, especially those who are not eligible for the social tariff, are going to work, pay taxes and also see their electricity bills go up. I would therefore like to clarify this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u78	Mr Vanden Burre, I have a question. I understand, of course, that the energy debate is an eventful debate because prices are so high. This is not only due to Belgian policy, it is an issue everywhere. I was in Lisbon last weekend, and even in Portugal that is an issue, although it is still quite good weather there. I certainly understand that the government is trying to make a choice. She can't afford everything. This is indeed a difficult debate. But what is living strongly, especially in Flanders, but it probably won't be any different in Wallonia, is the question why more people are not eligible for serious intervention? That is, of course, the essence of the debate. You say that there are working people who are eligible for this one-off premium of EUR 80 and that rate is up to EUR 800. That still needs to be looked at. I doubt that. I did some research on the ten only paid jobs in Belgium. The only paid jobs in Belgium are hairdresser and beauty specialist. They earn an average of 2.046 euros gross per month. Your rate applies to 1,650 euros gross per month. Anyone who earns less than EUR 1,650 per month, through a benefit or possibly through part-time work, may be eligible, without dependent children. That's true. Look it up. It's on your own website. The worst paid jobs, beauty specialists or hairdressers working full-time, without dependent children, are therefore not eligible for that one-off premium of 80 euros, and are not eligible for that particular social intervention on energy. So, there's no one working full-time who's eligible for this. That is, of course, a problem. The emotion is therefore very strong at the moment when one says: the middle class has to pay. But in the middle class, there's a lot of difference. There are people who have two principal functions. They think they're middle class, too. But a regular cashier, or a hairdresser, someone who cleans, who doesn't qualify for that extra social rate if she works full-time. That's something you need to clear up, because that's what's being told here. I would like to know how such a person could qualify for your social rate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u79	Madam President, I do not understand very well a number of reactions. The government is making a clear choice, namely a choice for a million families who are struggling most today in our country. The government wants structural intervention for that category. Mr Hedebouw, you are talking about EUR 800 below the market price as if that is not a substantial amount. Of course it is below the market price, but you must also admit, on the other hand, that the increase in gas prices is not the debt of the current government. There is nothing we can do about that, but we are trying to respond to it. It is important to ask why it is so essential to make extra use of that target group. We had two basic principles. First of all, the government should not earn from the additional revenue from VAT. Secondly, why is it so important to bet on those families? That's because it's often those families that are the least able to arm themselves against the price increases. It is those families who live in poorly isolated rental homes and have absolutely no budget, to do something about the invoice year after year. After all, what is the best solution? That's isolating the apartment. The social rate is a relief and protection. However, the best solution is to isolate. Mr Francken, I apologise for noticing, but I heard your group leader earlier. He suggested that renovations be done in Flanders. Less than one percent of the homes in Flanders are being renovated today, although it has always been pointed out that we need at least three percent. Now that's less than one percent. So we are definitely not getting there. However, that is essential in the story. What is absolutely ignored is the element of consumer protection, which is extremely important. I pointed it out earlier. The agreement contains many points, such as fixed remuneration or variable contracts, which apply to 80% of families. Protecting people from complex invoices or practices of energy suppliers accounts for 80% of families. Why is Test Purchase so satisfied with the agreement? That is precisely because we also need to protect these families from practices in the energy market today that make people pay far too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u80	Madam President, what amazes me a little in this debate is the ability of some colleagues to divide matters, as if there were no corrective mechanisms in our country, such as the indexation of wages, allowances and pensions, which means that, when life becomes more expensive, there are income correction mechanisms. It is a first element that I think it is important to integrate into the reflection. A second element is that, when life becomes expensive, it is sometimes for reasons that are alien to the policies that are carried out by the public authorities at any level. We don't live on an island. We live in an international environment that is known to be so unstable at times. So we need to think about it so that we can deal with these hazards. In particular, this involves income policy, wage formation policy. We saw the previous interprofessional agreement on minimum wages. There is the question of the tax debate. As we know, there are no 36 ways to raise incomes: either we increase wages or we reduce social contributions, but then we have to say how we finance social security, or we cut taxes, but then we have to say how we finance tax reform. It is this debate that we should have here in Parliament, as soon as possible. The Minister of Finance has shown all his availability, but then we have to be on the right side. You have to tell people how we're going to find the money to finance all this. Those who complain today and say that we are not doing enough for the middle class must therefore tell us where to find the money. And that's obviously where the masks are going to fall. Indeed, considering that tax reforms or reductions in social contributions are going to be financed by undermining social protections and public services, it is precisely against the middle class. It is this debate that we must have in Parliament rather than fragmenting the debate by taking a measure and isolating it from its context.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u81	Madam President, we can have the debate at the cutting edge. That is acceptable if the facts are correct. Let us return to the factual context. For the social tariff there is a scheme for which persons are eligible on the basis of statutes. In February of this year, the government decided to expand the target group on the basis of income. We apply the rules on increased compensation for this. It is not just about benefit recipients, but also about working people. It can always be reduced to the lowest, but it must be said that the income limits set are also increased by the child burden. I have a very uncomfortable feeling. In fact, it is argued, even by Mr De Roover, that people no longer need to look for work. They're just people with benefits. Work integrates. There are people today who work full-time with low incomes and who are faced with the high price increases. We are helping those people with the extension of the social tariff. Mr Wollants, we can and will all answer your technical questions. We will have another debate on this later today, perhaps tonight. Then we can go into that in detail, because what you are saying is also wrong. The costs do not appear on the invoice. We're done with our work because we're doing it structuralally. Minister Van Peteghem's excise reform is combined with the expertise of energy. Bring both elements together. No one has any lessons. Our joint responsibility in Parliament as legislators is to conduct policies. That is not to organise competition between those who are having a hard time and those who are having a hard time. That's why we act purposefully and structurally. I am counting on your support for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u82	Mrs van der Straeten, you talk about the facts time and time again. You're a lady of the facts and the opposition is constantly selling nonsense, you say. I would like to refer to the threshold on the basis of which you are entitled to the extensive social benefits you have introduced. Is it true that that is 19,892 euros gross a year? I read that on your website. Is that wrong? Does that need to be adjusted? Is the amount of 3,682 euros per year per dependent person?I give an example of a single mother working full-time as a hairdresser or in a supermarket with two dependent children. Will she then meet your social rate, Madam Secretary? That's a very simple question, isn't it? You insist that the scheme also refers to workers and argues that what I am saying is not correct and that I should stop doing so, since there are workers who are eligible for the scheme. Then I'd like to get an answer. I don't think a full-time hairdresser is eligible. If she's got two dependents, it'll be close. If she works at the supermarket, she's not eligible if she has a guy who works too, especially not. What if the guy's brushing? Then he's not eligible. It's not about the big pay. It is argued that they still enjoy the advantage of indexation, but that is true for everyone. The question is how to make working more rewarding. The government has the ambition to create 43,000 jobs a year. I hear from Mr Lachaert that the 43 000 jobs will be achieved with the most ambitious activation and labour market policies ever. One will even deal with the long-term sick. That is what Mr Lachaert says. It is said that the labour market activation package is incredibly ambitious. We have created 63,000 jobs a year with the Swedish Government under Charles Michel. That is half more than Mr De Croo's ambition. If your package is so much better than the Swedish package, why don't you set the bar on 63,000 jobs or maybe 70,000 jobs a year? If it's such a fantastic package, why don't you aim higher? Why is your job ambition so low, if you are so much more activating? My point is this. The essence is how we get more people to work. That's the essence. This means that we need to deepen the gap between working and not working, not by throwing people who are not working into poverty, but by encouraging people who work more, and thus giving more. Wage is an essential point there. If there is another one-off premium, if there is another rate with an advantage of up to EUR 800 for those who do not work above all, then I have a problem with that. After all, I wonder how this rate of activity of 80% will be achieved by 2030. That's what we're all, I hope, for. If I agree with one thing and I agree with many more things - it is that working takes people out of isolation. Working is something we all want to encourage. That brings people out of social isolation and gives more pride and self-esteem, to say it in beautiful Dutch.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u83	Madam Secretary, how many times have I asked you this question? The President: The question should be addressed to the speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u84	Mr Vanden Burre did not answer me either; the Minister replied to me. The President: He has not yet had the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u85	Either Mr Vanden Burre responds or Madam Secretary, but I would like to respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u86	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u87	Mr Vanden Burre, the Minister says that what I am saying is factually incorrect, but you were also present in plenary when I asked twice how it will be settled. According to the current rules, which have not yet been changed, the basic social tariff is included in the federal contribution and this is indeed paid by those who have electricity and gas invoices. I can only conclude with you that the Minister repeatedly refused to answer my questions, but here now says he can refute all of this. Then why has she waited a month to do that? I would very much like to have the right explanation as to how it will be done, because there is nothing to be found in the notifications or in the Minister's answers. If that is not clear, if it is not on the table, then people will pay it, and I hope that we will finally get the right answer from the Minister on 13 October - or 14 or 15 October, which depends on how long we will last on this game. You can help me to do that by pressing for it so that it does not interrupt unjustly anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u88	Madam President, this is a response to Mr Francken, but I would like to put a question to Mr Vanden Burre. I would like to ask Mr Vanden Burre whether he thinks it is so funny and surprising that the N-VA is trying to cast itself as the social conscience. If we are talking about facts, first of all, this federal government is putting EUR 760 million on the table to lower the energy bill. We are doing this and we are doing it especially for those who need it most. Other governments in this country can draw lessons from this. Secondly, the automatic wage indexation that exists in this country provides protection, including against rising energy prices. Wages are indexed. If I remember correctly, it is the N-VA that wants to abolish automatic wage indexation. Mr Francken, colleagues in the N-VA, you stand up as the social conscience and say that the government is not doing enough to reduce the energy bill, but if we follow your plans and abolish automatic wage indexation, then all people will feel it in their wallets at the end of the month. So if we implement your plans, it's gonna look a lot worse for everyone. So I hope, Mr Franken, that we can put your plans aside and follow what this government is putting on the table: EUR 716 million to reduce the energy bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u89	However, a factual correction. It is indeed our aim to give greater freedom to sectors in wage negotiations and why not? We are convinced that this is a way of achieving much better agreements. We must not give the impression that we want to take a piece of pay away from the people, that is not the case at all. It is really grotesque what Mr De Vriendt is trying to do here, and I think it is important to correct that. It is important that we have competitive sectors in our country and good wage agreements are important for that. More freedom will indeed lead to better agreements. Before the summer, when the ipa had to be negotiated, the trade unions also felt that they were in too strict a framework, they also wanted more freedom. But then Mr De Vriendt suddenly fell into a cramp and feared that that freedom might be used to improve a number of things in this country. Well, it is indeed our ambition to improve a number of things, such as the economy and employment, and also to strengthen people's wages. For make no mistake: the fight for more competitiveness is also a fight for better wages and more and better jobs for our people, for our people. It's nothing but that, so don't give us the impression that we want to take the money away from people, while you're just raising taxes with your tax administration, increasing spending and playing sintering class with money that's been gone for a long time. Stop pinning something on people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u90	To express myself and, of course, to respond in part in addition to what has already been said. On the part of the N-VA colleagues, I hear the desire to reward work, to increase the means for working families, in order to arm them in the face of rising energy prices. This government increases the minimum wage by 76 euros gross per month from next April, which has not been done since 2008! This government will lower the social security crisis contribution to enable low and middle wage earners to increase their purchasing power as well! And this government will enable all workers in this country to be trained by means of an individual right to training, in order to enable them to get back on the job market! Here's our recipes! Your income, on the other hand, is to exclude people from the unemployment benefit system, push them to CPAS and create poverty. I regret but I say "no thanks" to your lessons on the labour market and the prosperity of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u91	I think you are, of course, giving rise to reactions on the opposition benches, particularly at Mrs Van Peel, Mr Anseew, Mr Franken, Mr M. Van Lommel and Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u92	It always sounds good to play the big social face from the so-called progressive parties and to look at us as the great antisocial people. There's a huge difference between being social and being social. You'd better think about that. The only thing you're good at is the first thing. That means you're handing out something, you're paying off your social face, like you're getting people out of poverty with 50 euros a month more. That's your socialism. However, you do not take into account that in order to do that properly in the future a cake is needed, which you can take from. Creating that cake and really trying to get people out of their benefits is what you're failing at. That's being really social. Sounding is easy. You're saying you're gonna raise the benefit, but don't let people sit in it. Helping people, getting the maximum out of people and making sure that our social security stays affordable, that's really being social, and that's our policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u93	Mr Vanden Burre, it does sound good to say that this government has increased the lowest wages, the minimum wages. The N-VA also believes that people, especially those with the lowest wages, should be left with more. Over the last few months, in this hemisphere, there has been a great deal of support for employers to be able to show solidarity with workers so that they can survive. Why is it so difficult, as a government, to show solidarity with those employers and employees? This social struggle for better working conditions and better wages must be able to lead employers and workers shoulder to shoulder. When the government increases the minimum wages in such a way that the burden on labour increases and labour and jobs become more expensive again, you do no one a service. You ensure that just those jobs with the lowest wages for those people with the most vulnerable profiles in our labour market are first priced out of the market. That will prove to be the case in the future. People with the lowest wages certainly need to be left with more, but show solidarity as a government. Put a dime in the bag and stop working in this country making more expensive. That is what you are doing, and that is how you are not achieving what you are supposed to achieve. You sound social, but you're anything but.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u94	Madam President, Mr Vanden Burre, I too would like to respond briefly, because your Minister is asking all the time to be honest and to put the right facts on the table. Mr Vanden Burre, you say that limiting unemployment benefits in time would drive everyone to the OCMW, which is the classic left-wing discourse. That's not right. There is a lot of scientific research in this area, including the HIVA, which shows that one third of those involved disappear from statistics, find a third job and indeed knock on the door of the OMCW. So two-thirds don't. There is therefore no automatic link between limiting unemployment benefits over time and knocking on the OMCW's door. It is therefore absolutely wrong that, if unemployment benefits are to be paid tomorrow, everyone automatically goes to the OMCW. That is simply not true and is clearly incorrect. So let us use the facts. For the OCMW we can talk about better policies and energy cheques. That's what's gonna happen. For many years I have been trying to manage a small OCMW in a good way. That's not always obvious. I admit that. It's very often about deep human problems. However, you claim that when we tackle the duration of unemployment tomorrow, everyone must go to the OMCW. That's obviously not right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I hear the classic story of exclusion from the Greens and the Left in general. They're always so good at burying themselves in a victim story. But do you know what you've done? You exclude 80% of the population, which is faced with an extra 1,000 euros for gas and an extra 1,500 euros, which is 2,500 euros extra on a higher energy bill. You don't do anything for those people. After all, the only thing that happens is a handout of 30 to 35 euros a year. That is what you call structural measures. You have won the first prize. Do you really think people are crazy and they don't get it? Are you serious? Do you really believe that? Colleagues of the majority, I know that rising gas prices are a phenomenon that is happening throughout Europe and in the event of enlargement elsewhere in the world, given the economic remonte. However, it is very cheap, to always refer again to the isolation of homes, consumption and consumer protection. That is all true and I am in favour of it. However, I would like to see boldness and structural measures from you. I just don't see them today. However, I am reading an annual measure of EUR 30 to EUR 50 to which families who are currently unable to benefit from the social rate are entitled. You'll have to divide that amount by 12 months. Are you sure you don't think that's funny? Do you yourself believe that you can make it by waving such a small root? Come on, take yourself seriously. I also find it particularly disturbing that your Minister states in the press that not everyone needs a VAT reduction. Why don't you explain that to people at the cash register in the shop, to people who are just outside the social rate? You will not be told, because these people will have to pay up to EUR 2,500 extra for electricity and gas. But, yes, you think you can make them happy with 30 to 50 euros. What kind of debate are we having here? It's a play, albeit with a very bad ending for the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, politically speaking, I find this a very interesting moment. These talks show, after more than one and a half years of corona crisis, that the gravity of the political debate, the cultural hegemony, is pushing right into the defensive. Ever since this morning, I've seen the N-VA trying to sell itself as a somewhat social party. For two hours, the members of the N-VA have been proclaiming that they are social, but that does not, of course, seem credible to a party that has given itself a different profile for five years. One can hardly present himself as a supporter of the middle class if one has previously approved an index jump. Then it is difficult to claim to be'social'. Concerning energy, the N-VA has decided to raise the VAT to 21%. For the middle class, an increase in VAT on energy of 15% is simply lethal. All these decisions were made under the previous government. I therefore find it interesting to see how gravity in the debate moves towards left-wing themes and left-wing solutions. That is exactly the problem, Mr Vanden Burre. I'll say it in French. There is also a debate on indexation. I heard my socialist colleagues talk about the index. Let us remember, ladies and gentlemen, that petroleum products, such as petrol and diesel, are not in the index. It's not a detail. This means that not all pump increases are included in the index. This is still a decision of the Dehaene government. On this side, the correcting mechanism does not fully play its redistributive role, only on the contrary. That's the problem! That is why there was a debate about the possible adoption of additional energy measures today. It's not that I didn't understand the logic of offering a check for 100 euros. But the idea was to establish a mechanism for all workers. Indeed, a whole war of numbers can be waged here, but what is very clear is that the measures taken by the government concern the first two deciles. So, ladies and gentlemen, the political debate we have is on the third decile. Why doesn't he have anything? The political debate is that. We need to discuss this third decile. Who's in it? I'm going to tell you: bus drivers, metal workers... and I'm not even talking about companies where there's a real balance of power. They are all workers who will suffer up to 700 to 800 euros. Why did you give up this third decile? However, the measures on the table, such as the EUR 100 cheque and the VAT reduction of 21% to 6%, responded to this. I have already heard some of them, including eco-friendly ministers, reply to me by evoking the famous swimming pool that is being heated. Ecolo kept telling this. VAT has no redistributed role from a fiscal point of view. You know that very well. She has no role, but on the contrary! It's a tax that's unfair. If you want to make the rich pay, do not increase the VAT! If you want to make the rich pay, tax the millionaires, review the tax of natural persons. My colleague Laaouej is right in this regard. Take all other measures because VAT is a fundamentally unfair tax. I therefore do not understand the almost ideological resistance of the ecologists to the reduction of VAT from 21% to 6%. Such a crisis would have been an opportunity to reduce invoices by 15 per cent in order of magnitude. This measure seems to me to be elementary. This taxation amounts to taxation of basic necessities. You cannot justify that gas and electricity are not essential products. It's unjustifiable!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u97	Can we let Mr. Vanden Burre speak? Mr. Van Lommel has already intervened. Mrs Fonck has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u98	Mr Vanden Burre, you are making a political choice in favour of the most disadvantaged people. To simply take the example of a single-parent family, from what wage, from what gross income, will this single-parent family not be able to benefit in any way from assistance as you have provided it? Do you know that amount? I did the math. If I'm wrong, don't hesitate to pick me up. In a single-parent family, from an income of 2,370 euros, there will be no possibility to emerge at the social rate and with the additional help of 80 euros. That is the reality! Let us not justify it by saying that these people are not to be considered, that everything will go well for them and that there will be no concern! On the other hand, money does not fall from the sky; we must be able to finance the measures. The State will benefit greatly from the return of the increase in energy, in particular via VAT. This could have been broken down, not for aid of 600, 700 or 800 euros for all, but for income bands above the threshold you have set, which is very low compared to the explosion in energy prices today. As far as tax reform is concerned, work will have to be done on increasing net income and valuing work. In that regard, it was a pity that the tax reform was postponed to a later date. With regard to the special social security contribution that everyone, in the majority, puts forward – all of you have communicated about the 150 euros in addition – I note that the Prime Minister yesterday did not mention deletion since it will be "examined". It's very light! Moreover, there is a truth: the 150 euros in addition concern a couple with two incomes, but do not concern an isolated person or a single-parent family with a single income. Please, therefore, hold an honest speech in your sexy ads that you launch to the press!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u99	Madam President, I will try to respond to all the colleagues who have asked me and first of all to the colleagues of the N-VA (4 to 5 people), which I see, not as an honour, but as an interest in my remarks. More seriously, I think that Mrs Van Peel and Mr Franken wanted to say, through their remarks, that "it sounds good, it's slogans", that our visions of society are different. It seems to me that we must be able to accept it. Our vision of society as ecologists and yours as nationalists members of the N-VA are totally different and unlike each other. In democracy, this fact must be able to be assumed. I have no problem telling you and there is no harm in telling you. I think you are aware of this – I hope – through our speeches and our political actions. This means that the basis for the measures I have cited, which I do find to be wrong in relation to the workers and the fact that people are not given a sufficient chance to return to work or to train throughout their careers, is totally opposed in terms of the programme. I have just mentioned the measures that you have tabled in the Committee on Social Affairs or those in your programme. We have other measures that are also designed to create prosperity, but through the formation, encouragement and development of each other's talents without going through the "punition" box. It's a different vision of society. I want to say that in a democratic debate we must be able to say it in our eyes. It's important. We must take on this deeply different disagreement and societal visions between you and us. I'll take care of them. Who's gonna touch what? The general debate on the social energy tariff is somewhat concerned with this. We have largely responded to the objectives, budgetary costs and who will benefit from them. If one goes into the precise deciles classifying the population by salary, I would prefer to refer to the thematic debate earlier or to the debate in committee. I cannot answer the decile; I cannot tell you whether such a person will benefit from it. As the minister said, this was put in place by statute last February. The measure already exists and will be extended. But the objective is clear. On the other hand, it is not right to say that all the other people who are not affected by the social tariff are not going to get the decisions of yesterday's budgetary conclave. You can't say that! You spoke, Mrs Fonck, of the gradual reduction in this special social security contribution. There is also the introduction of the system of excise duties on energy prices. There is a whole series of things in place to reward and encourage people who work. This was done by targeting low and medium wages. To say that there is nothing is not correct either. I refer you to the more precise debate on the impact on a particular person or status. I would like to continue my speech by speaking about this climate government. It's been a fact since yesterday and since last Friday. Here are all the features we want to highlight. For us, a climate government is also a government that invests heavily in the future, and obviously as a priority in rail and SNCB. Of the billion additional investments that were decided yesterday in the budget conclave, one quarter, or 250 million, is devoted to railways. It is therefore more trains, more frequencies and stations, better punctuality, and strong partnerships with the industrial world. As the Minister of Mobility often repeats, a euro invested in the rail sector brings three euros to the company. What does that mean in practice? This means that investing in rail is good for the environment, for the economy and for employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u100	What is on the table is 250 million for three years, after years of billions of savings. Those 250 million are never going to be enough to make sure that we can invest seriously in the railways. That's peanuts as far as we're concerned. The Bergen station alone costs more than 250 million euros. Unbelievable! How will you then increase the train capacity by EUR 250 million? There is already an underfunding of Infrabel, which we discussed recently in committee. Infrabel himself says that they may have to delete lines because of lack of resources. Infrabel's staff can't take a vacation because there's a shortage of staff. There is currently a shortage of 100 staff. You don't think it takes any staff to run the trains? It takes 300 people to drive the trains. If you want the trains to run, then much more resources will be needed. I find it very disappointing that a minister of an ecological party does not invest much more in our railways. That would be good for our environment and for those 500 people who argued last weekend for more and better public transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u101	I am going to confide in you, dear colleague Vindevoghel: I expected this question a little bit from you and I had prepared myself for it. The figures are what they are; they are factual. I'll give them to you because I have them in front of my eyes. Since the beginning of the crisis, the additional aid for rail has amounted to a total of EUR 777.3 million. In addition to this, an additional €365 million was made available last year for investments, and the 250 million decided yesterday are actually added to this. Since the beginning of the Vivaldi, there has been almost €1.5 billion in additional investment in rail. It's a major changeover. Why do I say that? I compare with the past, Mrs. Vindevoghel. It seems to me objectively the most interesting thing to do. For ten years before the Vivaldi, more than 2 billion euros have been saved on the backs of railways and investment in rail. Here, we inject in addition 1.5 billion euros in just over a year. You should applaud us. This is a major shift in the policy of this country!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u102	It would have been a basculement if the investment had been larger. EUR 600 million is available from the EU, but only EUR 250 million is foreseen for rail in the next three years. That's far too little. You are absolutely right to say that billions have been saved by the previous government. However, there would only have been a basculement if there were much more resources available for the future of rail and for better mobility. In my view, EUR 250 million can never be enough to increase the number of trains and train passengers. It's far too little.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u103	You're free to think that's not enough. As ecologists, we are constantly fighting to get more money to finance the climate transition, but let's be fair on the numbers. This represents more than 1.5 billion euros since the beginning of Vivaldi.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u104	To reach a small budget council, I agree with Minister Gilkinet's statement that every euro invests is worth three euros. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the solution to Belgium's budgetary problems is important. I think if we'd invested a lot more, we'd have gotten a lot more in return. Let us be very clear about this, we are talking about investments. In your opinion, 250 million euros represent about 15 kilometres of rail. These are the orders of magnitude of the investments that must be made. But here, we are also talking about operating budgets. These include 100 fewer railway workers each month. It's a reality on the ground. Let us not confuse investment - the famous extraordinary budget - with the regular budget. In terms of operating costs, there are far too few resources dedicated to the railway. That is what many railway unions are complaining about today. The staff decreases while it is necessary for track maintenance, to accompany trains, etc. You are talking only about too few investments, as my colleague has said. But the railway is not just investment. It is also a matter of operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u105	A climate government is also a government that puts tax justice at the heart of its socio-economic vision by making the widest possible contribution - taxation on securities accounts or the contribution required of professional athletes, by putting in place additional means to combat tax fraud - it is a real scourge - as we have seen again with the Pandora Papers. I am thinking here of the announcement of the commitment of some 40 additional inspectors and by reducing the tax burden on low and medium wage earners. I've already talked about it. In a climate government, everyone is treated in the same way and receives his or her chance, regardless of their social condition, origins and sexual orientation. As such, our group welcomes the decision to increase the budget of the Equal Opportunities Unit by eight times, led by Secretary of State Sarah Schlitz. Climate, social and fiscal justice, national and international solidarity, equal opportunities, creation of sustainable jobs and investments in the future: these are the key values that drive us to believe in the projects of this Vivaldi coalition and to renew our confidence in it tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to turn to you to conclude this speech. I would like to express my political group's last strong commitment to DNA. This parliamentary year must be the year that sees citizens entering this Parliament, not to stay on the balcony and observe us, but to debate with us, to deliberate with us and also to vote with us in joint committees. It is a real imperative for us if we are to breathe new life into our democracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u106	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the first circle is complete, the first four seasons are over. We went from autumn to autumn. It is autumn and leaves fall, but what Mark Eyskens said 40 years ago, fortunately, does not apply today. This government stands there and clearly sets out new policies. They were and they're still times of crisis, but this government is doing whatever it takes. We have had the most serious health crisis in our country in recent decades. We have provided federal support for EUR 25 billion. We have even extended a number of aid measures, unlike, for example, the Flemish Government. A word of thanks is appropriate here. Thank you to all the caregivers and volunteers in our country who have double-plowed. Politically, too, our country is once again there, with a stable government that can rule with full authority. This sometimes requires compromises and strong, difficult negotiations. However, memory is short. The previous government was blown up for the UN migration agreement, resulting in a long period of standstill. This period of instability has taken too long, but it is finally over. Our country's back. Colleagues, the spirit is out of the bottle, no one can get around the climate crisis. The water is on our lips. Last summer's floods in our country have clearly demonstrated what awaits us if we do nothing. There were 41 deaths to be regretted. The ambition of this government is 100 % renewable energy. We owe it to our children and our grandchildren. We have had to wait for a government with the Greens to focus our sights on it, but our group is hopeful. With this government, the climate train has finally left the station. No more excuses. What does that mean in concrete terms? There will be an eco-shift, with €250 million for more and better trains, but with fair charges on professional diesel and a CO2 compensation for short-haul flights. That's a fair deal. Every euro we invest in the train brings in three euros for our economy and our society. That's a break with the past. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been treating the train stepmotherly for too long. This is a trend break we've secured. Last week, the government drew up a roadmap to reduce CO2 emissions by 233 million tonnes by 2030. We have even made an extra effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u107	Mr De Vriendt, you are knocking on your chest about the 250 million extra for the railways. I hear you say that one euro for rail means three euro for society. However, do you really know where that money should go? Will it go again to manning all station counters, a train in each station every ten minutes or to green balloons from the minister? After all, this EUR 250 million could have been used up very quickly, which is barely double the cost of a free Rail Pass, namely EUR 110 million. Such an amount has been lost quite quickly. Can you provide an insight into the precise use of these funds?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u108	Mr President, I do not know whether you listened to the debate just now, when my colleague was standing in the gallery. This is an additional budget of EUR 250 million, in addition to the amount of EUR 1.5 billion that this government is already investing in the train. It is therefore about more lines, better lines and better accessibility. These are subjects that have been dealt with in Parliament. This Vivaldi government therefore invests EUR 1.5 billion on the train. That is something to be proud of, Mr Roggeman. I do not recall that previous governments have done so much. The President: Mr De Vriendt, the Minister requests the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u109	Mr De Vriendt and Mr Roggeman, I can certainly answer your legitimate questions. These resources will be used, inter alia, for more accessible stations. That is very important if we want more people on the train, for a mother with a baby, for an old lady or for people with disabilities. We also want to strengthen our international lines. It is important that the capitals of the Benelux, Amsterdam, Brussels and Luxembourg are more closely linked. We must also get more goods on the train. One freight train means 50 trucks less on our roads. I visited the ports of Antwerp, Zeebrugge and Ghent, to see what the needs of the companies are and what we can do to get more goods on the train and support employment here in Belgium. That is what we are doing with these means. I am surprised that you are not in favour of this measure, as it will provide structural support for our economy. In the port of Ghent, companies work together in a logic of circular economy. That's the future. It's about tomorrow's jobs. We invest in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u110	Colleagues, the climate transition continues. We are doubling the wind energy at sea, we are launching new projects with hydrogen and solar panels, and we are doing so after the European revival plan and the greening of the payroll cars, the most important climate change measure of the past decade. I want to be honest with you, colleagues. For a government without climate ambition, Green and Ecolo had celebrated their thanks. A year ago, we demanded decisive action in the Egmont Palace in Brussels. Now the federal government is the leader. The Vivaldi government was the greenest government ever. Now we have the greenest budget ever. We're proud of that. Optimism is justified. There really is a common will to succeed here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u111	I'd like to hear you say, new hydrogen projects, but I do wonder where we'll get the energy, the electricity to produce hydrogen? For the time being, it is not possible to use green hydrogen. That's gotta be blue hydrogen. How will you do that? The CRM auction just ended. It is well known that the energy needs will continue to rise. You'll notice that you're going to bet on hydrogen, but then I have to replicate that you missed that hydrogen train. Look at the projects that are now being rolled out in the Netherlands, Germany and elsewhere. We are lagging behind in this respect. There will be a hydrogen backbone, but what will you do to produce hydrogen here? Now we depend on oil abroad. Is it intended that we will also depend on abroad for hydrogen in future? What's your vision on that? You're going to pride yourself on being an absolute climate government. I would also like to hear you say that, Mr De Vriendt. You also participated in the climate demonstration last weekend. I have just asked you about CO2 emissions from gas plants. Your fellow protesters are concerned about that, too. But you didn't answer that. You claim that you will drastically reduce CO2 while you are just blowing CO2 into the air due to the use of fossil fuels. Can you give me a good and clear answer? What do you say about the gas plants against the demonstrators who have walked in the climate march? Don't come up with the story that we have to import otherwise, and it costs a lot of money. The Minister has already said that green energy from abroad is cheap.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u112	Madam President, Mr De Vriendt, just a moment ago, you mentioned the airfare tax. I understand, of course, the logic with regard to chip jumping, I would say, less than 500 km. According to the information available to me, between 750 000 and 1 000 000 flights are covered by this tax measure. If I recall correctly the president of the MR reported an increase of five to six euros per plane ticket. However, if I refer to your budget tables, for 2022 there is a return effect in terms of tax returns of EUR 30 000 000 and EUR 40 000 000 for the following years. With an increase of five to six euros per plane ticket and less than one million flights, it is expected to be five to six million per year. What do we have to conclude? Does this mean that you have actually overflated the return on the tax question or does this mean that in reality it is an increase of 30 to 40 euros per plane ticket rather than five to six euros? Could you clarify this point?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u113	Madam President, I would like to wait a moment, but since Mrs Fonck is asking a fair question, I would like to take it now. Last summer, in Parliament, I thought unanimously - a resolution on the airport of Zaventem, the aviation industry and the airlines, co-signed by Mr Vanbesien, was adopted on a broad basis. The reason for the resolution was the intervention via FPIM in support of, among others, Brussels Airlines. I have had the honour and pleasure of discussing this with the current Prime Minister, then Minister of Finance. That was a very difficult period for our aviation. As a representative of Flemish Brabant, I would like to make a point about this. 30 to 40 million euros are entered in the tables as revenue from the flight tax. I don't understand. The beam is 500 km. What flights fall within that beam? These are Paris, London, Amsterdam and Frankfurt, Manchester, Hamburg and a few other small airports. Last year there were 660,000 flights from Zaventem at those four airports. They do not fly from other airports. You must have 30 million and there were 660,000 flights. This means that you have to charge 50 euros per ticket. Is that right? Last night I heard Mr Bouchez say at LN24 that the tax will be EUR 6. That tax for 660,000 flights is 4 million euros. Then why do you register EUR 30 million? I don't understand. Would you mind explaining that for me? If I understand correctly, it's not just about final destination. If I'm flying to Singapore tomorrow, I'm gonna have to cross Frankfurt. Frankfurt is not my final destination, but I will still have to pay that tax for Brussels-Frankfurt. Can you confirm that? Isn't it just about final destination within 500 km? After all, I did not choose to fly to Frankfurt if I wanted to go to Singapore. Because of international air traffic, it goes through Frankfurt. Other flights go via Amsterdam or Brussels. One will come here, for example, and then fly on to Central Africa. That's the way it is. That's not the passenger's choice. Mr De Vriendt, you have to tell me about transit flights. I'm in Congo and I want to go to Amsterdam. So I bought a ticket to Amsterdam and fly from Kinshasa via Brussels to Amsterdam. For example, there are 220,000 transit passengers each year. Will they have to pay too? Then we will be directly at the heart of the competitive position of Brussels Airlines in particular, when the government has already put tens of millions of dollars into that society, because it is so difficult. We voted in favour of this aid; I stood behind it, because it was necessary. This has been supported by the whole of Parliament. But we have to be careful and know what we want. For a carrier like Brussels Airlines, the margins are small. The company with thousands of employees did not have it easy and had a longer period of technical unemployment. I have discussed this extensively with Mrs Vindevoghel and Mr Vanbesien, whom I have not yet seen today. In any case, we have had a lot of work to do in Parliament. I think that we are finally moving in the right direction with the airline, but that does mean that we need to keep an eye on our carrier's competitiveness and not do anything stupid. Next question, what will the EUR 30 million be spent on? After all, I understand the green logic, and I have often talked about it between pot and pint with Mr Vanbesien. He is actually right: we should actually make sure that we get there faster and better by train in Amsterdam, Frankfurt or Paris to take the plane there. This is often happening, and the intention is to encourage it even more. I support that suggestion. But what happens in practice, Mr De Vriendt, with the EUR 30 million? Can you guarantee that the investments for better accessibility and collectivity of our train connection at Zaventem will be improved? After all, I hear in the corridors that it is the intention to abolish the railway line between Brussels Airport-Zaventem and Amsterdam-Schiphol and replace it with a line to Rotterdam, while the train would lead directly from Brussels-Zuid to Amsterdam-Schiphol. That would be disastrous and not ecological at all, especially if one wants to increase interconnectivity by replacing short-haul flights with the train. So can you assure me that won't happen? That story's been going around for months. The minister's here, he might be able to answer. Finally, I do miss vision. I personally believe that a flight tax is better agreed at European, even global level. We will now introduce them into our country and thus damage our competitive position. I thought that the position of the Liberals, among others, was that a flight tax could be discussed, but at European level. Now we will only introduce it here, which will put the already very difficult competitive position of Brussels Airlines and Brussels Airport at risk even more. Finally, is it a coincidence that no Walloon airport offers flights within 500 km? No flight from Charleroi has a destination within 500 km. That airport already does not pay for skeyes, which will have to raise its rate, but Wallonia does not want to pay extra. In violation of competition, it already receives huge subsidies from the Walloon Region and all the possible satellites it has created with thick posts and lots of money. The Walloon budget is one big luxury story. There's plenty of money in Wallonia, that's incredible. Wallonia certainly has some money left to sponsor Brussels South Charleroi Airport. There is now a tax, especially at the request of the French-speaking parties, of a government dominated by French-speaking parties. Who's gonna have to pay for that? Zaventem! What about Charleroi? Zero euro . Bierset? Zéro euro. Is that fair? Do you think that is right, Mr De Vriendt? Do you support that plan? I'd like to get a little more explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u114	Mr Francken, you see everything through Community glasses. We are talking about the general interest, about the climate transition, and you are asking whether Wallonia will remain free of this CO2 compensation. That's a little silly. CO2 compensation already exists in a number of other European countries. It is the logic itself in a climate shift or ecoshift that we would like to try to achieve with this budget. There are many private investors interested in launching hydrogen projects in Belgium. I live in Ostend and in the port area there is interest. It also looks at green hydrogen. Nobody's a fan of those gas plants. Energy policy has been hesitant in recent years, to say the least, and commitments such as the core step have never been prepared. A limited number of flexible, small gas plants are needed along the route towards 100% renewable energy that should ensure security of supply in Belgium. I don't want to see the image that came up all too often in the past. The windmills that come in and spin well must be shut down because there is too much wind. After all, nuclear power stations cannot be switched off so easily. Victim's wind power. We want to avoid that in the future. If we were to keep the two youngest nuclear power stations open, we would still need gas plants. That is the bitter reality and the legacy that we must solve. Of course, I will give you the framework on the CO2 compensation for the short flying noises. That framework is a revenue of EUR 30 million. I can also tell you that it is not the intention to charge EUR 50 on a plane ticket. The proceeds, which I spoke of, are effectively stopped in, for example, more investment in rail. The list of investments in rail will undoubtedly be drawn up in detail. However, we are talking about more train connections, better and therefore also more punctual train connections and, I understand, tackling a number of gaps in rail traffic. We fully support the development of the night train. Only that is not entirely in Belgian hands. However, we know that there are more and more night trains. These lines are being developed, which is, of course, a good thing. In this way we are trying to achieve the shift from air traffic, especially for short distances, to train traffic and why not also the night train. Colleagues, we have talked about climate and climate transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u115	Mr De Vriendt, it is an important subject. Everyone is looking at it, especially by the people of the aviation sector, the people of Brussels Airport and Brussels Airlines. They're all looking at it. Those questions, of course, are important. You are talking about the framework and that it is not the intention to ask for EUR 50 per ticket. Then what's the point? Why register EUR 30 million when 660,000 flight movements are counted? Then I think it'll be 50 or 40 euros per ticket. You claim that such an additional price is not the intention. Why, however, do you register EUR 30 million? Then sign in less. Otherwise, you'll cheat and blow air in your budget again. That is, of course, the problem. Where did you get that 30 million euros? That was discussed at the core and during the budget talks, wasn't it? There's been chips made about it and IKW's left, right? How did you get that amount of EUR 30 million? I have been informed that there were 660,000 flight movements in 2020 at Paris, London, Amsterdam and Frankfurt, the airports within a 500 km radius of Brussels Airport. Mr De Vriendt, otherwise there will be no flight except for Deurne on a flight to London. Deurne airport is also allowed to pay, the French-speaking people are not allowed to pay. I've noticed that. On transit flights I hear in the corridors that they would be excluded, which is a good thing. However, about the 660,000 flight movements, I can still tell you that someone who has to fly to Singapore over Frankfurt, which must, because there is no other way to do it, can also pay. So I'd like to get some clarity. How high will the price of that ticket be? What's it gonna cost? Now a ticket to Frankfurt or London costs 100 euros. A fee of 40 or 50 euros means an increase of 40 %. How the hell did you get the amount of EUR 30 million, which will even increase to EUR 40 million?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u116	Mr Francken, in a budget, a framework, an ambition, is laid down and measures are explained and introduced. Of course there will be thematic debates. The committees will work to achieve and operationalise the measures and ambition of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u117	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u118	Mr De Vriendt, what you are saying about the framework and such, I really do not think that is serious. Brussels Airport is one of the largest companies and is after the port of Antwerp, merged with Zeebrugge, the country's largest economic pole. By the way, for months, Brussels Airport has run out of president, because you don't want Marc Descheemaecker anymore. He had to go outside, because Open Vld had another account open. There is a procedure under way, which has not led Brussels Airport for months. In the meantime, the private shareholders are asking for Mr Descheemaecker to be held in office, because they have no problem with him. You guys told him to leave. The new president needs to be someone from your entourage. I think that is a purely old political culture, it really is a disgrace. Then you put EUR 30 million in the budget, which immediately jeopardises the competitiveness of our airport. Immediately, because there is no European flight tax, that tax is introduced uniquely in Belgium. I ask you what this EUR 30 million is based on, how much that tax will be per ticket. Last year, 660,000 tickets were sold for flights within 500 kilometres; these are the figures. You are now replying that you do not know, it will be reviewed. That's bad governance, it's not serious. You can't do that to a company like Brussels Airport, with the thousands of employees at the airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u119	It's obviously complicated for you to answer my question. Maybe a minister could help you. This is a mathematical question because we don't make big budgets. I do not imagine that there was any particular record on this point. Either your budget is not credible on this line and it is not about 30 or 40 million returns, or it is not 5 or 6 euros extra per ticket. You have to be honest with the citizens and say things. We need transparency and a truth speech. Who will be affected and for what amount? If it is 5 or 6 euros for the flights we are talking about, then this line will not bring back 30 or 40 million. Having said that, I understand the logic of the 500 kilometres and the smart jumps and the desire to favour rail transport. But out of respect for the citizens, it seems to me important to be completely honest on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u120	It is a debate that we have regularly during each discussion on the general policy of a government that follows a budget table. But we will have the budgetary discussion in due course, with a report from the Court of Auditors which will evaluate each of the lines you mention to see how the calculations have been formalized and how they have been carpented. In fact, 30 or 40 million euros is a lot of money. I remember, however, that, during the previous parliamentary term, there had been a budgetary target of EUR 700 million for the redesignation of the administration and for which we had not had the beginning of an explanation. It was a budgetary objective and that was how it was presented to us at the time by Minister Vandeput. In terms of presentation, therefore, it is not something unusual. On the other hand, we can obviously anticipate future budgetary discussions. What I want – because the questions you are asking are perfectly legitimate – is to obtain the opinion of the Court of Auditors, when the time comes, on the basis of the fact sheets which the various cabinets will make and, above all, through the Minister for Budgets, and we will have a debate on the figures in a very specific way, as we do every time in the Committee on Finance and Budgets. Besides, it really takes us a lot of time, as long as the current debate in plenary. But if we spend our time here decorating each of the lines of the table that has been given to us to know how all the calculations have been made, we will have to extend the meetings by another three or four days. It is to anticipate a debate which, for the moment, does not have all the elements, in particular the opinion of the Court of Auditors. I believe that we need the latter's opinion in order to be able to debate in depth when the time comes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u121	We still have a political debate today based on statements. And the tables actually make it possible to discern the substance of the decision that is taken. In this respect, it is logical that opposition work should take place. But, what exactly do you want to do? What I do not understand is that the minister, who is currently present, does not answer the question of what the purpose of the budget item is. If we were told: "Listen, we did the big snag, we were at the end of the meeting. We were short of time. We play vogelpik: "How much do you want, Georges? 30 million, is it good? OK, let's insert it!"" It's not a problem, but say it! On the other hand, if your political decisions conceal some information, we, from a statement, cannot know all that covers. And that is not the case in the political debate! The table makes it possible to explain the political debate, the statements that are made. I propose that the minister explain his calculations to us to arrive at a contribution of $30 or $40 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u122	Colleagues, thank you for all your questions about this option that the government has taken. Yes, clearly, a shift start is organized, where it is possible to take a train rather than a plane. This is not the case for all destinations, of course. We encourage any journey that can be made by train, like some neighbouring States, because we are talking about competition. This already exists, for those who inquire, in the Netherlands, in France. There will be a contribution to boarding flights of less than 500 km. The budget target is EUR 30 million. You saw it in the paintings that were distributed to you. Things are clear and clear. There is nothing to hide about this option. At the same time, we also invest to support international trains. For the first time, a budget will be provided in our tables to support night trains. Many people in our society are asking to take the train, in addition to the choice to travel by plane. So we will also support international trains, as we did in the Covid-19 period, with support for the train. We should not be ashamed of a decision that is forward-looking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u123	Applause for such an answer is losing my pants. A year ago, in order to save Brussels Airlines, we approved a loan of EUR 290 million. If it goes according to a Sabena scenario, we can write about its reimbursement. Meanwhile, we have approved another EUR 25 million for Aviapartner. This concerns the operation of the airport, which is very important for our economy. The job of hundreds of thousands of people in and around the airport depends on this. Minister, you have entered EUR 30 million in additional revenue on the basis of the airline tickets. Either you put your finger in the air to feel where the wind came from, or, as my colleague Raoul Hedebouw just said, you played bird dick, or you can explain to us why that amount is so high and on which it is based. Colleagues have calculated how many airline tickets are needed to reach these EUR 30 million. Give us a clear answer, otherwise - and I say it flatly - you are not worthy to enter this amount in the budget and to be Minister of the airlines and the railways.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u124	Both for the train and for the plane are advertised here, and I think Minister Gilkinet has also promoted swimming. He flutters around rather than giving a proper answer. Or maybe swimming is now the way to go to Britain? Some say that 30 million in the total budget is not much, and they have quite a point, although this is a specific private company, whose staff are now following this debate and wondering what the consequences will be for them. This can be seen as a detail in the budget, but the people in question would like an answer. An answer that floats somewhere between 2 and 50 euros is not very clear. It is not about higher mathematics either, because when it comes to 660,000 flights and 30 million euros, it is 45 euros, unless your policy is to double the number of air passengers within 500 kilometres. In that case, it can be done for 20 euros. For the company in question, such matters are crucial. If this EUR 30 million cannot be accounted for in the budget, what about the other amounts? If you are so careless about things that are perfectly controlled, what about the wet fingering of things that are unverifiable? How credible is a budget if you cannot divide two numbers of EUR 30 million and 660,000 flights in order to reach EUR 45? How are we supposed to deal with your overall budgetary exercise? I think that's the question here. Help the people involved in the flight system by giving them an answer to that simple question. I would also like to know why you are already starting to spend EUR 30 million in a budget where, for example, you are introducing EUR 1.2 billion in taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u125	I would also like to add a point about alternatives. They impose taxes on people when they want to fly over a short distance. But there's no alternative yet. Trains from the airport to Amsterdam or to Paris are not yet available. You're talking about a night train, Minister. The Malmö to Brussels line is not yet there. It's all in private hands. As a result, we see that a lot of these lines do not come, because of the cost. Long-range lines aren't here yet. That is a big problem that has not yet been solved. So people are being paid taxes, while there are no alternatives yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u126	Madam President, I would have hoped that we would have the support of the PVDA-PTB Group when it comes to CO2 compensation on short flights. This is not unique for Belgium. It already exists in a number of European countries. A certain levy is already being applied there. The proceeds are used for alternatives. A budget is a path, an intention, an ambition. As far as the track is concerned, it's more than that. It's just been emphasized. Since the start of Vivaldi, EUR 1.5 billion more has been invested in rail. So that train really left, if I can use that metaphor. The alternatives are under development. This budget presents a policy ambition and wants to achieve the ecoshift, the shift. I really hope that we can get the support of the progressive groups here in this House. Colleagues, a climate transition is the best way to tackle the energy bill. I'm making a little bridge between climate and energy. Renewable energy prices are the only ones that are falling. If the previous governments had not pursued such a hesitant energy policy, then the invoices would simply not be so high. We are well aware that people have no message of this, and that is why the government is immediately taking measures on energy bills with a reduction and structural reform worth EUR 760 million. No government has shown us that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u127	Mr De Vriendt, have I understood correctly when you say that this budgetary exercise will add EUR 1.5 billion to the track since the start of Vivaldi?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u128	I am counting 250 million in this exercise, and 365 million in addition, which had already been allocated from the European aid budgets. I do not come up with that sum of 1.5 billion, Mr De Vriendt. How's your math?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u129	Mr Roggeman, you may not have been there, but the amount of 1.5 billion investment in rail has just been mentioned by the Minister responsible. Vivaldi is more than this 2022 budget. I'm assuming you do. The total amount has just been made, and now we are talking about next year's budget. That's the difference. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to what we are doing in concrete terms for people with regard to the energy bill. For 2 million low-income people, the social energy tariff is being strengthened. We are doing even more than before, with an extra 80 euros. This corresponds to a reduction of EUR 750 on the invoice. We also delete all federal charges on the invoice. We are reforming it into an excise duty so that we have a fixed buffer for further price increases. This benefits families and businesses. There is also greater consumer protection, a more transparent energy bill and abuse of energy contracts. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is the most fundamental reform ever of the energy bill. The federal government takes full responsibility for its part of the invoice and reserves 750 million euros for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u130	Mr. De Vriendt, excuse me for interrupting. I would like to speak, as you are again addressing this point, as Mr Vanden Burre did earlier. Since then, social networks and everything everyone does still bring us interesting information. Just now, on the side of the majority, I heard loud and clear that it was socially right to limit the effort, aid and support to the explosion of energy prices to those who can benefit from this social tariff, including the extended social tariff, i.e. the 20%. And you all seemed to take me from high, while I was explaining how complicated it was for a certain number of salaries just above. I had taken the example of this single-parent family with two children and an income of 2,400 euros that could not benefit from it and you all seemed to think: "What does it come with?", As if this family were a family. And to put a little bit of ambiance in our work, Paul Magnette, president of the PS, just made a little live at noon on Twitch, saying: "Neither the liberals nor the ecologists wanted our energy check for all. Those who are just above the criteria of the social tariff will indeed not have much." In essence, he agrees with us and here he confirms that the choice you made is positive for the 20% concerned but it is socially unfair for another part of the population who works and who has incomes that are far from the income of the wealthy or those of Albert Brother and who, in fact, given the explosion of energy prices should logically have been able to benefit also from substantial aid. I still wanted to share with you this analysis of a party president of your majority. I see that he is joining us and I dare hope that in the near future - we can always push and plead - there will be a development and a consideration of these equally frankly difficult situations, given the evolution of energy prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u131	Mrs Fonck, if you want to have a debate with the president of the PS, you will obviously have to find a forum other than this. What we are defending here is the State of the Union, the budgetary agreement with the choices made in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u132	Mr De Vriendt, I have just heard you say two things. Firstly, you say that if we had invested more in sun and wind, the invoices would not have been as high as they are today. Maybe you should tell me exactly how you see it. Of course, in recent legislatures it was often said that Germany was the great example, the shining path, the star on the horizon, so to speak. Certainly our former colleague, Mr Nollet, has referred to this time and again. However, if we look today at the market prices paid in Germany for the next quarter or for next year, we have to see that they pay more than we do. The wholesale prices in Germany, where, as is always mentioned here, they have much more to do with renewable energy, are higher today than with us, when you say that we have not put enough effort into it. That seems like a strange thing to me. We have often had the debate on low prices as a result of nuclear power stations, and your own minister has always said that this is not the way to see it, because it is really the gas price and the gas plants that determine how expensive things are. That is not consistent with what you are saying, especially that if there were more windmills, the wholesale prices or the market price would be lower. Secondly, for the reform replacing federal contributions and levies with an excise duty, the budget will be EUR 156 million for next year's registration. That's the amount there is. At the same time, we know that the CREG has carried out a study warning that EUR 100 million of aid for offshore windmills will have to be offset from last year. That still has to be in the invoice. We have had a debate on this with the Minister and she has said that the government is going to solve it. If that EUR 100 million is to be compensated, then there is actually only EUR 56 million to be distributed. Then I wonder where the big difference is for the final customer, because if you have to divide that 56 million among a large group of people, then there is not much left of it. What's that all about? In the following years, that amount will fall. Next year it will be 156 million and the year after that you will provide 120 million. So there must be a lot less compensation. In the following year, this measure will cost only 60 million. This means that you are going to compensate only 60% of the annual increase in the cost of offshore wind energy by EUR 100 million within two to three years. Can you tell me how you got that calculation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u133	Mrs Fonck, I am defending the budget agreement here. The choices that are made are also ours. In this debate, it has been mentioned a number of times that the social energy tariff only benefits people with benefits. People are asked what we do for the working people. Social energy rates apply to people with an annual income of EUR 20,764 and for each dependent person the amount increases by EUR 3,844. This therefore represents an income of about 25,000 euros. There are people in this country who work and unfortunately only get that amount. So they can enjoy the social energy tariff. That's the two million Belgians we're talking about. It is a choice to support especially the most vulnerable at a time when energy prices are rising.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u134	The figures are clear, it's about the third decile. No one here wants to refute the fact that in Belgium certain working people are actually receiving the social tariff. It is very bad for a rich country like Belgium that working people can still get that social rate. That is another debate on wage formation in Belgium. However, this discussion is about that third deciel. More specifically, it concerns all the working people who are not broad at all. They just don't belong to the working poor. As a result, they will not be covered by the social tariff. We already know that you are opposed to a VAT reduction, but today we hear in the political debate that the Green parties at the negotiating table were also opposed to linear, more global measures, such as a cheque of EUR 100 for everyone. I find that strange for a party that normally has a social profile. It concerns workers and servants with some acceptable wages, namely a wage of 1,500 euros to 1,600 euros. People living together with that wage are already excluded from the social rate. It's about people like that. I think that's where the government misses the point. You must be able to admit that. You are talking about the working poor who can get a social rate. This is about 20% of the population. That's why I'm asking you why the 21st percent doesn't get anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, please, there is too much noise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u136	Madam President, the Conference of Presidents gave 20 minutes to majority parties. I would just like to point out that the Green Group has been in the front seat for two hours. This goes against the clear agreement within the Conference of Presidents, with which everyone agreed. One possibility is that the thematic debates will be held after the general debate, so that all these detailed questions can be asked to the relevant ministers. Another possibility is that there will be no thematic debates, but in that case each speaker will be in the gallery for about two hours. There is no point in holding thematic debates after such an extensive debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u137	Mr Hedebouw, I like a solid parliamentary debate, so I would like to address your important question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u138	As the debate evolves, we are in danger of finding ourselves in a situation where the MR and the PS will also have 40 minutes, as they seem to be in the opposition. Then it threatens to last even longer here than it already took. Mrs Depraetere, we have heard both Minister Gilkinet and Minister Van der Straeten this morning, who has rightly already intervened in the debate. This avoids a question being asked at noon which will not be answered until 9 p.m. That would not be the way to organise a live debate. In the way it happened now, there is indeed a question and an answer. Anyway, it points out to your collegiality that you are jumping to the rescue of Wouter De Vriendt, I must say.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u139	If there are no further interruptions, I can go into Mr Hedebouw's point. Mr Hedebouw, strengthening the social energy tariff for the 2 million most vulnerable in our country is an important measure. That's where a lot of money goes, and that's what it takes to keep those people out of energy poverty. But that's not all we do. We are moving towards an energy standard, replacing taxes with excise duties, which we can block as a protection mechanism against further price increases. That's important. Up to 50 euro discount for each family. In addition, fortunately, we have indexing. The N-VA wanted to abolish wage indexation. Just now the N-VA argued that it had to be more social and asked the party why we didn't do it anymore. If we followed the plans of the N-VA, there would be no automatic wage indexing anymore, and that would make everyone feel natural in their wallet at the end of the month. Vivaldi's making another choice. I am sure you will give applause for that. We also have the reduction in the cost of wages for people who work. The social security crisis contribution is gradually reduced and eventually abolished. The first step will be taken next year. In other words, purchasing power is being strengthened for everyone. The purchasing power for the most vulnerable will certainly be strengthened. What we do not agree with you about is the VAT reduction for energy. I think it is a big problem to give a check to people who absolutely do not need it, Mr Hedebouw. When we lower VAT on energy, we actually give everyone a 15% discount, including who absolutely does not need it. The finances in our country are already precarious. We have to keep an eye on that. We are not budget Orthodox who want to squeeze the throat of our economy at such an important moment. No, we'll invest too. We'll save, but we won't cut off the breath of our economy. That means we also have to look after the finances. Giving an energy check to people who don't need it and who use it to fill their pool, that's really not our choice, Mr Hedebouw. I'm very sorry. That is where we differ. That must also be possible to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u140	In this logic of VAT, one can go very far. They pay VAT for food, consumption and mobile phones. If one intervenes only in terms of consumption in order to make the rich pay, that is a bad lead. VAT has no redistribution effect. On the contrary, it weighs more heavily on the weakest of our people. If you want the rich to pay, don't do it through their pool. Do it through the personal tax. Do it through a fortune tax. That is the debate we must have. Doing this through VAT is fundamental tax and ideological error. Really. We have created the VAT of 6% for the essential goods. It cannot be said that electricity and gas are not essential. C'est inexplicable. You're also working on social issues. If you say that there is no money for this, then this can be debated. However, the question in this fiscal debate is whether it is useful to make the rich pay through VAT? That's a wrong choice. You're really wrong about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u141	Mr Hedebouw, I would like to repeat what measures we are taking to reduce the energy bill, outside the extension of the social energy tariff? In fact, we are much more social in this respect than you are, because a reduction in VAT on energy results in a reduction of 15%. We agree on that. The budgetary tables do not need to be verified; that is clear. The social energy rate gives a difference of more than 700 euros on the invoice. That's way more than the 15% reduction you're proposing. It is a much more social proposal than your proposal to reduce VAT.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u142	Mr De Vriendt, on 22 December 2011, your party will issue a press release stating that VAT should be reduced from 21% to 6%. When VAT increased again in 2014 due to the increase in the index, you fully filled in Parliament against the increase in VAT. We're a few years later now. Is that a moving insight or a green hypocrisy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u143	Mr. Dedecker, it's very simple. If we now have the idea of reducing VAT on energy, then we are not in favour of that. We are in favour of targeted, effective measures to help the large group of people who are struggling to pay the energy bill, but not the people who do not need it. That is a policy choice that we have had, including in the political debates, and we have made a certain choice that we are defending 100%.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u144	Mr De Vriendt, at the beginning of this year I spoke with some peace judges about energy poverty. The top 1 of the claims is still for telephony. However, energy poverty is increasing dramatically. You can see it from the graph. The study on energy poverty in Genk deals specifically with social housing. Social housing is largely Flemish matter, but it is those people you are talking about who do not have the money to isolate their homes and buy energy-saving lamps. Many apartments are still equipped with electric convectors. Let me give you an example from that study. The average family from such an apartment block pays 300 euros per month for electricity. Before the price increase they received a bill of 2,000 to 4,000 euros. We have always been masters of solutions, allowing them to pay it off per month. What influence do you think you have with these measures? That 50 euros won't make the difference here. Then I will return to what my colleague Hedebouw has just said. These people are going to consume seven to eight times more than someone in a traditional situation with a good wage and an isolated home. That's not their fault, they're in a social home. What impact does all this have? Who have you made the most gift to when talking about the impact of the VAT reduction? To that family, or to the better earner, who managed to isolate his home perfectly? You talk about people with a pool all the time. Not everyone has a pool. Let's get this straight. There will be an impact on the common man. The better earner will come out here as the big winner. You're talking about an average of 700 euros per energy bill per year. How much VAT does that amount to? Who made a profit on that score? That's you, isn't it? The 50 euros on an annual basis means that these people are going to pay exactly three times more than before.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u145	You are absolutely right to cite this example. The energy bill goes up to 800 euros. Cough that up once with a regular income. That's why the government is taking action. I've listed it. Firstly, the social energy tariff is being strengthened, including for low-income workers. They fall within the target group. The energy standard is good for families and good for companies. The indexation is maintained. There is a wage reduction, a removal of a crisis contribution to social security. This brings us to powers that are indeed with the regions. I'm going in because you mentioned it. Then it's about insulation of houses, less energy consumption, renovation of homes. Then we are stuck there at the federal level and we are indeed looking at the regions to make an effort there. Let's stop taking each other's flies and say that one level is doing better than the other. When we talk about federalism for cooperation, it may be useful to put it into practice and join forces to reduce the energy bill. There are a number of measures in this budget. That is not the case for the moment in the Flemish budget. But I have heard the Flemish Minister for Energy and she has a number of proposals. Hopefully we can come to a reduction in the invoice and that's what it's all about. Colleagues, I come to the point I want to make, namely with regard to poverty. Never before have so many families lived in poverty. In order to think about the future, one must of course be sure that one is due at the end of the month. Therefore, the government already increased the minimum pensions to 1,500 euros. That is why we also introduce the social energy tariff, together with the retention of part of the benefit if a job seeker enters a bottleneck profession. So we do what's necessary and protect who's having a hard time. In her first year, I think everyone knows that. Vivaldi was a crisis government, we had to manage a crisis. Now it must become a real reform government. And the first lines are already being set out, including the elimination of some important looming errors in our taxation. The social security crisis contribution will be reduced. There will be a reduction in the burden for all employees. The one-day sickness note will be abolished, which is an administrative simplification. The right to training is enshrined, it becomes an individual right. And we also build the tax gifts for top sportsmen and expats. Mr Prime Minister, that is not enough, of course, because there is still work to be done. We know that. With regard to climate and energy, the compass is clear, the objectives are clear and the ambition is high. This is not yet the case for pensions and tax reform. The minister responsible is here. He also said that he wanted to come up with a plan for fiscal reform. We are confident in that. There are yards that need to be tackled. The government has also made it clear that these yards will also be addressed. The basis for this is there. The OECD decided to introduce a minimum tax for companies of 15%. This only shows that fair taxation can count on a great deal of support. Colleagues, I am getting to my conclusion. Only one goes faster, but together one gets further. Vivaldi brings together seven parties who believe in this country and work on solutions for 11 million compatriots. However, there are hijackers off the coast. The Flemish opposition is after a system crash. Big money is being wagered at the end of Belgium. That's why there's no time to lose. Vivaldi's the last chance. This budget is a first hurdle in restoring people's confidence. But if we want to be worthy of people's trust, we have to... The President: Mr De Vriendt, three other members asked to speak. I have decided to leave them to the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u146	Mr De Vriendt, I asked specific questions, and you did not answer them. Can you clarify that for me? If you do not know the answer and wish to refer it to someone else because you do not know exactly why you have just said it, you can, but please clarify it. I asked you specific questions about the energy bill, if you remember?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u147	I've gone into the price. I have had the debate on nuclear energy. The price of nuclear energy from fossil fuels as a whole is continuing to rise. The price of renewable energy, and you may disagree, is only falling. The reality is the following: in France, with nuclear energy, prices for energy are currently higher than in Denmark, without nuclear energy. Nuclear energy is not cheap technology, and it is often forgotten to include the processing of nuclear waste in this price. So our analysis is that we are better focused on renewable energy and focus on 100% renewable energy as soon as possible. This also means effectively implementing the core step, which you yourself, Mr Wollants, decided and confirmed in 2018. In 2018, the N-VA co-confirmed and decided that core trip. That is the reality and it must be said.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u148	For the record, Mr De Vriendt, you are happy to answer questions I have not asked. I asked for a response to the fact that in Germany, the Green example in terms of renewable energy, prices are higher today than in ours. This in terms of your statement that more renewable energy would have led to lower energy prices today. I also asked how you intend to pay the energy standards with EUR 156, 120 and 60 million respectively, knowing that EUR 100 million has to be collected from a previous period. I have asked you this question, but you are again turning away from the whim that we supported the core exit. I'll ask you another question. When we approved the life span of Objectives 1 and 2 - that is what we are talking about - you voted against. Did you then vote against the calendar of the core exit? Come on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u149	Mr. Wollants, you were in the Michel administration, weren't you? The Michel administration has confirmed the core exit. Questions can be asked about the level of preparation, but the Michael administration has always confirmed the core step. You were part of the Michel administration, so that's clear. As for your energy standard, its budgeting is part of the entire budget. The bill checks out, there's one in and one out. The energy standard has a certain price and it is collected within general resources. That is what the budget tables say.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u150	I would like to come back to another issue, namely fiscal justice. Last year there was a small incident between the Prime Minister and myself during the inquisition debate. The Prime Minister spoke in his speech about more respect. In the new political culture there would be more listening to each other and he made it the binder of purple green. You call it Vivaldi, but we prefer to call it purple green, because we have fantastic memories of the period from the beginning of 2000. What would I have done to make that fallout worth? The Prime Minister's cabinet had provided us with the table of revenue from the action plan to combat tax and social fraud, and I had added these amounts. It went from 200 million in 2021 to 1 billion in 2024. I am glad to be able to come back to that today. That was a year ago, but I didn't forget. I told you this was going to cost 2.4 billion. The Prime Minister took offense, he said it wasn't a kindergarten here after all. I had added that and I was not allowed to, the ambition was EUR 1 billion in 2024. I was just looking at Sander, because I thought I made a mistake, since the Prime Minister was so out of line. There was then a whole debate on Twitter and on other fora about who was right. The truth will probably lie in the middle, but I would like to ask you this, Mr De Vriendt. Your party is very focused on this tax fraud. For next year, a revenue of EUR 400 million has been registered. An action plan was announced and approved by the government on 7 June. It includes more cooperation and a number of other points. There are certainly some good things in between, but it seems very clever that this would bring EUR 400 million. The Action Plan has not yet been incorporated into a law, although it was adopted in June. It has not yet been put into practice and no legislation has yet been passed on this issue, but it should have been worth EUR 150 million this year. We are now in the fourth quarter and EUR 150 million had to have been raised by the fight against tax and social fraud. Is that what happened? Is that money in yet? For next year and the years after, the ambition is skyrocketing, but apart from more cooperation, I see very few concrete points, especially in the area of amending legislation, except for copyright. The journalists, photographers and cameramen here in the room should be very interested. The increasing number of people working with copyright must certainly be interested in this. This is a very serious matter. Do you really think that income is credible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u151	Mr Francken, you draw attention to an important policy choice made by this government. There was and is still a lot of ambition. Not only do we hear that ambition in the words we are saying, but we see that ambition not only in the figures in our table, but also in a fraud plan, which has come a little later than usual. We started in October and it took some time to get all the structures necessary to put that plan back on the table. In the previous legislature, under the responsibility of the former Minister responsible for the fight against fraud, these structures were all gone. We have re-established it, and we have made sure once again that there is cooperation between all the administrations responsible for the fight against tax and social fraud in this country. Those lectures include people from the Justice Department. Everyone involved in the fight against fraud in this country will be put together there. They have drawn up a plan with 29 action points. The plan contains 29 action points, with a project sheet attached for each point. That way, we can follow up on what we have to do. As you rightly point out, the focus is on cooperation, coordination and data sharing. If there is social fraud in one silo, we should be able to get to work on that data in the other silo. That is the basic philosophy of the fraud plan adopted this year in May. I am convinced that what we can achieve will be in line with the EUR 200 million on social and fiscal fraud. In the case of tax fraud, this cannot be calculated with the exception of a euro. If that were possible, we wouldn't be sitting here. It would be easier to explain, but that is impossible, either for social fraud or for tax fraud. We do have ambition. Since May, we have been meeting on a monthly basis on the Fraud Plan 2022 and at the June meeting we have instructed the various services, the Committee, to work on the Fraud Plan 2022, which will focus more on international fraud than in the past. The recent stories, such as the one about the Pandora Papers, prove that this was already our focus and ambition at that time and not since last week. I am convinced that by the end of this year or the beginning of next year, we will again be presenting a solid package of measures with the commitment of social and fiscal fraud, but more at an international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u152	Madam President, I would just like to point out that thematic discussions are scheduled. If all subjects are to be exhausted during interventions, what is the purpose of this programming? I refer once again to what has been decided in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u153	Mr Laaouej, there is room for debate in a fairly broad way, given the number of interruptions and interventions. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the floor is in the second political group and that we have been meeting for almost five hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u154	Madam President, I agree that we must also fill in the thematic debates very usefully. I would just like to go into what the Minister says in a factual way and at the same time put a question to you, Mr De Vriendt. Minister, you say that the previous Finance Minister has left nothing behind, that all the structures have been destroyed. You may remember that Mr Alexander De Croo was the previous finance minister. More seriously, you were obviously referring to Mr. Johan Van Overtveldt. This will undoubtedly be discussed in the thematic debate, including the fight against all kinds of papers, the introduction of the caiman tax and the increase in the fight against tax fraud. All those things happened under Johan Van Overtveldt. Mr De Vriendt, I would like to comment with you on the point you discussed with Mr Francken, in particular on its revenue. I hear you constantly talking about ambition, you say that you are convinced that the amount will be 'cool', but I do not really hear you speak a harsh language. I therefore support the consultation of experts. The Court of Auditors says about your plans that there is insufficient information available: "We cannot assess whether the estimates of revenue are correct and realistic" to make a detailed calculation. That was, at the start of the budget, about the fraud figures, which are still the same. More topically, top officials of the Monitoring Committee published a report on which you base yourself, and that report also says literally: "Since that information is still not available to date." So even your top officials do not really believe that the amounts will be collected as you inform them. Mr De Vriendt, you were very voluntaristic in your speech to the Prime Minister when you spoke about clear ambitious goals in terms of climate. It seemed in your reasoning that you wanted to say about the financial objectives that it was less, but all of a sudden you saw that Minister Van Peteghem is also here, so that you held back a little, since you are colleagues in a government. So you've stayed a little fresh and polite and taken some gas back. Neither the Court of Auditors nor the Monitoring Committee has any confidence in the budgetary returns. When you put the budgetary revenues for the fight against fraud as a real point of your group and your party in the spotlight, where is the tension? Do you believe the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u155	Madam President, Mr Loones, that is a silly attempt to stir up an argument. You know that tax fraud is, of course, a key issue for our party, as is fiscal reform. In this respect, the Prime Minister and the whole government themselves have long announced that they would come forward with a plan. I understand your remark, quite frankly, not very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u156	Madam President, Mr Francken has asked a very fair question about the EUR 200 million entered for the fight against fraud. I have asked this question several times in committee, both to the Secretary of State for the Budget and to the Minister of Finance. However, I do not get an answer to my question. So I'd like to put them to you as well. How much of that 200 million euros has been realized today? To what extent are these amounts realistic? For us, it is clear that the first billion euros entered into the government agreement, which is largely based on the fight against fraud, is based on loose sand, hot air and talk. The Minister of Finance announced yesterday that the recruitment of some 40 additional fraud detectives was registered. The current government, as Mr Francken rightly said, wants to raise more than EUR 1 billion through the fight against fraud. Meanwhile, however, Attorney General Delmull stated that the Brussels federal judicial police will no longer investigate all financial, economic and tax offences. While the Minister of Finance is once again standing here today as the white knight against tax fraud, loose tax fraud is being de facto guided during the current reign. Meanwhile, it may have become clear that the planned billions of euros through the fight against fraud, which are also promised in the budget, are in fact hot air. The Attorney General refers, among other things, to the shortage of qualified researchers and the unfilled vacancies as a reason for increasing net meshes. The Minister of Justice, who is also here, or should we now call him the Minister of Announcement Policy, Mr Van Quickenborne, announced in a response to Delmull's words that he would be even more committed to recruitments to the judicial police. He also admitted in his statements that this would not be obvious. The extra millions announced by Minister Van Quickenborne for Justice have probably already been published, announced and re-published in ten copies. In reality, we find that, in the field of tax fraud too, the justice system must gradually let go of its reins, at least that is our conclusion. That is why everyone is wondering how much of this EUR 200 million has already been realized and to what extent these amounts are realistic, especially taking into account the federal judicial police who are already throwing the towel in the ring in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u157	You ask to what extent this is realistic. The question is always what ambition we have. Does Parliament think that the government should be ambitious and realistic in the fight against fraud? Yeah? That's what I like to hear. I therefore hope that you will be equally ambitious and equally realistic in committee whenever we talk about it. The government of which Mr Van Overtvelt was a member had no plans at all. There was an ambition: EUR 1.2 billion had to meet the challenge of fraud. It is only when certain matters have been imposed from above that they have been implemented. The Cayman tax has come because Europe has imposed it on us. Let me be clear: the current government wants to tackle fraud in a very project-like and very realistic way. We have a 29-point plan. You are welcome to criticize this, but I am sure that we will achieve 200 million by means of that plan. Moreover, we are already working on a plan for next year, which also accounts for 200 million, and the following year again. Mr Vermeersch, you said just now that we do not know how to deal with justice. You can read what we agreed on in our action plan. We need better cooperation between our tax administration, the judiciary and the police. Often a file does indeed drag on for a very long time. If it goes to court, new people will have to work in that same file. Well, we made the agreement that this cooperation should be improved so that we do not waste any time when something goes to the Justice Department. So we are ambitious but also realistic. With the plans before us today, I am sure that we will be there. (Applause) (Applause) (Rumoer) (Brouhaha) The President: Ladies and gentlemen, it is almost 3 p.m. You have all now had the opportunity to speak, except for Mr Donné.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u158	I'd still like to replicate. I think it's super gratuitous that you're attacking a minister of a government you were part of and giving the truth such a twist. No structures have been completed under Johan Van Overtveld. As much as 18 billion euros have been repatriated from tax havens thanks to legislation by Johan Van Overtveldt. That's not something he says himself, that's what the National Bank says. The 200 million a year we are talking about is an ambitious but realistic amount that we entered under the previous government. What is perhaps ambitious but absolutely unrealistic is to register 1 billion for 2024, just from the fight against fraud. I would like to add one more point. Combating fraud is not the same as increasing taxes. Your action plan says that you will amend copyright legislation. That is a flat tax increase, which you should not subscribe to in a plan against fraud but in the context of a major tax reform. You've got to stay serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u159	Minister, I really feel like saying not words but deeds. You say today you're going to recruit 40 extra people. That was one of the spearheads of your voluntarism. How has the number of officials focusing on tax control evolved over the past five years? My colleague Marco Van Hees asked you that question, because these figures were not yet available. I will make them public today, because you have now answered that question. In 2016, 4.314 people worked on that service, in 2017 there were 4,170, in 2018 4,021, in 2019 3,803 and in 2020 3,827. Ladies and gentlemen, compared with five years ago, 487 officials were less employed in the control department. That's what happened under the Swedish government. Today, the Minister tells us that 40 people are joining. So, compared to five years ago, there are still 447 fewer people in the control services. You are here to tell us that tax fraud is a priority. That is not true, Minister. If you really want to get those billions, you need to invest in the public service responsible for tax fraud. The next thing is the worst of all. Four days before the State of the Union, you decided to take three countries off the list of tax havens, including the Seychelles. The Seychelles was designated by the journalists as one of the most important tax havens. It's always the same. When it comes to long-term sick people, there will be checks and accountability. When it comes to tax fraud, there are simply no resources. That's why everything stays the same. There are wishes, wishes and wishes in the budgetary tables, but nothing happens in practice. Can you explain to me, Minister, how you are going to fight tax fraud less with 500 people?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u160	Colleagues, do you have any questions of a general nature, because I have heard many details in your speeches? We are now in the third speaker. There are about 10 participants for the general debate and 36 for the thematic debates. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to close before tomorrow or if your objective is to spend the night there, I will interrupt the proceedings as I find this way of operating totally unacceptable and disrespectful in view of the agreements reached at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip129x.u161	I come to my conclusion and the last point I would like to make. The State of the Union is an important step in regaining the trust of the population. If we want to be worthy of people's trust, we will also have to look in the mirror as politicians. First and foremost, a more efficient government is needed. The corona pandemic has exposed the weaknesses. There's too little unity of command and too much fragmentation. So, yes, there needs to be a new state reform, a new and more efficient structure, but with a modern and participatory approach. The method of the dialogue platform, initiated with the intention of shaping the pathway towards a new structure of the state, is not an end point for us, but rather the start of thorough citizen consultation. Locking himself in a castle to work on a state reform may be safer, but engaging in a conversation with the citizen is more courageous and therefore more authentic. There is still work to be done on political renewal. We have put forward some fifteen proposals and solutions, such as the extension of the lobby register, including for the Cabinets, and a ceiling on social media spending. Seven Belgians are among the top ten European politicians who spend most on social media advertising. We also have a proposal on voting rights at the age of 16 for European elections, citizen participation in Parliament so that citizens, side by side with Members of Parliament, think about a better policy. In all honesty, we still do not see enough of the turnaround that the Vivaldi government would make. That is why I would like to appeal to Parliament to be the driving force behind political renewal. After all, Vivaldi is Belgium's last chance. It is also the last chance for reasonable and credible politics, which gives people hope instead of fear. We're looking at a col out of category. The challenges are enormous. We're gonna need the 11 million countrymen if we're gonna make something out of our country. Of course, the work is not finished with this budget, Mr Prime Minister. But an important intermediate sprint was won. After a very turbulent year, we wish you and your government team a speedy ride and a lot of effort. Make the proposed unique project a success. After one year, your team deserves confidence, and that is what you will get tomorrow from our group. The Chair: Colleagues, I propose that the remaining questions be asked during the thematic debates. I also propose that you suspend the meeting for technical reasons for half an hour. Thank you. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 13 October 2021 at 15.20 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Wednesday, October 13, 2021 at 3.20 p.m.
