ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u1	I don't see Mr Metsu on Zoom. I shall then give the floor to Mr Moyaers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u2	It is a little strange that Mr Metsu is not here today, because I specifically postponed my question for him last week. Maybe he'll be able to plug in later. Recently, I was contacted by candidate inspectors who were not allowed to start police training because they were declared medically unfit. The culprit in the whole story would be the factor V Leiden. This is a blood clotting disorder that occurs in different degrees. The light form of this is called factor V Leiden heterozygous. This means that there is an increased risk of thromboembolism. Most people don't even know they're carriers of that. The absolute risk of venous thromboembolism is very low. A professor already wrote in a medical report that the chance that the patient concerned is experiencing a thrombosis is extremely minimal. At the same time, the same professor refers to the (un)ethical and (un)legal aspect applied to the candidate inspector. At the end of December 2020, the medical disability of another candidate with the same medical background was reviewed under pressure from a petition to the Council of State. In the meantime, other candidates sent a 'application for voluntary employment' from the Federal Police Department to the recruitment service. Is it true that when candidates submit applications, they are admitted to the training of police inspectors? If that is the case, do you believe that this is a form of discrimination for those who are not allowed to do so? Are you prepared to take steps to ensure that factor V Leiden no longer has to be an obstacle to starting the training of police inspector?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u3	Mr President, Mr Moyaers, candidates who submit a petition, and in so far as new elements are introduced, are again medically assessed by the occupational physician. This applies to all candidates who are found to be medically, temporarily or permanently unfit. There is therefore no discrimination whatsoever in the case of certain diseases. The medical criteria are established and are assessed on an individual basis, also for the purpose of the desired profile. Indeed, it is true that an appeal was brought before the Council of State by a candidate who was considered unfit because of the factor V Leiden. After analysis of the appeal, it was decided to withdraw the decision on medical incapacity and to re-evaluate the file. In the case of medical conditions, the Department of Occupational Medicine shall always examine its implications for the operational tasks which a member of the operational framework should be able to perform. In doing so, the occupational physician shall take into account any preventive measures listed in a medical report of the treating physician. The method is also followed for candidates suffering from factor V Leiden. For each decision of medical incapacity, it is, of course, always checked whether there are sufficient medical elements to support such a decision. Each candidate will, of course, be assessed separately, taking into account all the elements of the medical file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u4	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply, from which I understand that people can be admitted after they go to the Council of State and possibly submit a new dossier. From your reply, I cannot be clear as to what exactly happens for those who file a petition for a voluntary appeal from the federal police's legal service to the recruitment service. Does this also mean that the investigation reopens, that these people automatically get the chance to re-evaluate and become a candidate inspector? I would have liked more clarification on that. That is also what I am asking in the light of the fact that the police are eagerly looking to recruit candidate inspectors. Since the risk is so minimal, we must not deprive those people of the opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u5	Mr Moyaers, in the case of a willing profession, the candidacy can be reconsidered, but that is not necessarily necessary. It is very difficult to make a general statement on this. On the basis of a well-founded willing appeal, the evaluation may be repeated and a decision may be withdrawn, provided that the time limit for bringing proceedings has not yet expired. If it is not taken, then it cannot be enforced. A voluntary appeal is based on the willingness of the government to reconsider and decide again, but there are no time limits or certain procedures. So it does not correspond to a ruling like that of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u6	Madam Secretary, thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u7	Mr President, Minister, the Chovanec case is at a next stage. A few weeks ago, the Commissioner-General informed the Chamber that there was an investigation against some 40 police officers. Sixteen out of 40 would also be the subject of a judicial inquiry, which would result in the decision on whether or not to initiate disciplinary proceedings later. When I do a math, there are about 24 other files left in which a decision has to be made by the disciplinary authorities. We know that there are a lot of people involved in this dossier, which also demonstrates its complexity. On 10 February, you indicated here in committee that a disciplinary procedure was being initiated against three senior officers. In the media, we could read that a procedure was initiated against three other police officers, probably also senior police officers. However, we do not yet have a view of the total picture. I have three questions about this. Firstly, how many police officers were effectively subjected to disciplinary proceedings after the investigation? Secondly, in how many cases does the Disciplinary Officer wait until the end of the judicial investigation? Is that the 16 the Commissioner-General spoke of, or more or less? Thirdly, in how many cases was it decided not to initiate disciplinary proceedings?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u8	Mr Rigot is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u9	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, a total of 36 staff are under the jurisdiction of the federal police. In the meantime, a disciplinary procedure has already been initiated for four staff members. For 17 staff, the Disciplinary Board decided to await the completion of the judicial proceedings, in accordance with Article 56 (2) of the Disciplinary Act. For 15 staff, the Disciplinary Board found that the facts did not lead to disciplinary penalties and a working note was added for one member of staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u10	Madam Minister, that is a short and concise answer, with clear figures. I'm actually a little surprised, because you had already answered a question about three senior officers before. Then I read in the newspaper that there were three others, which brings us to six. I do not see that in these figures. I assume you do have the only true correct figures. After an addition, I myself arrive at 37, unless that working paper concerns someone against whom a disciplinary procedure has already been initiated. I have four for whom the disciplinary procedure has been initiated, 17 waiting for the outcome of the judicial investigation, 15 where it is decided not to start and one where a working paper has been drawn up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u11	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u12	That's included in the 15? Good. In those 15 where it was decided not to do it, are those express decisions or are there also periods of limitation, where the Disciplinary Officer has not taken a decision, which means that the six-month period has expired?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u13	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u14	Those are express decisions. Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u15	Colleagues, I am well aware that the ban on being on public roads between midnight and 05:00 in the morning, as provided for in Article 14 of the Ministerial Decree of 28 October 2020, is a drastic measure which significantly limits the rights and freedoms of our citizens. As the Prime Minister pointed out at the press conference on 5 February, it is certain that we will not keep these binding measures one day too much. However, we must recognize that this measure has proven its worth since the beginning of the pandemic, whether in our country or abroad, and that it has allowed us to smooth out the contamination curve without having to move to full containment as we knew it in March 2020. We must also recognize that while the figures for contamination and hospitalizations are better than those for October, the epidemiological situation in our country is particularly difficult at this time, as also explained by the Prime Minister at the press conference held on Friday, February 26. In this regard, it should be noted that the measures we are taking should not be studied separately but should be understood as a coherent set in which different measures reinforce each other. Given the epidemiological situation we are experiencing, it is always necessary to combat illegal gatherings effectively. The ban on being on the public road between midnight and 5:00 a.m. is an effective part of this struggle, particularly by discouraging people from going to illegal gatherings in the evening. It is obvious that certain consequences of such a ban may, from an individual point of view, seem far removed from the health objective pursued. However, it is everyone's responsibility to apply the rule individually to ensure that it is complied with in a comprehensive manner and is as effective as possible. The examples you give are not unreasonable and are obviously part of the difficult equation between the need to take strict health measures and the maintenance of individual freedoms. All measures are regularly evaluated on the basis of epidemiological data and will be discussed in the Consultation Committee on Friday, 5 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answer. The curfew question leaves me puzzled. The question of the effectiveness of curfew cannot be determined, or the question arises. As you said yourself, efficiency is judged in an overall way in relation to all measures, but not in relation to specific measures. Curfew is a fairly important violation of individual freedoms. There is no clear enough assessment of the effectiveness of this curfew. I take the example of Flanders, where curfew is at midnight while it is at 10 p.m. in Brussels and Wallonia. The difference in terms of increased contamination is not significant. What justifies this inconsistency? This raises questions about the very effectiveness of curfew compared to other measures. A measure such as curfew, which violates individual freedoms, must be seriously assessed in order to judge whether or not to continue in this direction. This is not the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u17	Madam Minister, a Zulte baker was fined no less than 750 euros for violating the ban on the sale of alcohol after 8 p.m. In front of his bakery, there is a beverage distributor with a few cans of beer. He was aware of the ministerial order in question, but claims to have simply forgotten the beer cans in his vending machine. During a check at 8:10 p.m., he was punished. He himself claims that a warning would have been sufficient, because it was not a malicious offence. He complied with the initial report, but when he discovered the amount of the fine three months later, he thought it was extremely exaggerated. So he hired a lawyer. Do you think the police acted correctly in this case? Don't you think a warning would have the same effect? If you feel that this is an excess of zeal, will you send a circular to avoid this kind of excess? Are you going to ask the police to encourage dialogue more often and to work more with warnings when it can reasonably be assumed that the offender was not ill-intentioned? The man claims that he was not informed of the amount of the fine until three months after the facts. However, the deadline for contesting the official report is only two weeks. However, it was above all the high amount of the fine that upset the man. How come the fine arrived so late in his mailbox? Do you see a parallel to previous reports on 14-year-olds who spent a night in prison? Do you think there is a structural problem of overzealous and unreasonable application of the rules on viruses? What do you think of the amount of this fine, 750 euros, which is very high? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u18	Dear colleague Boukili, the Operational Director of Integrated Police recommends a reasoned intervention in the control of covid measures. It is neither possible nor appropriate to comment on a particular intervention whose specific circumstances are not known. The operational director provides for a reasoned intervention, but covid offences do not require a moral element – a necessary clarification since you indicate that the perpetrator was not ill-intentioned. As with any other criminal offence, the offender has legal remedies. Consequently, the baker may bring an action. I cannot, of course, comment on the deadline for transmission, which was left to the federal and local police or the public prosecutor's office. Finally, the amount of the fine is not determined by the police, but by the College of Attorneys General according to the provisions of the ministerial decree covid.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answer. I would just like to point out that the amount – in this case EUR 750 – sanctioning an initiative that is not a voluntary offence must take into account the human aspect, not just the repressive angle. On the other hand, can one facilitate the membership of these people, when one sees a party president declaring that he does not comply with the instructions, without being punished himself? This is double standards, since the gentleman I'm talking about has been fined 750 euros. As you indicate that the police officers are acting reasonably, should we not clarify that? Home visits have in fact revealed excessive zeal in the implementation of the measures. It should therefore be better determined whether it is reasonable, so as to encourage dialogue with citizens to ensure their accession, rather than encouraging repression.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u20	Mr President, Madam Minister, you have indicated that you want to follow the evolution of the organization of the Brussels police services. As I asked you about this topic, you said that you wanted to accompany the Brussels Region in its actions to improve security in our capital. Ten years ago, a statistical observation was made of the number of Brussels police officers in the six Brussels police zones. We know the importance of this proximity, of this "vec" for the security forces when it comes to carrying out work as a neighbourhood inspector or simply interventions or patrols. The historical knowledge of the neighborhood and its sociology is a plus – it is undeniable – both for the human relational and for the calibration of the necessary security measures. The finding made at the time was particularly bad because it had been shown that in the selection phase alone only 8% of police candidates were Brussels. In addition, 25 per cent of police personnel worked in Brussels territory. This is an element that needs to be managed within the services for the Region. Indeed, today, ten years ago, the observation remains very challenging. I will certainly not tell you that, at present, in the six Brussels police zones, only one in four or even five police officers in certain areas is Brussels. In addition, training in the safety and prevention professions of secondary education as part of a "Grade 7" was very low. At that time, I had been able to participate in a report to the Prime Minister. But again, the question arises. Is that much better today? This situation remains relevant and it is high time to take up this problem with arms. Minister, what follow-up do you intend to implement in a cross-sectional manner alongside the Brussels Region as part of its security expertise? Is a collaborative methodology in place? What initiatives do you intend to implement this year to specifically improve the recruitment situation for Brussels police candidates wishing to integrate the six Brussels police zones? You have indicated in your general policy note that you want to value the 7th year of the security trades. In concrete terms, how do you intend to act at this level, in partnership with the Communities? Do you consider it useful to strengthen the ERIP, our regional police school? Do you not consider it interesting, given the specific status of Brussels, to provide additional logistical, human, technical or promotional support to this police school?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u21	We are trying to stick to the two-minute speaking time per question. Now we're way past that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u22	Mr President, Mr Pivin, first of all, I would like to stress that the powers of the Region in matters of security and those of the Federal Police and local areas are very different. My answer is based primarily on the competence of the federal police in support of local police in the area of recruitment and selection. I can assure you that the facts to which you refer worry me as much as you do. It is important that the police reflect the diversity of the society they serve. Moreover, it appears that Dutch-speaking Brusselsers do not turn to the police. The findings are there and I am committed to making efforts to address this issue. In my policy statement, I did not only commit to increasing recruitment annually to 1,600 for the core framework. I also stressed the importance of diversity in the police itself. To this end, the Federal Police Recruitment Service has developed a tailor-made campaign. This approach aims to diversify across the Region and target groups in order to stimulate young people to apply. The campaign takes place with many partners anchored in the Region or the specific field such as education networks. The campaign uses and will use many different channels. I can assure you that the federal police have heard my request and have established many new partnerships in the Brussels Region and especially with Brusafe, which is a natural partner. A partnership among all the others is made with the regular education that has been organizing for years, the 7th year security. Evaluations of this education offer were done in collaboration with the federal police. It is true that the transition from grade 7 to police engagement is not in large numbers. Regular education has, of course, called on the security professions to be able to recruit those concerned earlier in their school careers. For this reason, a defence and security career guidance board has been drawn up for young people between the ages of 15 and 18. The details of this programme are being developed by both Communities. I am very pleased with this initiative, which will help us recruit more candidates earlier in their school career. We therefore hope that those concerned can be better prepared. The 7th year of security has its own raison d'être and will continue to exist, according to our information. The police are just a client partner like the Defence or the fire department. As far as the ERIP is concerned, I must refer you to what I have already said. The school depends on Brusafe according to the competences assigned by the Region. The federal police consult with the PRRA as they do with each provincial school. It is clear that I am committed to supporting schools when I can.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u23	Minister, thank you for your responses to the many concerns I have raised. Personally, I am very sensitive to the strengthening of all the initiatives that can lead to a greater success of this seventh year that I have witnessed in the implementation. I believe a lot in this track to strengthen the Brussels presence. I would like to make this statement not out of chauvinism, but because, in my view, it is a way of promoting the strengthening of security in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u24	Madam Minister, in reply to my question a few weeks ago in order to restore young people's confidence in the police, you mentioned the meeting of the Mayor of Brussels with the Commissioner for Children's Rights, together with four young people and their parents, and announced a new meeting one month later to evaluate the actions to improve the relationship between young people and the police. You had also consulted the Commissioner responsible for children's rights on her advice on how the police should deal with young people and pointed out that she and her French-speaking counterpart had already made a range of suggestions on the problem. You yourself committed yourself to taking initiatives that will raise police awareness and improve training in this area. Steps could be taken in the short term. You also said that there were bottom-up projects aimed at restoring confidence and respect between young people and the police. Some came from civil society, others from the police zones and others from the political world. The aim is to support all initiatives in this area and to exchange and consolidate national expertise. Madam Minister, can you give me a more concrete picture of what actions were planned with the Mayor of Brussels and the Commissioner for Children's Rights in Flanders? In the meantime, did the evaluation interview take place and what were the results so far? What advice did you draw from your discussion with the Commissioner for Children's Rights on how the police should deal with young people? You yourself spoke of a range of suggestions in which you would commit yourself to taking steps in the short term. What steps have already been taken or what are in the pipeline and what timing do you stick to it? Finally, can you give me some concrete examples of the bottom-up projects to restore confidence and respect between young people and the police, who deserved your support and which you wish to consolidate nationally?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u25	There has indeed been a discussion with the Délégué général aux droits de l'enfant of the Walloon-Brussels Federation and the Mayor. It was agreed not to communicate the content of that interview. During my own meeting with the Commissioner for Children's Rights of the Flemish Community, a number of recommendations were submitted to me from reports prepared by this body. On the basis of these reports, I asked the federal police to consider which of these could be integrated in the police processes involving minors in the short and medium term and to evaluate them in the light of the so-called child test. The Commissioner for Children's Rights has undertaken to draw up and submit a concrete proposal with me in this regard. So we will certainly follow that up. In addition, there are numerous initiatives and projects to restore the relationship of trust and respect between young people and the police, such as Magda? So done, Les Cadets et cetera. I have asked the permanent committee of local police to take stock of the projects that have already been launched. On this basis, we will jointly analyse which projects can be rolled out at national level. In addition, a hackathon was recently organised by the NVV Capital which brought together young people, youth associations and Brussels policemen. The next step of this hackathon is to make a choice between different projects. If these projects run for a few months, they must also be evaluated. The hackathon also taught us that we need to involve the local authorities in Brussels even more. During my visit to the Brussels-South police zone last week, I was able to record that with the mayors and the Chief Constable. I was also spontaneously contacted by various organisations with proposals to improve the relationship between young people and the police. We are looking at how we can further strengthen these initiatives and bring them together. We will also discuss Pierre Kompany's outstretched hand to launch a campaign against racism. It is intended that this campaign will be linked to the respect campaign for and by police and aid workers, an initiative that was co-founded following my visit to Elsene last year. I then had a conversation with the policemen who had become victims of senseless violence. We can also learn from this to take initiatives. So we are not sitting still and we are involving both the police, governments and youth representatives in order to achieve a better relationship and mutual respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u26	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. I can see you're not sitting still. You've dissected a whole fan for us here. You also mentioned the Mag da? campaign. The coincidence is that I have another question about that in a moment. So perhaps we can go into that in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u27	Mr Moyaers, there is no coincidence in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u28	Madam Secretary, I will keep the question brief, but I would like to find out where she came from. Three officers were wounded, one of which was seriously incompetent for two weeks, and I read about problems with young people in the problem week Versailles on the weekend of 20 and 21 February. Whatever anonymous police sources explain about that is not a bad thing. People are talking about gangs that absolutely no longer tolerate police checks and sending out patrols with female police officers is actually not done because this would provoke more aggression. Madam Secretary, it cannot go on like this. Here's what I wanted to ask you. Can the facts that have taken place there be verified? Were any of the suspects apprehended and the perpetrators actually prosecuted? What worries me most is the following. Testimonies from political rings state that gangs in that neighborhood make it a kind of sport and can earn 'points' by attacking police patrols and wounding police officers. Is this the case? What measures can you take against this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u29	Mr President, Mrs Depootere, Mrs Chanson, the incident to which you refer took place on 21 February at 17.17 p.m. in the district known as the Versailles neighbourhood in Lower Over Heembeek. The local police, Brussels-Elsene, faced a hostile group of young people. Originally, patrols were sent on site as part of a report of a fight. According to the information, several young people were in the park, armed with sticks and knives, who attacked another group of young people. Three arrests were made. During the intervention, policemen and vehicles were crowned with various objects, such as bottles and stones. The rest in the neighbourhood could be restored after the intervention. Three policemen were unfortunately injured, two men and a woman, and a service vehicle was damaged. Police interventions in this context are always delicate. In this case, police officers must address individual and collective behaviour. A constructive dialogue with the police or administrative authorities is usually the best way to end these disturbances. The composition of the police teams is largely the fruit of chance. Most of the time, the crews are mixed. Currently, the operational framework of the police area has 515 female members, 22.78 % of the operational framework. They are used without distinction for all tasks. It is therefore wrong to say that female colleagues would not be patrolling this neighborhood. The Brussels-Elsene police zone tackles this phenomenon thoroughly with a follow-up at different levels. First of all, this is done at the level of the judicial police, by focusing on the clarification of criminal offences. Furthermore, this also happens at the level of the administrative police, by using proximity police and a reassuring visible presence by patrols with dogs or by bike. Finally, a community-oriented approach aimed at improving relations with all partners is also being taken to achieve a peaceful model of society and dialogue between young people and administrative authorities. In the area of dialogue, the police also attach great importance to a preventive approach, in cooperation with street corner workers and prevention services. Mrs Song, in terms of longer-term solutions, in order to prevent such events from happening again and to ensure that violence is reduced in this area, the local police area Brussels CAPITALE Ixelles is working on several levels, as I have just explained. In terms of staffing, this area has its own management of Proximity and Intervention and enjoys a very good percentage of retention. Of the 88 police officers assigned, over 80 per cent have been assigned for more than 33 years. Also know that 68 police officers are assigned to the Police Rescue response service and 20 work in the Proximity service as neighbourhood agents. Finally, both the police zone and the district's DPI pay particular attention to having this diversity within their workforce, in particular through recruitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u30	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer, but I have a few comments to make. This is a Brussels area where the problems do not date from yesterday, problems have been identified even in 2015. So we're gonna have to change the rifle shoulder. I am not against dialogue and I understand that prevention can contribute to a better atmosphere, but at some point the bucket of police services is full. I have the impression that there is a desire to create an atmosphere in which police services are systematically categorized as racist, discriminatory or excessively violent. As a result, the police have become wild and the perpetrators can imagine themselves to be victims. I believe that the pendulum has to go back the other way, we have to make sure that the police can do their job again without having to answer every time. Indeed, in our country, there are already numerous disciplinary and control bodies for police forces. We need to keep the balance and support the police in her work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u31	Minister, we were able to hear from you about the re-establishment of trust between the police and young people. The harmful events that have occurred may have occurred at other times and in other neighbourhoods. This shows the importance of the work to be done because some young people no longer trust or fear the police. Relations with the police in some quarters are very complicated. It is therefore necessary to restore a real role as a neighbourhood agent, a real local police force in more complicated neighbourhoods. I'm not saying we have to send dozens of police officers, at the risk of fuelling tensions. According to some trade union officials, the share of administrative work is much higher than that on the ground. We must therefore work to restore a true community policing profession and to promote a real status as a neighbourhood agent. An effective neighbourhood agent could, in particular, restore confidence with young people, but provided he did not intervene a few days later in a repression mission, that would make no sense. The neighbourhood officer must have a real social role, a dialogue role, and take the time to build strong ties with youth and neighbourhood structures. Minister, I know that you are aware of the situation and I hope that we can find solutions together to improve the role of community policing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u32	Minister, the government agreement set an extremely ambitious target for the recruitment of police officers. We discussed this during your policy briefing. It is clear that this may involve additional work within police academies. Therefore, I would like to know what objectives you set yourself to support and guarantee the capacities of the academies to receive and learn. In addition, we spent the first two months of the year, and I would like to know where we are in the recruitment of the 1,600 new police officers. Could you therefore answer the following questions? What services will be responsible for the selection and training of new recruits scheduled for 2021? Has a state of logistics and personnel management in academies been completed recently? Is there any consultation between your departments and the directorates of the academies? What measures have been taken in this framework to ensure that their services are strengthened and adapted, with a view to achieving the target of 1,600 police officers per year? What is the status of the selection and engagement of these new recruits in March and what are the forecasts for the coming months? What exactly is the budgetary trend of federal grants to academies? Clearly, is it true that federal staffing will decline in 2021? Moreover, what percentage of the operating allocations of the academies in the country represents this federal contribution? I have one last more practical question about my burgundy job. I leave it to you to answer it or not. The curfew is set at midnight today in Wallonia. I am requested by the Horeca regarding take away and deliveries, which are always set at 10:00 p.m. or 8:00 p.m. if there are alcoholic beverages. If you will answer me or at least take it into account for the next stop you will take, you would raise an incomprehension on the fact that the time for the take away and the deliveries is not modelled on that of the curfew. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u33	Mrs Taquin, your last question is quite new!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u34	I know that, but it can serve me in my work as a mayor, because it is not easy to have the answers, especially since they arrive after the implementation date. This can certainly also help other mayors of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u35	You take every opportunity... but you're right!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u36	Mr President, Madam Minister, we have been able to exchange on various occasions in previous commissions on the recruitment and training of our police officers, in view of the various measures you have taken. Here, I am particularly interested in the police academies that will be on the front line of the measures taken in connection with the recruitment of 1,600 police officers. The number of police officers recruited will increase considerably in the coming weeks. Minister, what is the current federal staffing for police academies? Do you intend to make it evolve, given the number of recruits we know and the number of aspirants we would like to reach? Finally, have you had any contact with the directorates of the academies of our country on this subject? Are they planning to expand their administrative and teaching staff? It will be necessary to be able to respond structurally to the needs in the context of the increase in the number of recruits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u37	Madam Minister, it has come to our mind that training in Belgian police schools has been provided mainly via video-conferencing for many months. While there are many theoretical aspects that can be transmitted via a screen, other aspects do not seem to be able to avoid contact between trainers and aspirants, nor between them - if only with regard to the mastery of physical skills such as self-defence techniques. Minister, can we know the impact of measures to combat the spread of the virus on the smooth running of police training? Have there been any difficulties due to the current conditions? If so, have any solutions been or are they being considered? Finally, in view of the possible impossibility of carrying out certain training modules, have there been or are there any postponements?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u38	Colleagues, the Federal Police Recruitment and Selection Service is responsible for the recruitment procedures planned for this year. These will be best distributed among the various police schools in order to follow their training. In order to achieve the objective of recruiting 1,600 personnel, a permanent dialogue is taking place between police schools and the management of federal police personnel. To fulfil this commitment, the recruitment of 63 staff members – both civilian and police – continues. These will be distributed among provincial schools, as well as in the Recruitment and Selection Service. The logistical equipment required for the operation of these new staff is planned and will be made available to them as they arrive. The federal grant programmed this year for provincial schools will remain at least at the same level as in 2020 and will normally be supplemented by the necessary funding from the €50 million envelope allocated to the federal police for 2021. Mr Senesael, as an essential sector, it has always been essential that the police continue to carry out their tasks and that training continue to be carried out in the best possible conditions. Therefore, every effort has been made to ensure that the impact of the health crisis on police training is as limited as possible, while respecting health and safety measures. Training therefore takes place mainly from a distance. After a small effort of adaptation for trainers and aspirants, it was found that this method did not give rise to any particular difficulty for the theoretical modules. In addition, exams identical to those of previous promotions were used to assess the acquisition of theoretical skills. As you rightly point out, some aspects of police training require a physical presence. These are therefore presented in the form of a presentation, as far as compliance with health measures permits. Otherwise, postponements are organised to ensure both the health security of the participants and the quality standards of training within the integrated police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answers. As far as take away is concerned, I have no doubt that you will be attentive to it for the next ministerial decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answers, which I am satisfied with.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answers, which demonstrate your investment and interest in training.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u42	Madam Minister, on 7 January 2019 the Antwerp police zone launched the website www.magdapolitie.be. On that website young people will find answers to their questions about rights and obligations. For the campaign, the police cooperates with a consultancy firm, internal experts and local youth work organisations. With the Mag da? campaign for young people, the Antwerp police area wants to give more information about the rights and duties of the police and young people. There is little known about the rights and obligations of citizens in the field of security. Research was carried out among young people and tried to formulate answers to the most frequently asked questions, which are legally correct but at the same time easy to understand. The campaign was mainly distributed through Instagram and Facebook. With the initiative, the police aim to avoid misunderstandings between policemen and young people and increase mutual understanding. Madam Minister, first of all, the campaign was launched about two years ago. What were the findings? Has an evaluation already been made? Secondly, can the Antwerp police form an idea of the way in which young people are effectively achieved with the campaign? Now, two years after the launch, is the police still cooperating very actively? Thirdly, are there any other areas that saw the campaign as a good practice and have rolled out? Finally, would you commit yourself to providing other areas with the campaign's tool in order to better deal with young people? Especially in student cities, that doesn't seem unimportant to me. The theme has also been burningly topical in Ghent and in Leuven.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u43	Mr Moyaers, in January 2019 the Mag da? campaign was indeed launched as an online campaign tailored to young people about their rights and duties in relation to the police. The Magda Police website contains ten common questions from young people about police and also allows to ask additional questions. In 2019, the Antwerp police zone received 209 additional questions via the website. In addition, 15 internal workshops for employees and external workshops for youth work and other partners have been given. In 2020, the police zone received 68 questions. At the end of 2019, the police zone established that more could be done on additional online promotion via social media. That was the intention for 2020. However, this additional promotion has been deviated from because of the COOVID-19 pandemic. The rapidly changing situation and measures called, on the one hand, for priority to be given to direct contact with youth activities in order to explain the measures in force and to make cooperation arrangements. In addition, it was decided not to actively promote the Mag da? campaign as a youth channel during the corona period in order to avoid becoming an additional information channel on corona, which would not work and may cause confusion, given the sometimes rapidly changing information on corona enforcement by the police. However, there was still an active reference to the Mag da? campaign. The plan is to restart the promotion as soon as the corona period stabilizes. Also in the context of the integration course, the Mag da? questions are used to provide information to newcomers in the city of Antwerp in an easily accessible way. I don't know about a benchmark to other zones. In 2019 the project was described in an article in Cahiers Police Studies. Of course interested zones can contact the Antwerp police zone to obtain the necessary information. It was also found that young people from outside the city of Antwerp, i.e. from other cities and municipalities, asked Mag da? questions to the police area of Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u44	Madam Minister, you have given a very clear answer to almost all of my questions, and thank you for that. I do not think it is so obvious in corona times to continue to roll out the Mag da? campaign, but it is certainly worth looking at the continuation of that initiative, once we have the pandemic under control.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u45	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 55014597C and No. 55014598C by Mr Dallemagne have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u46	Mr President, first of all, I have not understood very well the reason for the referral to this committee of the question which I had addressed to the Minister of Justice and which is very similar, if not identical. Of course, I am not going to ask the question twice in the same terms. Would the minister have an explanation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u47	Mr Pivin, I have no information on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u48	It is, it seems, a misalignment. No matter what, I will deal with the substance directly and I am sure that the Minister will have some answers to give me. Mr President, Madam Minister, you may have been able to read, in a press article of 11 February 2021, the words of the Police Watch coordinator saying: "There is a very strong body spirit within the police. Reason why we do not advise to file a complaint in a police station" or "Warning! The prosecutor often tends to want to protect his police and believe the word of the sworn policeman more than the citizen." I've been told by those words. I have therefore visited the Human Rights League's PoliceWatch.be website and have found, I confess, troubling, dangerous, sometimes contemptuous comments, in any case driving social tensions and which are certainly fuelling not only anti-police movements but also discriminating against our health services. More concretely, reading reports all – it's important! – stamped with official support from the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, we can also read that there would be a state of submission, of infantilisation of health personnel vis-à-vis the police. I have quoted the terms in the question that was put to you, minister. Here I quote only a few small examples. Page 5 of a booklet on the medical certificate reads: "The medical profession has become the target of police violence." And on page 7: "The doctors are placed in an infantilizing position by the police officers." "Emergency services carry out rapid examinations that result in summary arrests."(...) "The police presence is anxiogenic or even violent among the emergency personnel." You have references to the pages of the brochures where these words appear. I conclude with the phrase on "youth on the line" in a brochure of the Police Watch report of June 2020, with very eloquent illustrations and drawings of firearms. And that, while we lived in Brussels only a few weeks ago, threats and riots were quite large in several neighbourhoods. There is also a wanted poster that illustrates a policeman with a reward at the key. Here are some elements that I personally found – and I am not the only one – unworthy and hateful of our rule of law. Therefore, Madam Minister, what is the legal status of this "observatory" initiative of the police services and the PoliceWatch.be website of the association of the League of Human Rights? Has an analysis of the writings and statements been carried out by your services in this area? What is your own analysis as a minister of such statements and pamphlets? What initiatives have you taken or intend to take in this regard? Have you received any recommendations from this association regarding the work of our police officers? If so, what are your answers? I found that the initiative receives public money to realize and disseminate these messages. This is an important financial fact which undoubtedly lends some credit to the texts. Can you tell me whether the Department of the Interior has made contacts with the Wallonia-Brussels Federation in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u49	Mr President, Mr Pivin, I am not aware of the exact legal status of the two organisations. But as long as an organization complies with the law, I see no problem. The right of association has long been acquired in our democracy. The Federal Police shall take note of and consider with interest any report and publication relating to its operation. It is also always ready for a constructive exchange with NGOs without falling into a polarizing debate, in order to improve police operations and ensure respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens. I will give a very concrete example. From the "Stop Ethnic Profiling" platform, the Human Rights League, in collaboration with other NGOs, made recommendations to the integrated police. Subsequently, the Commissioner-General consulted the directors and experts of these NGOs. In the framework of the National Action Plan against Racism, the integrated police therefore maintain constructive contacts with NGOs, including the Human Rights League. The police services take seriously all acts of racism, discrimination and undesirable behaviour of staff members and wish to cooperate in any initiatives that contribute to their avoidance. The integrated police will also undertake actions to develop and strengthen the management of this signal function. I regret, however, that some organisations are denigrating the police without any nuance, which does not really contribute to the debate. On the contrary, it creates a kind of global mistrust of the police services. This also reduces positive communication efforts that the police can implement. Such denigration could even, involuntarily, contribute to some form of violence against the office, as can be seen from the recorded figures on violence against police personnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u50	Madam Minister, thank you. You used the right word, the word "denigration." I have a great deal of respect for the Human Rights League and for its work, for its role as a guardian that is important in our democracy, but here there is obviously a slippage. Words are false, tendentious and dangerous, and they question our right. They are addressed not only to police officers but also to health professionals whose conditions depend on the public authorities. When there is infantilization towards doctors, I cannot accept these terms. We've already talked about all of this, minister. The content of social networks and the Internet carries proven risks. The amalgams made cannot be tolerated. I believe that these releases require at least an investigation and monitoring of the documents that are published. I expect you to exercise this vigilance for the sake of our rule of law and for the protection of our police officers. We cannot allow such publications to insult our police and health professionals. I therefore hope that you will show firmness in this matter so that it is corrected and not repeated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u51	Questions Nos. 55014784C and 55014785C by Mr. Franky Demon are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u52	Mr. President, Minister, in recent years, a number of dramas have occurred involving members of police services using their service weapon in a private setting. An event of this type, resulting in the death of several people whose bearer of the service weapon recently occurred in Balen – an event on which I do not wish to expand today, as the facts attached to it are terrible. We know that the regulation on the arming of the integrated police lays down the principle of the prohibition of the wearing of regulatory weapons outside the service, in order to minimise the risk of incidents (misuse by staff members or third parties, suicides, thefts, losses, etc.).). We also know that these regulations provide for exceptions based on the needs and interests of the service: one is subject to the temporary and individual authorization of the Chiefs of Staff, Commissioners General or Directors General of the Federal Police in the event of special circumstances relating to the performance of their duties; the other concerns the authorization of the carrying of arms of police officers travelling between their homes and their uniformed workplaces. Minister, are there any controls on compliance with the ban on the wearing of arms outside service hours? If so, can we get information on this? The Royal Decree of 3 June 2007 and Circular GPI 62 provide for a series of obligations and recommendations concerning, inter alia, the conservation and operation of weapons at home. Are there any monitoring arrangements for these obligations and recommendations? Finally, the Integrated Police Act imposes an obligation on police officers to contribute at all times and in all circumstances to the protection and assistance of citizens, to the observance of the law and to the maintenance of public order. In this context, are the use and wearing of arms outside hours of service by exempt police officers subject to specific conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u53	Mr Senesael, as far as your first question is concerned, this data is not centralized. The terms and conditions for the storage of arms at home are determined by the authority that issued the authorization (heads of corps, commissioner general, director general). Recommendations exist and are contained in Ministerial Circular GPI 62. However, unless the staff member concerned agrees, there is no legal possibility of checking the home of that staff member. The authority concerned must remain vigilant and be able to react to any symptoms likely to translate a potential move to action in the head of its agents. In case of doubt, the competent authority must withdraw the authorization to hold the service weapon outside the service. Police officers shall contribute effectively at all times and in all circumstances to the protection of citizens and to the assistance they are entitled to expect, as well as to respect for the law and to the maintenance of public order. Even when they act outside their hours of service, they remain subject to the legal and regulatory provisions relating to the weapons to which they are subjected during the hours of service.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u54	Minister, thank you for the quality of your answer. I simply draw your attention to the great responsibility that is left to the Chief of Staff and the Director General. Indeed, it is sometimes difficult or difficult to detect, as you indicate, the warning signs that would prevent the carrying of a weapon. For this reason, I wonder whether, for this purpose, investigations should not be carried out with a view to greater vigilance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u55	Minister, published at the end of 2020 by Committee P, the monitoring investigation "Mediation as a means of resolving citizens' complaints against police officers" is very interesting and raises a number of advantages related to the use of mediation in managing citizens' complaints against police officers. However, the monitoring investigation reveals that the Inspectorate General of the Federal and Local Police (IGP) to which the mediation mission is attached as a means of resolving a non-criminal complaint by a citizen against a police officer, has conducted very few mediations since that mission was assigned to him. The P Committee points out that there is a lack of investment and a lack of clarity in the procedure. Minister, can we have your feedback on the review investigation of Committee P, and in particular on the benefits of the mediation process discussed? We know, and welcome, your willingness to restore a relationship of trust and respect between all citizens and members of the police service. Can we have your opinion on the role that mediation could play in this regard? Can you inform us about the possibilities for increasing the use of this procedure, particularly in the context of Circular CP3? Finally, the monitoring investigation contains several recommendations to reactivate the mediation mission within the IGA. Can we have your feedback on these various recommendations? In advance, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u56	Mr President, Mr Senesael, let me first refer to the answer I gave to Mr Verherstraeten's written question No 276 of 26 January. Mediation is already one of the Inspectorate's legal tasks. It has nothing to do with the judicial mediation provided for in the Judicial Code. In such cases, the judge who has been referred may appoint an accredited mediator on his own initiative or at the request of one or all parties. The reasons for this are diverse. In the 2007 Annual Report of the General Inspectorate, it was mentioned that the mediation procedure was not accepted by police officers who felt that it was already an implicit recognition of their responsibility in the conflict. It is true that section 7 of the General Inspectorate Act does not prevent the parties concerned from initiating legal proceedings, which means that statements made during mediation and proving the responsibility of one of the parties can always be used by the other party. This does not encourage police personnel to accept or request a mediation procedure. Statements made in the course of mediation may always be used against them, subsequently, in court. Mediation is part of the philosophy of Circular CP 1 of 27 May 2003 on community policing, of CP 2 of 3 November 2004 to encourage organizational development and, more specifically, of CP 3 of 29 March 2011 on organizational management in integrated policing. The bulk of the latter circular as well as risk management concern the local police and federal police units and are the responsibility of the agents concerned. It is the police officers who will have to take concrete steps to learn from the complaints. Therefore, mediation should ideally take place where the facts have occurred. The police officers concerned are better aware of the situation on the ground, of their staff and of their population. They are also able to take immediate steps to resolve a conflict. It should also be noted that it is simply inefficient to have the Inspectorate carry out mediation missions in all parts of the Kingdom, which would involve enormous travel and waste of time. Nevertheless, it can play a second-line role. The issue of mediation is linked to the following focus of my policy statement on the General Inspectorate, which includes the following sentence: "In addition, it will be discussed how to strengthen existing agreements and synergies with the P Committee and the internal oversight services of the Federal Police and the local police in order to avoid duplication." In this context, the Inspectorate-General therefore considers that mediation is primarily the responsibility of the basic police services, and in a second stage, in the context of an appeal procedure, of a monitoring body that remains to be defined.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic396x.u57	Mr President, to conclude this sitting, I would really like to stress the quality of the Minister's answers, who is committed to bringing forward proposals, solutions, and the follow-up of these questions by her services.
