ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u1	Madam President, Minister, today there is a difference in treatment between two categories of employees with incapacity for work. On the one hand, those who have not yet reached pension age. On the other hand, those who pursued their career beyond the legal age of pension without taking it, and who reached that age when they were unable to work. The former are entitled to work incapacity benefits as long as their incapacity to work persists over time, while the latter are deprived of them from the first day of the month following the month in which they reached the legal age of pension. They are obliged, in order to benefit from a replacement income, to assert their right to a pension. Thus, persons who choose not to take their retirement pension immediately are deprived of their incapacity for work benefits, in order to continue to form pension rights, whereas there is no evidence to suggest that such person will not be able to return to work quickly after reaching the legal age of pension. Minister, are you considering amendments to the Compulsory Health Care and Benefits Insurance Act in order to restore equal treatment for workers with incapacity for work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Thémont, this situation was recently examined by the Constitutional Court in its judgment No. 100/2021 of 1 July 2021 following a question referred by the Labour Court of Liège for a preliminary ruling. The Court held that Article 108(1) of the Law on Compulsory Health Care Insurance and Coordinated Allowances was unconstitutional on 14 July 1994, in so far as it deprived of incapacity for work benefits from the first day of the month following the month in which the legal age of the pension was reached for persons who did not take their retirement pension at that time, and in respect of which there was no evidence to suggest that they would not be able to return to work within a reasonable period of time after reaching the legal age of the pension. Although the consequences of this judgment are limited to the dispute in which this question was referred for a preliminary ruling, I have asked my administration to analyse this judgment and its consequences in order to provide a structural solution given the general scope of the situation invoked. In this context, however, it should be noted that the Court has had to rule on a regulation which has, in the meantime, already been amended. Indeed, after the amendment made by the Law of 7 April 2019 on the social provisions of the Employment Agreement extending the period to which the worker is entitled after the month in which he reaches the statutory pension age (up to six months instead of a maximum of two months), it has also been provided that a worker who becomes unable to work before the first day of the month following the month in which he reaches the statutory pension age may continue to be compensated under certain conditions from that day for the remaining six months from that date. My administration will present this analysis and a structural solution to the INAMI Committee for the Management of Disability Insurance for Employees at its meeting on 20 October, which will allow for an in-depth discussion with the social partners and insurers. Secondly, I intend to present a structural solution to the members of this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u3	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. Of course, I welcome your initiative. You say that you want to find a structural solution to this problem and that you will have discussions with the social partners later this month. I will then allow myself to come back to you to know the result and the proposals you will make to find this structural solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Willaert's 55020679C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u5	Minister, in previous questions and interventions we have repeatedly raised the problem of the favourable RSZ scheme for top sportsmen. In the end, we are told by the press that both you and Minister of Finance Van Peteghem will submit proposals to the government to amend the existing legislation, which is considered unjust. What specific proposals will you make? What financial impact will these measures have? Do you envisage transitional measures to allow clubs to adapt their remuneration policies to the new regime? When do you think the new regulation will come into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u6	This dossier is currently under discussion within the government. I would like to conclude these discussions as soon as possible and amend the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u7	Your answer was very short. I'll wait for the new arrangement. The existing regime is very complicated and, moreover, does not apply to trainers and referees, who pay RSZ on their full salary. That is strange, because they too play a major role in sport. Our group wants fair taxation, with the strongest supporting the weakest, which is not the case at all with the current regime. I am also convinced that you share that view. In the light of the Belgian football scandal that has been in control of the media for several days now, we should rightly ask ourselves about the behaviour of certain players in sport. Exceptions for the elite are no longer acceptable. That's class tax. The general public sees with sad eyes that certain people seek the limits of what is possible. Major sacrifices are being made by the population and many people will feel the rise in energy prices very hard. It would be a privilege for you and the government to strive for fair taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u8	Minister, last week Voka's little balloon about the fit note was already in the Chamber for questions and I will not repeat my explanation. You replied that during the budgetary conclave you would present a plan of action concerning, among other things, the fit note and the long-term sick. How was your plan received? Can you get on with it? According to the Court of Auditors, there is a lack of advisory doctors. How will you solve that problem? It also pointed to communication problems between general practitioners, counseling doctors and occupational physicians. What is your solution to that? What is your opinion on the role of the general practitioner in view of the fact that he has not received specific training on partial reintegration in the workplace? Don't you fear an overload on the GPs? They already pulled the alarm, among other things, because of the many tests in the framework of the COVID-19 pandemic? Will you not burden them with the fit note any more?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u9	Minister, I expect to hear your reply from you just now to all my questions. You may also know that we ourselves had a proposal about the fit note that is a little more nuanced than what is in the press. We want to get off the binary thinking of sick or not sick and look back at what people can do. It is also a collaboration between GP, employer, employee and company doctor. I refer to the written version of my questions. They're very specific questions, but I suspect I'm asking them a week early.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u10	Ms. Merckx is not present, so her question becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u11	Minister, I will not go into detail, but I found it funny that the N-VA proposal was discussed here last week around the fit note and that Voka went to the press the next day with almost the same proposal. Voka's way of thinking is that people who get rest because they're sick aren't worth anything. If people don't make a profit, they don't make much difference to Voka. Instead of looking for the cause of the towering number of long-term sick people, they are simply looking for a way to pursue them further. I said that last week and will keep saying that because I know you know your files. The cause of these figures is, of course, a subject that Voka did not want to raise. I do not hear that anywhere, because that will bring us to an impossible retirement age and nobody wants to talk about it. It should also be noted that the problem lies not so much with doctors who declare their patients ill for a long time. Doctors are best placed to assess what their patient can or can't do. We find, on the contrary, that many employers are not prepared to do so, which is our problem, and the figures do not contradict the need to provide for adapted work, which is why I have a few questions for you, Minister. What is your opinion on Voka's proposal? In what way does your approach to activation differ from the hunt for long-term sick people that Voka wants? Do you think that the fit note will effectively lead to more employment tailored to the long-term sick? In what way does the government intend to encourage employers to provide adapted jobs tailored to those people? I really want an answer to that. Are you also prepared to tackle the cause of the long-term illness and to reduce the retirement age again?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u12	Minister, for my part, I associate myself with the questions that have just been asked by a question that I myself have tabled and which has been attached to these questions. However, I am not sure that we are really talking about the same thing because I was referring to the question of the short-term certificate. This is therefore another problem than the reintegration of long-term patients, which we have already had the opportunity to discuss in this Committee on Social Affairs a few days ago, as Mrs Van Peel said. Of course, it is also a concern for environmentalists. The question I wanted to ask today is the removal of short-term medical certificates when a person is ill for one, two or three days. One might imagine that there is no need to call on general practitioners. That is one of their expectations. As far as we are concerned, we had observed pilot experiments in other countries and we had thought that this could ease doctors administratively and allow people who would only be ill one or two days to recover, anticipate the disease that would worsen and return to their workplace more quickly. Minister, what is the status of these reflections that were the subject of a media release less than 48 hours ago? Finally, I would like to apologize for the very late submission of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u13	Madam President, Mrs Van Peel, I will answer a little more in depth than the previous question, although I am in the same situation. The issues before us are currently being discussed within the government. My deontology as a minister is actually that one prefers not to communicate about it, because one must first have a fully supported decision within a government before one begins to communicate with the public from the executive. That is my view. However, I will reply in more detail because some of the answers I give are related to decisions that we have already taken in the government. I want to make it clear immediately that we are currently discussing within the federal government the strengthening of the approach to the reintegration of long-term ill people. I'm also really asking for that discussion within the federal government. For me, strengthening means building on what I have already proposed: the appointment of back-to-work coordinators to the sickness funds and a number of improvements in the process and in the flow of information, in particular on the certificate of incapacity for work, its digitisation and the sensitisation of general practitioners. These are elements that have already been decided by the federal government and which I have already made public. I consider them to be a kind of first step or first building block, and I was actually asking for a number of building blocks to be added in the context of the current budget council in the federal government. Building blocks related to employers' accountability and regional response. The latter is very important, because in the end it is the Regional Ministers for Work who have to focus on pathways in which people from the federal level are referred to as seeking employment or fit to resume work. There is therefore also a question for the Regions. In addition to the responsibility of employers and regional governments, there is also a piece of responsibility of the sickness funds and doctors. Finally, there is indeed a responsibility for the people involved. So I want a comprehensive plan approved within the federal government, which, on the one hand, still requires federal resources but, on the other hand, we hope that it will eventually be able to reduce federal expenditure on health insurance, with the main objective of improving people's well-being and health. I said in a meeting a while ago that I am not the Minister for the Budget. I'm the health minister. But the Minister for Health also considers it important that people who are long-term ill get more opportunities to get back to work. This is also good for their well-being and health. It is of course also important for the sustainable financial health of our social security. I will not say anything about that comprehensive plan today, because we are discussing it within the government. In this comprehensive plan the idea has indeed emerged of the obligation to abolish a certificate if one cannot work because of a short-term absence. That has not yet been decided, but it has been published in the press and I have therefore given a little bit of explanation in the press. I have said that the proposal to abolish this disease note in the event of short-term absence, but I have also said in the press that this should be part of a broader story, as far as I am concerned, with the responsibility of the prescribers, the responsibility of the sickness funds, the responsibility of the employers, and the responsibility of the people concerned being more clearly defined. I hope that I can come out of the budgetary conclave with a comprehensive and ambitious plan. You are right, Madam President, that we really must make a difference between the short-term certificate, which is actually used to obtain the guaranteed wage, and the certificate for incapacity for work, which is sent to the sickness fund and which must be seen by the medical adviser. Those are different issues, but I'll take everything together. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give elements of answer which refer to policies that have already been decided, and for the rest, as in the previous question, Mrs van Peel: wait, we are discussing this within the federal government. But I hope I can make you happy when we come up with the federal government's decision. Sending the so-called sickness note to an employer does not in itself open up rights in benefit insurance. Moreover, that sickness certificate is compulsory only if there is a collective agreement or a regulation which provides that it is compulsory or at the employer's request if it is not provided for in a collective agreement or in an employment regulation. In previous communications I referred to the electronic disease attestation and the important digitisation of that process. By this I mean effectively the certificate of incapacity for work which the worker must send within the time limits referred to in the questions to the doctor of the sickness fund so that the state of incapacity for work can be recognized by the sickness insurance institution. It is already possible today to resume work during the period of guaranteed pay after the recognition of the state of incapacity for work, subject to the authorisation of the medical adviser. A person who carries out an activity during the period of guaranteed pay with the agreement of the medical adviser, in accordance with Article 100 (2) of the Coordinated Law, and whose incapacity for work has been recognised, enters the benefit system and receives an invalidity benefit together with the salary obtained through this work resumes. From then on, the normal cumulation rules will also apply. The amount of the benefit shall be reduced, depending on the volume of work carried out, with an exemption of 20%. Thus, for example, a half-time job resumption reduces the benefit by 30%. This benefit can then be combined with the salary acquired through that half-time job resumption. A resumption of work with the authorisation of the doctor during the period of guaranteed pay is very little in practice. Moreover, most workers do not declare their incapacity to work with the doctor until the period of guaranteed pay has expired. The sooner people get back to work, the better for all parties. In itself, this does not require a new instrument. A person may work part-time during the period of guaranteed pay, provided that the doctor of the sickness fund is already involved and that process is already in progress. Strictly speaking, therefore, there is no need for a new instrument. However, a culture is needed in which discussions on adapted work due to medical problems can be conducted informally and without many procedures. Fortunately, this often happens in this way, informally and within the existing procedures. Now I come to the area of the debates we are currently having in the federal government. I agree that the general practitioner has a very important role to play in this. The general practitioner needs to become more aware of the good and the evil of a sick note. Within the Commission 4 of the National College of Social Insurance Medicine, we are currently working on worksheets to advise general practitioners on when, why and how to discuss reintegration. In combination with a targeted and easy referral to a back-to-work coordinator or an occupational physician, I think that will have more impact than another type of certificate waiting for processing somewhere. Mrs Sneppe, we must be effective in ensuring that we do not overload the general practitioners. If we ask the general practitioners to provide additional information, then something must be done about it. We are in the process of adapting to the existing disease attestation. The most important thing is that we want a digital certificate. In addition to the mandatory data, a number of boxes are also provided for non-compulsory information. Among other things, information about the work can be provided. In this respect, I would also like to respond to Mrs Leroy's question. Their impact, i.e. the reform of the certificate giving entitlement to benefit, the digitalisation and the flow of information that is in progress, is in full swing and is taking place within the Mult-eMediatt project, in which all stakeholders are involved through their presence in the steering committee. The concept of the fit note, an excellent concept, is actually embedded in the process we need to organise. Voka proposed the introduction of a fit note. However, there is no need to design a whole new type of certificate, to be sent by the GP. Moreover, I very much doubt whether the general practitioner can do that. What's needed is a trial. That whole process creates something like a fit note. In this process there is indeed the electronic certificate which must be used to determine the right to benefit and the information associated with it. It also contains the quickscan, which must be done sufficiently quickly, to determine the situation of the person unable to work. It also includes the processing of this information by the sickness funds, the medical adviser and also the return-to-work coordinators, as well as any contacts that may be made with the occupational physician. The system as a whole must bring about what one envisages with a fit note. Someone is unable to work, but as soon as possible and as far as possible the chances of getting back to work are being looked at. Mr Colebunders, that does not happen in a repressive way. We must do this in a positive way. It's about looking up the possibilities that people still have. Some people will have no options at all, because they are ill to the extent that return to work is excluded or is not possible in the foreseeable future. So we will also have to distinguish between the situation in which people find themselves. This includes the quickscan, which is the questionnaire that we want to fill out quickly. However, the process must bring about what one envisages with a fit note. Mrs Van Peel, I agree with you. We need to get rid of black and white thinking about disability and binary thinking. One of the points for which I hope to get a green light in principle in the budgetary conclave is to examine the possibility of declining employment. This means that someone who is working reduces his or her work volume to be able to continue working, despite, for example, medical treatment or a fluctuating condition. In this way, people can be avoided being completely set aside. So, Mr Colebunders, I do not want to hunt down people who are sick. There is also a different problem for people who are ill than for those who are unemployed. It's not the same thing. All the persons concerned, the sickness funds, the employers and all the doctors involved in the process, from the general practitioner to the medical specialist, the medical adviser at the sickness fund, the occupational doctor and the doctors at the RIZIV, must be consulted on what they can contribute to an approach that can give people opportunities. That is the meaning of responsiveness for me. There must be a balanced exercise, in which the regions have a very important role to play. I think they will have to play a more important and ambitious role than they do today. I would also like to reiterate that I have to work with other federal colleagues in this area. The Minister of Work also has a role to play in this, as does the Minister of Civil Service, because I think we should address the same problem. The Minister responsible for the self-employed is also involved. I want to work on the basis of a lot of consultation. Mr Colebunders, the reasons why we see a strong growth in the number of people who are long-term ill are diverse and complex. Everybody's gonna agree with that. This is certainly due to the fact that early retirement and early retirement have been made more difficult, but it also has to do with other factors. In substance, we want a society in which people can stay active for longer and be happier in their active lives, while people facing medical problems get help. This also has to do with what we want to do in mental health care, because a third of people who are long-term ill have mental problems. This must be addressed in mental health care, preferably preventively. Colleagues, the idea of the fit note that I have already presented to Parliament and the public, I would like to add a number of building blocks, giving us a strong and comprehensive strategy to get people who are long-term ill back to work. I hope to be able to tell you more about this after the budget conclave.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u14	I would like to thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. It was at least longer than the answer my colleague had just received. You say that it is still being discussed by the government and that you will not come out with it until after the talks. I understand that, of course, but I hope that Parliament will come first and that you do not go to the press first and that Parliament must hear everything through the press. This is becoming the custom of the government. You say that the first building blocks have already been laid, that you will now move on to a comprehensive plan and that you hope that you will get it approved. You will then talk about resposabilisation in people, sectors and levels. Of course that is good, employers need to be sensitized, like doctors, patients etc. I hope that you will indeed take into account the general practitioners and the workload that this will entail. There have long been good intentions to get long-term sick to work. Long-term sick people are often also themselves asking parties, provided it is obviously about adapted work and provided it is done in a human way, without witch-hunting. So do it with due regard for the well-being and health of the patient and, of course, in consultation with the employer, who therefore provides adapted work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u15	Minister, your answer was indeed more extensive than expected. I'm gonna be honest, opposition or not, this is a file that is very close to your heart. That's what people feel from your whole answer. Frankly, I fully agree with the great principles of your answer. But of course we will wait and see what the translation of these principles will ultimately be, Minister. That's always the exciting part. I very much support the parts you mentioned. I would particularly like to thank you for at least showing your willingness, and that is a willingness which I am much less aware of among my colleagues from the majority here in Parliament, to look at opposition proposals and to take some of them on board. After all, I have discovered some common visions here and there, which we put on the table a long time ago. So to be continued. I hope I can stay as positive when you land shortly, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u16	Mr Minister, I am better placed to ask my questions to the newspaper these days, because there I get different answers from you. I am reading something other than what you are replying to me in De Tijd today. That is where you say that you agree that long-term sick people will be sanctioned. Time doesn't strike me as a gossip. Today, therefore, we have more complete answers than you have. I fully agree that you are an expert on the subject, but, once again, what you have come to tell me today... you are somewhat right that the limitation of the bridge pension and the end-of-life scheme have an impact. What is the reality, however? A person in SWT is immediately put to work the day after entering the system. Long-term sick are called up by the VDAB the day after the start. You're looking at me, Minister. I'm in that world and I'm going through reality every day. The unions are furious about your reaction in Time. This isn't gonna help anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u17	Mr. Colebunders...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u18	No, Madam President, the clock is not right, because I wasn't talking that long. There will be a round of dismissals which one does not know where it is going to end, Minister. You already know that, and you know I'm right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u19	Colleagues, I would like to pay attention to the chronometer and avoid systematically extending interventions from 20 to 60 seconds. This greatly increases the work in committee. I will not fail to remind you when all the colleagues are here. The deadlines may be reviewed, but this would require a real discussion on the issue. I therefore ask you to make an effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u20	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u21	Unfortunately, I cannot say anything about the administrative costs of the sickness funds. You're referring to possible savings. All discussions on savings are currently being held in the government. I really can't anticipate that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u22	It is about 2 billion euros savings on the health insurance funds. Then it's not about a little note, is it? The serious health crisis that we have had has caused a huge overload. Didn't we really learn anything from that? What influence do you think that the increasing number of long-term sick people has on the sickness funds? In my view, this has serious consequences for their operation. You also want to save money on the financing of mutual assistance insurance companies. In other words, the future does not look rosy. Clearly, we are not learning from the mistakes we have already made by saving on health policy. If we also save on the health insurance funds now, I really don't know where that will end.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament 55021380C by Mrs Depoorter is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u24	Mr Minister, you can see how much I am concerned about the dossier on reintegration projects. I have three further questions on this matter. You have already explained the principles in your previous reply. Unless you don't have any further answers, I'd like to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u25	I'll try to sum it up. You ask when we can start back-to-work paths again and how fast such a journey goes. As I have just said, I want to launch the journey back to work quickly. Therefore, a decision on the return-to-work coordinators was needed. I have already received budgetary resources for this, even though I still have to be confirmed in the budget conclave. This has already enabled the health insurance funds to be asked for attention. We are therefore preparing this route, starting with the training of the coordinators. That's important. When can we contact the return-to-work coordinator? That's from day one. We want to prevent workers who become ill from facing a blind wall from day one. They should be able to contact the coordinator immediately, starting from day 1, with their questions about their future at work or with questions about other work. The return-to-work coordinator will contact the persons concerned themselves and they can also contact the coordinator themselves, even if they are still in the period of the guaranteed wage. Through the system that we want to use with the new approach, anyone who can work will be contacted by the back-to-work coordinator himself, depending on the assessment that one makes, including on the quickscan, which we want to implement. This initiative is based on the return-to-work coordinator of the sickness fund. The legislation stipulates that this assessment should be made at eight weeks. That has proved to be a good theory. In reality, this is a difficult working period, which one never achieves. Also, having a questionnaire answered in eight weeks is not necessarily efficient. Let me give you an example. If everyone is sent a questionnaire after four weeks of incapacity for work, they must send and process 350,000 questionnaires. If you take eight weeks, there are already 100,000 less, and if you take ten weeks, there are another 40,000 less. A step-by-step approach is needed for both the unemployed and the long-term unemployed. With a very quick performance, many people are reached. Part of it is dead weight. One must act quickly enough, but not too quickly. In any case, the first intervention is a broad intervention, because it is a large group. It must not be an expensive intervention, because that is not good in terms of a cost-benefit analysis. Then we need to focus our interventions more on the needs. Gradually, a smaller group is coming into sight that needs intense help, for which there are more targeted and more expensive interventions. Long ago, the VDAB developed a concept of such a kicked model. There are, of course, too few consultative doctors to do all the work properly, but unfortunately this cannot improve quickly. What these doctors have to do for the insured is, in a way, too broad. One cannot be both an expert in the evaluation of disability and a specialist in the search for services to take steps towards work. That is precisely why we want to support the doctors with multidisciplinary teams and the coordinating role of the back-to-work coordinator is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We will certainly have to have a broader discussion as soon as your plan is in place, because there are many aspects to the problem, some of which you have already mentioned. In any case, the hearings in committee with the same experts with whom you may also be in contact showed very clearly that the sooner one can intervene, the more chance there is of a successful course and that the longer it takes for a sick person to be contacted, the more difficult it becomes to guide them. You know my criticism of the coordinators. That is a fine principle in itself, but that instrument seems very little to me for what needs to be done. I think that the debate will soon have to be held in detail in our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u27	Mr Minister, the same story with regard to this question, I am not going to read it all. They're all partial aspects of your larger plan, so if there are any additional answers, I'd be happy to hear them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u28	Mrs van Peel, I can indeed give you an additional answer. It is about policies that we have already started within the framework of a broader whole. In the context of the amendment clause to the Fifth Administrative Agreement with the RIZIV, the Benefits Service has been charged with carrying out a study on the use of RIDO, the current communication platform that allows the treating doctors, occupational doctors and counseling doctors to exchange information on the reintegration pathways of disabled insured persons. Users have unanimously indicated that RIDO did not meet their needs. In June, the Benefits Service presented the results of the analysis to the Management Committee. On the basis of that determination, an article in the Management Agreement 2022-2024 was inserted that provides for the development of a new communication platform. The article initially provides access to the new platform for the doctors of TRIO, namely the treating physician, the occupational physician and the consulting physician, but also aims to extend long-term access to insured persons, employers, private insurers' doctors and even to the TNW coordinators and regional employment services. This is ambitious and not obvious, and it must of course be done with respect for the rules of the GDPR on data protection. A working group composed of representatives of the management committee, insurance institutions, associations of treating doctors and external prevention services has been set up to clarify the scope of the new project, its stakeholders and the necessary functionalities in the new platform. The first meeting of the working group will take place on 25 October, under the auspices of the Management Committee. Thereafter, in June 2022, the Payment Service will present a note to the Management Committee on this matter. The business analysis will then begin, followed by the functional analysis, 12 months after its validation, and by the introduction of the new platform, 24 months after the validation of the functional analysis. Until then, Mrs Van Peel, the exchange of information between the consulting physician and the occupational physician will of course remain possible via the existing RIDO platform. As there is a particular need for development with a view to sharing information with the treating doctors, priority will be given to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u29	Thank you for your answer. That's a long-term project, I hear. To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u30	Madam President, Mrs Van Peel, I hope that I will have to say a little less in the coming years that we do not know anything about figures and results from back-to-work policies, because in the light of what we have already decided on the return-to-work policy, RIZIV will be tasked with setting up a new flow of data with the insurance institutions in order to monitor the various actions in return-to-work routes better and more quickly from the service year 2022. That is what we are putting in place right now. The flow of data should be able to provide an overview of the questionnaires sent and received, the assessment carried out and all the actions of the consulting physician and the return-to-work coordinator in the context of the return-to-work path. These figures will allow us to keep a clear picture of how the policy is being implemented and what results it is achieving, including at the level of the VIs. The new Royal Decree also states that the Management Committee of the Benefits Service should prepare an annual evaluation of the actions of the preceding calendar year for the Minister for Social Affairs. These are the registrations carried out, such as precise numbers, the duration of the routes, the deadlines for sending and completing the questionnaire and the number and nature of referrals. This should allow better and correct monitoring of integration pathways. In 2024, we will also involve a scientific partner to make a thorough evaluation of the whole back-to-work policy. This should give inspiration to put result parameters on track, which is also important in this story. I am actually happy to tell you that, Mrs van Peel, so your questions are welcome in that sense, because many people did not like it very much when we announced in the press that we would appoint back-to-work coordinators, while setting up a device to monitor results is really very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u31	Minister, that is indeed very important, also with regard to the rehabilitation of sickness funds. It's really simple: I've requested a lot of numbers and it was hallucinating at times how few of them could be obtained. If there were figures then, the differences were also very large. So I am glad that you are responding to this, because it is an important piece of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u32	Minister, you recently announced that COVID-19 would be recognised as an occupational disease. The PVDA has been advocating this for a long time. It is a victory that, after such a long time, this recognition is finally being made. The problem of contamination in the workplace has really been underestimated. It is a real shame to see that you have attached unnecessarily strict conditions to the recognition. Within 14 days, a total of five people, workers or customers, must be infected with COOVID-19 and the epidemiological link between those five infections must be demonstrated. Sciensano sets the limit on two infections to speak of a cluster, so significantly lower. Also, the limit of 14 days seems too short, because some infections are passed on for weeks. Mr Minister, do you have any idea how many cases it is possible to deal with? How many clusters have been counted in the companies since the outbreak? Can the condition of five infections possibly have an adverse effect, namely in cases where employers took strict isolation measures from the second case to prevent further contamination? On the basis of what scientific advice did you choose to have an infection recognised as an occupational disease only when five infections occurred on the work floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u33	Mr Colebunders, you are asking a few precise questions, which I cannot yet answer. When drafting the draft law and the royal decree, Fedris made estimates, which the Secretary of State for the Budget expected before she could give her agreement to the draft. Those estimates were made on the basis of the available data. It goes without saying that control will be exercised as soon as the texts come into force, as is the case for any other code appearing on the list of occupational diseases. Then I will be able to answer some of your questions more precisely. I now come to your question about the amount of clusters. Contacts have been established with internal and external preventive and occupational medicine services and with the Länder institutions investigating clusters and outbreaks. I really depend on data that the Länder have to provide to me, which is somewhat annoying, but the competence for registering clusters is at that level of policy. The day before yesterday I sent a reminder to my colleagues in the Länder to ask for this information, because otherwise it could not work. I hope they see that memory and react quickly. Fedris will also actively cooperate with the competent Länder institutions to monitor clusters. In addition, there will be cooperation with occupational health services. In this way we will find out in the future how many cases we are dealing with. I will inform you about this later. The conversation we are having on this subject is not only important but also interesting. Why don't I use the definition of Sciensano when defining cluster? I have already replied to this on several occasions, the last time at the plenary session on 21 September. My answer hasn't changed. Sometimes I change my opinion, which sometimes evolves under the influence of advice, but sometimes I also stay with an opinion. That is the case here. If we want to maintain the specific nature of the occupational disease regime, we cannot simply change its essential conditions. That would also not be fair to victims of other occupational diseases. In the case of occupational diseases, causality must be possible. The conditions required under this new project which will allow for the identification of outbreaks are an essential point in the system of occupational risks. We do not want to undermine that and we do not want to create discrimination against the victims of other occupational diseases. In addition, in the case of an infectious disease, the term outbreak is used to indicate the sudden increase in the number of patients registered within a community, region or period of time. Two cases of contagion are therefore not sufficient to demonstrate a sudden increase in the number of cases relating to an undertaking. They are not therefore sufficient to determine the occupational origin of the infection, which is a sine qua non for intervention through the occupational disease scheme. These are fundamental principles that you and I do not want to touch. You asked for a counter-effect when employers take strict isolation measures after a second case to prevent contamination. According to the Welfare Act, it is the employer's responsibility to ensure the safety and health of workers in his or her company. In accordance with the Royal Decree of 5 January 2021, the prevention advisers and labour physicians play a special role in the fight against corona. The aim of the measures in the holdings is, of course, mainly to reduce the number of infections, and hence outbreaks. Prevention is central. These preventive measures are necessary not only within the company, because they reduce the number of sick and therefore absenteeism, but also in a broader public health context, because sick workers can infect their families and contacts. Let me take the example from one of the questions. If there are no more infections after two cases, we can only be happy. Mr Colebunders, I personally do not see fewer sick people as a counter-effect of regulation, quite the contrary. I don't think you see it that way. In these two cases, according to the fundamental principles of occupational risks, the determining and direct effect of the professional activity cannot be scientifically established, since such contamination may have occurred outside the workplace. The fact that, after the second case, employers are already taking preventive measures for other workers does not seem counterproductive to me. I do not believe that this is contrary to what is proposed here on the conditions for the recognition of an occupational disease. Finally, you asked about the scientific advice on this issue. I have taken effective account of opinions from different advisory bodies and experts. The Committee on Biological Agents at Fedris, in which academics and experts are present, is competent to formulate opinions for the Scientific Council, the advisory body of Fedris. These members are experts on occupational diseases and may, for example, make proposals for recognising new occupational diseases or for introducing preventive measures. The Scientific Council gave its opinion on 26 January and 6 May this year. The opinion of the Management Committee for Diseases of Fedris was delivered on 31 March. We have taken that into account. At the Council of Ministers of 23 July 2021, I submitted an overview of Fedris' scientific literature. Fedris also gave us the latest results of the monitoring of the COVID-19 infections, according to the professional sectors in Belgium. I have also submitted these figures. On that day, the texts relating to entry of code 5 concerning outbreaks were approved by the Council of Ministers. There was therefore a scientific framework for this decision-making. Mr Colebunders, that does not mean that you are and can have your own opinion on this matter. In any case, we have worked scientifically well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u34	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer. I'm telling you, it lasted seven minutes. I understand the stakes, but I think we should all try to be more synthetic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u35	Minister, it seems that we do not want to learn from our mistakes. In the event of a crisis, we will have even more moments of crisis due to the division of powers. You're doing a good thing because you recognize an occupational disease. However, we are once again dependent on Mr Beke, who has left the work to be done. We learned in the covid crisis that the division of powers between the regions and the federal level in a crisis simply does not work. That is why we must be truly concerned, Minister. I really don't know how you're gonna get those numbers. Moreover, I do not know how Mr Beke will get those figures, because a lot of employers have not recorded them at all. In this respect, I am clearly asking how we are going to proceed and whether we want this to continue in good order. I shall return to a question that I have already asked you and which I will continue to ask. What is the difference between a company of 5,000 employees with five infections and four construction workers sitting together in a van every day and driving back and forth for an hour and a half? What is the difference between five men in five thousand and those four men who will not have a recognised occupational disease?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u36	I note that it is similar to the previous debate, and it is also not always clear to me why some questions are grouped together and others are not. A while ago, the Court of Auditors published an audit on the policy on long-term ill. This highlighted a series of pain points about, among other things, the undersized guidance of long-term sick people and the fact that in some companies reintegration processes lead to dismissal rather than reintegration. There is also a lack of basic knowledge about re-integration processes. That this situation is serious, you know. Our country is heading towards half a million long-term sick people and it is high time we developed a policy on this issue. You are working on this within the government and have already announced that you would wager on 60 return coaches or back-to-work coaches by 2023. But there was also a lot of criticism about these plans because of the social partners. For example, trade unions and mutualities doubt whether these plans will suffice. Are you going to start criticizing your plan for the return coaches? Will you consult with all those involved? Are you working with the Minister of Work, the Minister of Civil Service and the Minister responsible for Self-employed? If so, will we bring an overall plan to Parliament, which includes all the statutes, or will it be dealt with by target group? Do you foresee an evaluation? Will the number of coaches be increased?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u37	It is indeed a pity that the questions were not grouped together, because I have already said a few things. The back-to-work coordinators please don't use the word 'coaches'... were part of a first step that I wanted to take quickly, to get that process going. The criticism that this is not enough was unfortunate to me. After all, it does not take into account the fact that on that first step I have already started a number of other elements, for example the whole flow of information that we need to organise. Moreover, this was only a first step in a series of steps, of which I would now like to take the following. I do believe that this first step will provide many answers to the criticism of the Court of Auditors. Unfortunately, the Court of Auditors' report was leaked to the press even before I had the opportunity to respond or discuss it in Parliament. I find that particularly regrettable for you and for me, but it has happened. I sent my response to the Court of Auditors. I hope that the correct document, with its response, will soon be discussed in our discussion. I would indeed like to work out my approach to long-term sick people in consultation with all the actors: with my colleagues, Mr Dermagne, Mrs De Sutter, Mr Clarinval, and with the Regions. Even if I have to share one big story with my fellow Members, Mr Dermagne, Mr Clarinval and Mr De Sutter, I will come to Parliament autonomously, otherwise we will be too dependent on each other in view of the many opinions we have to get, and the discussions are delayed. We are still waiting for the opinions of, among other things, the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority. My proposal already includes the in-depth, scientifically supported evaluation of the whole, not just of the back-to-work coordinators. We intend to carry out this evaluation in 2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u38	It is true, Minister, that it must be a comprehensive plan in which everyone takes responsibility, both the four competent ministers, the ministers of employment, the officials, the self-employed and the social affairs, and the regions. It should also be pointed out that employers and employees themselves, the sickness funds, and the return to work coordinators are responsible. Each has its part to play. I welcome your statement that you are taking the critical comments and have already responded to the criticism of the Court of Auditors. I would ask you to provide us with the answer in writing. Then that can be added to the report. I hope, however, that soon after we have discussed your plans, we will also be able to discuss the plans of the other ministers. As long as not all facets are worked at once, the problem remains. Initiatives will also have to be taken by the Minister for Labour. You are a little afraid of that, but I hope that we do not have to wait too long and that the Minister will come to Parliament soon enough. If not, we will not take any steps forward. Your policy must really go hand in hand with the policies pursued by the other ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u39	Mr Minister, some employers offer their employees additional insurance in the event of long-term incapacity for work in the context of an extra-legal advantage. Private insurers therefore pay a contractual contribution to cover the loss of income between the reimbursement of the sickness funds and the actual wage of the employee. These insurance companies control the incapacity of the worker concerned through their medical network and according to the modalities agreed in the general and special conditions. In accordance with their conditions, insurance companies are entitled to carry out medical checks on the basis of which the incapacity for work is accepted or not. In case of discussion there is a procedure of friendly medical expertise. These checks therefore replace the checks carried out by the sickness funds. In addition, these insurance companies have their own reintegration path, which they offer to employees who are insured by them. Do you know how many employees benefit from such an extra-legal advantage? How many employees have effectively benefited from this extra-legal advantage by 2020? Are the expertise these insurance companies carry out not duplicated with what the sickness funds carry out on behalf of social security? These insurance companies show in their communication that their reintegration process delivers good results. Do you know how they handle this and what results have been obtained? Will you consult with the private insurers to possibly achieve good practices to help the reintegration of long-term ill workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u40	Mrs Samyn, my administration does not have official information on the number of employees who receive insurance income through their employer in the event of long-term incapacity for work. In 2019, according to Assuralia, 581,000 people were covered by insurance guaranteed income through collective contracts. That kind of insurance is part of the extra-legal benefits that the employer can grant, which is not within my jurisdiction. The possible medical expertise provided by private insurance companies under this insurance scheme does not in any way constitute a duplication of work with the medical assessment carried out by the medical practitioner of an insurance institution in the context of benefit insurance, i.e. social security. In the context of benefit insurance, the consultant shall examine whether the worker has lost at least 66% of his earning capacity with a view to granting a replacement income. In the case of a private insurance guaranteed income, the agreement between the employer and the insurance company determines whether and under what conditions such an examination should be carried out, which differs from insurance company to insurance company. The minimum degree of incapacity for work required to qualify for compensation will therefore vary from insurer to insurer, as will the exclusion of insurance intervention. As for your question about reintegration routes initiated by the private insurance companies and whether we know about projects involving burn-out from AG Insurance, I can say the following. Employees of my policy cell have indeed had consultations with AG in preparation for the preparation of the plan for the return-to-work coordinators, as well as with many other actors. The need for a sustained and outreach approach are examples of elements that have proved to be useful in these projects as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u41	Mr Minister, what I said in my question shows once again that it is high time we came to a uniform arrangement between the statutes. I am not going to tell you anything new when I say that the differences between the scheme for workers and servants in the compensation for incapacity for work are completely out of line. Why does a worker get less than a servant when he's sick? We believe that this private insurance distinction will increase even further. It is not that we want to ban this, but it is now time to make real progress in bringing the various statutes closer together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u42	Minister, we are working to create a real status for cultural intermittents. He wants me to draw your attention to a specific case. As you know, the cultural ecosystem has been weakened by the crisis that has revealed the vulnerability of some forgotten occupations and functions. This is particularly the case for living models of which very little is said. These are intermittent workers who, although associated with creation, do not seem to have the same consideration. Yet they work in our academies, universities and high schools, for renowned art masters, and for workshops and other creative organizations. The learning and practice of the plastic arts often include technical and artistic exercises based on living models. They are therefore really important in the development of works, which is why they must be integrated into the world of the arts. Quebec also recognizes them a specific status while, while I am well informed, in Belgium, nothing yet exists. Despite the place they occupy in the history of art and therefore in the history of our society as well as in the relations between the artist and the work, despite their omnipresence, the professional status of the living model is devalued and remains completely unclear. As such, our group defends the status of a living model and hopes that these workers will enjoy the same recognition as an actor, dancer or singer. Minister, it is my responsibility that the Artists Commission would not directly recognize this function as eligible for its jurisdiction. Is that correct? If so, what are the arguments put forward to justify this decision? Don't you see a contradiction under the law? Moreover, this discrimination seems incomprehensible to us in view of the objectives we have set ourselves for the creation of a real status. Can you tell me, then, whether the living models are indeed integrated into a reconnaissance scope for the future project that is in our hands?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u43	Madam Chair, it would be unusual to interfere, as the competent minister, in the assessment of an individual file by the Artists Commission. In order to ensure an objective and well-informed assessment, it was decided to set up an Artists Commission composed of the public services concerned (ONSS, INAMI, ONEM), as well as representatives of employees and employers, the Communities and experts in the sector. This commission is mandated to make reasoned decisions for each individual application for the issuance of an independent certificate, an artist's card or a visa. I can confirm that the Artists Commission has decided, for a number of applications for the issuance of an artist's card, including a work as a living model, that the application file did not meet the conditions for receiving an artist's card. These individual decisions were duly substantiated. There is a possibility of appeal. You will understand that I cannot deal here with the concrete motivation for an individual file. The proposal of the Technical Working Group Working in the Arts confirms the choice of an objective evaluation of the files by an independent commission with experts in the sector. This choice allows us to take into account the characteristics of each individual application file and to arrive at a living cadastre that evolves with practice in the arts sector. It was a conscious choice not to let Parliament or the government determine in advance a fixed list of practices that fall within the scope of the specific rules for arts workers. It will thus be for the future Arts Labour Commission to decide whether an individual application file in which a living model practice is described corresponds, yes or no, to the future description of artistic, technical or support work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u44	Minister, thank you. I will check on the recognition of other professions such as actor, dancer, singer, etc. in relation to the models. Of course, there is no question of an individual and personal case in the committee. I am a little surprised by the tone that you use which is relatively assertive while the work is, it seems to me, not completed. I understand well what has been decided, that it is a conscious choice of the people who have worked on the WITA reform and that it will therefore be up to the commission to issue or not the qualifier of artist to living models.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u45	This is a conscious choice of this working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u46	I will conclude on this point. On this conscious choice that is now being made, I would like to say that everything should be put on the conditional. I have had the opportunity to point out in June and July and on many occasions that, on the question of the committee as presented and proposed by the text submitted by all the partners who have contributed to this reflection, it seems to me that there are still some reflections to be made on precisely the role of the committee. Indeed, there is no consensus on leaving the committee with the responsibility to define the cadastre and this political responsibility. These discussions will still have to take place, but I understand that it is to the question of living models that you assimilate reflection. I think we will still have an opportunity to revisit this aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u47	First of all, I would like to clarify the question of the payment of guaranteed wages in the context of a progressive resumption of work. Since 2017, the following rule applies. If the condition of the worker worsens again during the temporary resumption of work and becomes completely unfit for work again or if the worker resumes full incapacity for work during the period of temporary work for another reason.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The employer is therefore not obliged to pay the employee the balance of the guaranteed wage. For his part, the worker will receive sickness benefits on the basis of full-time employment, even though he is working part-time during the temporary work. If the worker resumes the work normally after the period of temporary work and subsequently becomes fully unfit for work after that period of temporary work has expired, the ordinary rules on the right to guaranteed pay shall apply again. A worker returning to work for a period of less than 14 days during the period of primary fitness for work, i.e. the first year of incapacity for work, shall be considered to be affected by a relapse. If the worker is disabled, after one year of primary incapacity for work, and one goes back to work for a period of less than 3 months, then one is also considered to be relapses. This means that there is not a new period of incapacity for work but that the original incapacity remains. These interruptions of less than 14 months on the one hand or less than 3 months on the other, depending on the relapse, have no financial impact on the employer. As you know, persons who are unfit for work may partially resume their professional activity with the prior consent of the medical adviser. The conditions laid down by the medical adviser with regard to the volume of work, the nature of the work, the condition for carrying out the work must be met. The worker in this situation receives, on the one hand, the wage linked to the permitted work and, on the other hand, invalidity benefits the amount of which depends on the volume of the adjusted work. Benefits shall not be reduced if the volume of the adjusted work does not exceed one fifth or twenty percent. The fact that the work authorised by the medical consultant is carried out in the company or at home does not affect the application of the current rules on the resumption of the authorised activity. It is the contractual working time that determines it. Just in order to prevent people from having to be fully disabled for at least one day in order to get back to work in the properly described systems of progressive work resumption, I am working with the RIZIV on a proposal to regulate declining employment. In doing so, the RIZIV would provide for an intervention if the worker had to reduce the work volume for medical reasons. In this way we prevent, at least temporarily, the entry into full incapacity for work. Several patient organisations have been asking for such an arrangement for years. Finally, in 2022, the FPS Social Affairs will develop a calculation tool on which people in disability and people with disabilities can easily see, in function of their own situation, what, both on a monthly and annual basis, impact on their income is in the event of a partial resumption of work. Income components, such as family benefits, will also be included.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u48	Minister, we await the comprehensive bill with great interest. I have asked you several times about the reintegration of long-term ill. It is a theme that is very close to us and you. However, there will have to be some study work and discussion in order to prevent the fit note from becoming an imposed rule and from doing more harm than good. Only if all interested parties are convinced that it has added value will the objective be achieved. The fit note will not be the holy grail of reintegration. We must all realise that, but it may be one of the means of solving the serious problem of the long-term sick. We await your design with impatience.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic593x.u49	This concludes our oral question-and-answer session of the day. I wish everyone an excellent day and a good appetite.
