ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u1	Madam Minister, I have already asked you a question on this subject. The Leopold I has to do with it again. There's a huge number of recruits in the Navy and there's ships disappearing. I am thinking of the Godetia, two months ago. At a certain point you replied that the possibility of renting Dutch or French vessels was considered. In this way, recruits can be given the opportunity to begin their careers and be trained. Can you give us an update on this? Is that another think? If so, which countries and vessels are involved? What's the plan like?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u2	Taking into account the limited number of training places available on board the Belgian Navy ships and the impossibility of fully meeting the needs on board ships of partner nations, the hiring of a civilian platform was studied. No agreement has yet been signed. It is planned that the possible agreement will start from the summer campaign 2022. A priori, only one ship will be rented. A military prospect was made at France, Great Britain and Poland. The need for training places is between 12 and 40 places, for the benefit of the Nautical School during the summer campaign. At this stage it is too early to comment on the size of the fixed crew or their cost.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u3	Madam Minister, I understand that, despite reports from the Netherlands that a number of ships would have been docked, there are no availability. But if I understand correctly, it is intended that you will hire a civilian chip during next year's summer campaign to bring a number of recruits on board. At least that seems to me to be progress. I would therefore like to thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u4	Mr President, Minister, following the national defilé on 21 July, the Navy was instructed to make available a platoon of candidate soldiers. As a result, a list of so-called uniform deficits was drawn up by the Navy. It was found that these deficits were significant, making the composition of the correct uniform for the peloton a not insignificant problem. For example, it turned out that almost no one had white gloves and apparently they had to be purchased by the military themselves. Eventually the white gloves were bought by a petty officer at the military shop in Peutie, but the soldiers they needed had to pay back personally. Many soldiers could not even participate in the defile because the famous deficit list showed that certain jackets, trousers and keys were not in stock. As far as regular military workwear is concerned, the problem is similar. I have a lot of questions about this which you will find in the written presentation of this oral question. However, in order not to bore you, I am not going to repeat them here. I am particularly looking forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u5	Mr President, Mr Creyelman, there was no structural shortage of uniforms. These were some individual cases in which soldiers of the detachment did not carry part of the clothes. Each soldier receives a costume of almost 65 euros per month or 780 euros per year. That's enough to buy the necessary clothes. The clothes delivered meet the high demands of the Defense Department, for which the best price is always stipulated. Belgium has joined the purchase of the Dutch Defence for the new clothing of the Navy. The first deliveries are expected in the second semester of 2022. In recent years, work has been carried out on structural renewal of clothing and equipment to improve comfort. For the combat clothing, a procedure is under way to renew and distribute it from the end of 2022, with a separate cut per sex. Based on the operating theatres where Defense is active, it was decided to replace the classic camouflage pattern with the colour olive green coyote brown. A new polyvalent camouflage pattern is provided for the purchase of the combat clothing. The service dress is distributed free of charge to the candidate soldiers through a first donation at the end of the first year of service, as a number of candidates do not complete the training. When a recruit starts the basic training, a first donation to combat clothing is given free of charge. A recruit who decides to leave Defense must return a large part of the clothing received, as Defence has made this clothing available specifically for the training.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u6	Madam Minister, you have answered a number of questions clearly, a number of other questions could not enjoy that clarity. This is an important aspect for our military personnel. I didn't suck this out of my thumb. This is coming from the grounds, from a number of people working for the Defense Department. This contrasts with the denial of the problem you are raising here. If you really mean it with your POP plan, which I am assuming, then you must also tackle the uniform deficits, no matter how structural or non-structural they are. This is also part of working conditions. In order to motivate people to join and stay in Defense, we need to provide an answer to the demand for customized clothing. It cannot be the intention to ask staff to buy clothes from the local ceremony shop, or worse yet, at the local carnival shop, to tackle uniform shortages. This is a structural part of the working conditions that we need to create in the Defense Department. You should certainly take this into account in the context of your POP plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u7	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Lacroix's 55021277C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u8	Mr Francken is on his way, but he is not yet here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u9	Madam Minister, the Taiwanese Minister for Defence recently indicated that the military tensions between his country and China, which have been on the increase for some time, have reached the most acute point in over 40 years. He made that statement while submitting his new military expenditure package to the Taiwanese legislator, worth $8 billion, for warships and missiles, among others. Taiwan is clearly preparing for a possible military confrontation with Beijing. The Taiwanese Minister of Defence made his statements about China a few days after a record number of Chinese fighter aircraft had flown through Taiwanese airspace. There were no less than 150 Chinese military planes in four days. These planes entered Taiwan's air defense zone, but didn't fire any shots as far as we know. It is more and more clear that China considers Taiwan to be yet another Chinese province. Beijing also stated that the country should be taken by force if necessary. They are therefore right to be concerned, particularly in the Strait of Taiwan. In this geostrategically important strait, both China and the United States are letting their muscles roll. What's your reaction to this news? How do you see the tensions between China on the one hand and Taiwan and the United States on the other? In the event of a military meeting between the United States and China on Taiwan, the European NATO allies are in danger of being dragged along. What attitude would you adopt in this hypothetical but realistic future scenario? Have you had any discussions on this with a number of colleagues? The next question might be for your colleague from the Foreign Office. What about the possible evacuation of Belgians in Taiwan, should the country be attacked militaryly by China?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u10	Mrs Ponthier, the current Chinese military construction is clashing with the interests of other world players, including the United States. All stakeholders in the region are still seeking a diplomatic solution. In the context of crisis management, NATO could opt for a diplomatic solution, but it could also provide diplomatic support to the US ally in the framework of NATO solidarity. The NATO alliance remains a defence organisation of the Euro-Atlantic space. A commitment in the Indo-Pacific region under Article 5 of the NATO Charter is therefore very unlikely. Since the opening of diplomatic relations with Beijing in 1971, Belgium has not had any official relations with the Taiwanese authorities, entirely in line with the policy set out by the Foreign Affairs Office, since then known as the One China Policy. The Belgian approach to these efforts is through the traditional multilateral channels of NATO and the EU, which also follow this policy. It follows that requests for cooperation or information on Taiwan's part are not dealt with with with our defence. The decision to evacuate Belgian nationals is outside the competence of Defence. I therefore refer you to the Foreign Office. In any case, the Defense Department is ready to implement the decisions of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u11	Madam Minister, I will, of course, also address the issue to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. For the rest, it is very important to keep the finger on the wrist. There is a military escalation, which is closely followed by the US, not an insignificant ally of us as a NATO Member State. In this context, the US has already taken a number of initiatives. We must remain very vigilant. I have also seen the analysis of Jonathan Holslag, who is not the least qualified in that area, and he says it is a sign that a military meeting around Taiwan is near. I therefore recommend once again that you keep your finger on the pulse through your contacts in NATO and remain vigilant.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u12	Minister, on July 16, the Council of Ministers adopted Minister Lalieux's Federal Disability Action Plan 2021 - 2024. This plan, organized around six axes, proposes 145 concrete measures for persons with disabilities. Several of these measures concern Defence in terms of human resources or infrastructure management, for example. Madam Minister, could you please tell me what follow-up you intend to follow up on the various Defence measures included in this plan and the timetable for follow-up within your department? The question seems important to me in order to achieve an increasingly inclusive society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u13	Colleague, the measures proposed by Defence and included in the Federal Disability Action Plan are being analysed by the Human Resources Branch of the Staff to translate them into a concrete action plan. As part of the measures to promote the reintegration of disabled military personnel into the labour market and to assign military personnel who have been declared permanently unfit for military service in civilian and defence personnel, the regulation will be completed before the end of the year. In 2022, an analysis will be made to allow for the possible transfer of military personnel who are unfit for service as military personnel to other departments. With regard to the accessibility of future headquarters and the development of existing ones, Defence infrastructure services are fully part of the Federal Disability Action Plan 2021 - 2024. Indeed, in addition to respecting the various European, federal and regional legislation on accessibility of public buildings and buildings in particular, it is an inclusive policy of universal accessibility of its equipment and infrastructure that Defence intends to promote. It is a concept of accessibility based on human diversity, functional adaptation and ergonomics of infrastructure use with the aim of promoting the professional and social inclusion of all users in their environment. For Defence, the objective is clearly to design infrastructure with all the appropriate user facilities (multifunctional and multi-user), taking into account the specific aspects of our army and its budgetary framework. The development of sport initiatives for military personnel and veterans with disabilities is the subject of a staff study. In 2022, several military personnel with disabilities will participate in the Invictus Games, a multi-sport competition for wounded and disabled soldiers and war veterans. Article 11 of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities provides that, in situations of risk and humanitarian emergency, States parties shall take all necessary measures to ensure the protection and safety of persons with disabilities in situations of risk, including armed conflict, humanitarian crises and natural disasters. This provision is in line with the following fundamental principles of the law of armed conflict: humanity, distinction, proportionality and precaution. The law of armed conflict is fully applicable to operations in which Belgian military personnel participate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u14	Minister, thank you for your clear and detailed answers and for this specific agenda. I can only rejoice in everything I have just heard. As you know, it's been a long time since we've been calling for better tracking of our members who have been declared unfit, as well as access to Defence sites, including historic sites. I see that you have clearly taken up the problem with arms and you want the army to be even more inclusive than it is already. I can only congratulate you on that. We will obviously be with you to ensure and evaluate the follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u15	Mr President, Madam Minister, a few weeks ago Belgium took part in a rescue operation in the sea of migrants, at the call of the French authorities. I would remind you that rescue at sea is a task entrusted, under the law, to Belgian Defence. This mission was once carried out with Sea Kings. Today, it is the NH90s that are very described when they are purchased that are used. There was a corrosion problem, as was the case for the Sea Kings because they are based near the North Sea. Anyway, I see that the Sea Kings, like the NH90s, are very useful. Minister, could you please let me know how many interventions took place during this season for rescue at sea, but also as part of the support provided for rescues of migrants? If you are unable to provide me with the figures today, you can do so later. Could you also remind me of the reservations expressed by some about the purchase of this European equipment, which was intended to meet the demands made either by NATO or by Europe in order to have sufficient transport capabilities? Could you reassure me by confirming the government's willingness to keep these aircraft in service whether they are based today in Coxide and, tomorrow, in Ostend, or in Beauvechain?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u16	Mr President, Mr Flahaut when a rescue operation at sea is considered too large or in the event of simultaneous interventions, the different regional centres may call on the services of the regions or neighbouring countries. Once in the air, the actions of the helicopters are coordinated by the regional centre in charge of the area of operation concerned. On Sunday, 10 October, at 9:44 a.m., the Regional Operational Monitoring and Rescue Centre (CROSS) in Gris-Nez, which is responsible for interventions in French waters, called on the Belgian regional centre to participate in the search for a small boat with 38 people on board reported about 17 km off the French coast between Calais and Dunkirk. Thus, 20 minutes later, an NH90 took off from the base of Coxide. Arriving on site at 1014 hours, the helicopter spotted two people in distress in the water and retrieved them on board. In a state of severe hypothermia, the two shipwrecked were taken to the hospital of Calais at about 10:37 a.m. The crew then returned to the open sea to continue the search. Our helicopter then headed for another position, at the request of the CROSS via our MRCC, following reports of three or four other people in the water not far from a patrol of the French naval action force. At approximately 1212, the rescue crew recovered five shipwrecked and dropped them on board the French vessel. At 1234 hours, after two hours and thirty-one minutes of flight, the helicopter landed at the base of Coxide, completing its mission. A total of seven people in distress were rescued by the Belgian Search and Rescue (SAR). Your question was not about the details of the SAR's missions – we will come back to it. However, I thank you for allowing me to highlight the importance of his work, the efficiency of his staff and the terrible situations he faces.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u17	Madam Minister, thank you for that clarification. These operations, along with airspace monitoring, are examples of European cooperation, such as the implementation of the B-FAST. It is in our interest to highlight and explain, more than just a different fact or a simple intervention, all of these operations carried out by Defence to assist the civilian population, both on land and at sea. In addition, we may not be talking enough about demining missions, but this will be the subject of another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u18	Madam Minister, next Saturday, not only will I be on the train to Glasgow to try to find solutions to the global temperature increase at the climate summit with many politicians and representatives of all kinds of organisations. Based on the reductions already agreed, we are still on a destructive path of 2.7 °C warming towards the end of this century. You're in charge of Defense, a department that's a solid extinguisher of CO2. That is why it has already been stated in NATO that we absolutely need to reduce the emissions of our military apparatus. Of course, it is to be welcomed that the issue has been raised there, but no specific objectives have been agreed. I think that's a little irresponsible. What is the situation in Belgium? Are there any figures on this? What do you see as the most important challenge and what opportunities do you see in the Belgian Defence Department?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u19	Defence respects the legal provisions imposed by the government. For example, the Department of Infrastructure Management respects legislation on the energy performance of buildings and energy efficiency. Defence contributes to the actions in the National Adaptation Plan and the National Energy and Climate Plan. Defence has thus identified different domains that receive special attention, such as energy, mobility, and infrastructure. By 2040, Defence has set out to aim for a CO2-neutral and sustainable real estate portfolio through an innovative financing method for the development and renovation of the Defence infrastructure. Defence has also set itself the objective of greening its non-operational passenger transport fleet by 2030. The purchase of equipment systematically looks at sustainability and ways to reduce the negative impact on climate and environment in line with federal purchasing policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u20	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. In itself, it is a good thing to keep defence objectives in mind, but it would be better for a subject that is now becoming too important if they are actually translated into annual, measurable, concrete actions so that we can follow them up. It is good to set a target, but I have heard too many target dates on the subject that are far ahead. Then it is very difficult to determine which investment is needed at what time. There's a lot of patrimony at the Department of Defense. In this respect, I believe there are many energy efficiency gains to be made. Madam Minister, I have the impression that we are at the beginning of a very important task and that we must work together with the people of Defence to see how we can make it really concrete, tangible and move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u21	Mr Verduyckt, I wish you an inspiring train journey.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u22	The incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u23	Mr President, Madam Minister, first of all I would like to apologize because I was unable to join the Operations Monitoring Committee in time. Therefore, some answers may have been provided to this question. I would just like to get an explanation of the content and lessons to be learned from the mission in Niger, but I would also like to have an idea of the continuation of our presence in this part of the world. In this respect, I believe that Mr Franken's question will be complementary to mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u24	I can neither confirm nor deny that this issue was discussed in the Committee on the Succession of Foreign Shipments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u25	Mr President, I wasn't there. I can't be accused of anything this time. Madam Secretary, with the completion of the mission of the Mobile Education and Training Team, the deployment of Defense in Operation New Nero will come to an end for the time being. In March, however, a team of Defense went to Niamey to discuss with Niger staff the modalities of a follow-up mission and as early as September, you and the CHOD travelled to the region. I've seen some interesting pictures of that. Hence my questions to you, Madam Secretary. How do you evaluate the METT assignment that has been running since 2019? Is the DOD satisfied with the results achieved and the level of education achieved under Niger's troops? What are the options the Defence Staff worked out for a continuation of our contribution to New Nero in 2022? Do they see another task there for the development of our special forces? Do you see a margin for additional deployment with the necessary number strength as an option for 2022? I ask you this question, Madam Minister, because the battalion 12/13 is training Linie for a CATSG mission to develop in the Sahel, supported by the Ardennes Hunters. What agreements were made with Niamey about a Belgian contribution? By when did they promise to give an answer on the continuation of the mission? Development cooperation and Foreign Affairs also travelled to Niger in March to discuss framework projects of our military mission within the framework of the Comprehensive Approach. Will the development of these projects be compromised if the Defense Department does not continue its mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u26	Colleagues, my visit to Niger allowed me to speak with my Nigerian counterpart and to talk with the Defence Representative working in Niamey at the level of special forces and intelligence. The talks focused on the security situation in the Sahelian area as well as on the activities carried out by Belgian Defence in Niger. The bilan of this visit is positive. In addition to our good contacts with the Nigeri partner, I remember in particular the smooth running of our current bilateral military cooperation. This cooperation, launched on the basis of a clear campaign plan, is aimed at increasing the resilience of Niger's security forces in their fight against terrorism. The continuation of this plan is currently being studied by the Defence Staff. In the course of the following weeks more details will be given in the follow-up committee for foreign missions. I can tell you that the activities will shift from Niamey to Torodi at the request of the Niger defence staff. The aim of this project would be to create a security and development hub in close cooperation with Belgian development cooperation. To do this, the strategy followed by the Belgian staff is based on the principle of strategy localization, which, drawing on existing local potential, and building on a good understanding of local social, economic and security problems, offers contextualised solutions. In addition, this strategy promotes the interdepartmental approach required by the complexity of the situation in the Sahel. In the long term, the aim would be to provide the local population with a stable and secure environment in order to create the conditions for strengthening social cohesion and providing the population with better access to basic public services. As regards the concrete deployment options and the corresponding modalities for 2022, I would like to refer you to the overall plan for Belgian operational deployment abroad in 2022, which will be presented to Parliament in the course of next month.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to underline the very original and intelligent nature of the approach that is being taken in a military partnership. Indeed, development cooperation is mainly involved and we want to involve local actors and the civilian population at all costs in order to make them benefit from our presence. This is an intelligent approach because it is quite the opposite of the approach taken by the United States in Afghanistan. It also differs from the French approach in other Sahel countries, which is likely to lead to a rejection of European troops present in these territories. So I can only do one thing: encourage the continuation of the operation with the same philosophy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u28	Mr Flahaut, the comparison between Niger and Afghanistan does not exist at all. That's a completely different situation. I do not see what the American invasion of Afghanistan has to do with the situation in Niger.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u29	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u30	I know your anti-American emotions, but I don't share them. We'll see who we're gonna need when we come to terms with it, as always. Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. We will certainly continue the conversation behind closed doors in the committee Follow-up of foreign missions. However, the operational commitment is something that the public has the right to know exactly what will happen and where. That is the operational plan that will come to Parliament on 22 November. I'm looking forward to that. I am very curious and many soldiers wonder what we will do next year and where. The sooner it can be done, the better. You say that your meeting with the Nigerese authorities has been positive. You know that I am very critical of Mali, but I have long been more positive about Niger. That really is a different context, another country with a central government that works and that works for its people. I don't feel that way in Mali. You've been there, so you'll know better. You've also seen the coup legend twice. That's hard, and I know you've had a hard time meeting him, too, but that's part of the job. You say we'll focus more on Torodi in Niger. I thought we were in Maradi, but apparently it's going to be Torodi. I do not know that city, but in itself an assignment in Niger is something that our party is more positive about. I think the results are good on the ground there. Perhaps someday we can visit with the people of Defence, Mr President. We'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u31	We are still looking at it with the Minister, but it may be that the operational plan will be on the agenda a week earlier, on 17 November. To be continued, I'm sure. The operational plan deserves a public debate, so it will be a public meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u32	Madam Minister, recently the CHOD stated that it had evidence that Russia would be behind the spread of conspiracy theories in the Conings case. It would be an army of Russian Internet trolls, who, during and after the Conings case, raised doubts about the circumstances of his disappearance and his death. All this would be a conscious strategy to radicalize a group and disrupt our western society. In response, the CHOD stated that it wished to develop a fully-fledged cyber component as soon as possible, preferably even before the 2030 target from the strategic vision. That service would consist of three hundred highly qualified citizens and soldiers and carry out both offensive and defensive tasks. I have a lot of questions as usual, but I will not bore you by reading them again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u33	The fight against fake news and the spread of false information is a priority for the government. The recent adoption of the Cybersecurity Strategy Belgium 2.0 proves this priority and is therefore an important step in the global approach to the cyber threat. The name Conings was noted during the continuous monitoring of different categories of foreign actors. Such actors primarily use their own media channels or organisations managed by them. Secondly, they use less striking means such as bots and trolls, which they use purposefully across different social media platforms. The use and manipulation of alternative media, influencers and often experts and journalists can also be an important part of the tactics to divide and distrust Western communities. Creating an anti-establishment feeling is part of this. Many people respond to existing sensitivities in society. The project to strengthen cyber capacity within Defence was already announced in my policy statement of 4 November. The attempts at cyber interference by foreign actors confirm the need to equip ourselves with efficient cyber defence structures. The two-stage project provides firstly for the strengthening of existing capacities within the ADIV and secondly, over a five-year period, for the development of a cyber component within Defence. To this end, a multidisciplinary project team has recently been set up at the Department of Defense, which will work specifically on the realisation of the cyber component. In line with my policy statement, the creation of a new cyber component will take place after the strengthening of the ADIV's cyber capabilities, so that the creation of the component will not have a negative impact on the resources and personnel assigned to the ADIV. At this stage, it is still too early to record the number and type of staff needed for the future cyber component. Defence studies the various channels through which the staff will be recruited. Defence is determined to exploit all available recruitment opportunities, both for civilian and military personnel, for active personnel and reservists, and is considering creating new ways, through strategic partnerships with other entities in the Belgian cybersecurity ecosystem. Defence is fully aware of the competition in that labour market and wants to distinguish itself as an employer primarily by an offer of functions, training and assignments that only the cyber component of Defence and the ADIV can offer in Belgium. The tasks of the ADIV and the future cyber component will consist of detecting and identifying threats, protecting its own military systems, collecting and analysing relevant intelligence and, finally, making it possible, in full compliance with the applicable legal rules, to disrupt or undermine the systems of the opponents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u34	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. The fact that wars of any kind aren't always conducted clean is, I think, kicking in an open door. The same applies to the wars that are waged online. The fact that foreign powers are trying to influence our society is also an open door. I don't doubt that. But when the CHOD makes statements about foreign interference, I think there should be some more concrete evidence on the table. Your answer excels in vagueness. It is very extensive, but you did not go into the specific directions we would have. For all kinds of reasons, we should not declare Russia sacred or blessed, but I would like to ask why we are pointing the finger directly when it comes to Russia. We've had a ddos attack recently that has wiped out almost all of our government agencies. The experts all agreed that it came from a Chinese angle. I have to say that our policy-makers will not get any accusations. Some excitement about the origin of this attack wouldn't have been bad either. As far as the cyber component is concerned, you don't give much information. You say you're working on it. You are studying and working on the implementation of the staff framework. I cannot tell much more from your answer, but, as I have already said, I wish you once again the best of luck in attracting expertise and specialised staff. I only doubt whether we will succeed in this within the framework of the budgets and the opportunities that you have.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u35	Trust me, I won't disappoint you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u36	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u37	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55022129C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u38	Mr President, Minister, during July there was a lot of red dust in the gardens in Machelen. I asked a question about this, both to the Minister for Mobility and to the Minister for Health. An answer was long overdue, but last week I received the answer. It was supposed to be a DOD plane that flew across that area several times. However, I do not yet have an answer to the question as to whether or not this red substance is harmful. I only received the answer to my question last week and I am very pleased that you have answered my question this week, Madam Minister. So you certainly didn't count.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u39	Mr President, Mrs Bury, until now neither my cabinet nor the defence staff have been formally informed about this matter. So no contact was made with other governments. With regard to the origin of the red rainfall and the risks to public health that it entails or does not involve, I refer to the findings of the research conducted by the Provincial Institute for Hygiene on behalf of the Municipality of Machelen. To date, there has been no concrete indication of a link between the red rainfall and the activities of the military transport aircraft. The suggestions in the press about a link to the use of biofuels by the Defense Department are impossible, as Defence does not yet use biofuels as aviation fuel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u40	Madam Secretary, you say there is no connection. That is a strange answer, since, according to your colleague, research shows that the red dust comes from a military aircraft, which is mentioned by name in the answer. There is also agreement with the month in which the red dust was found, because after that the plane stopped flying over that area. You are now saying that you know nothing and that you were not contacted. So my question is not really being answered. I would like to receive the study of the Provincial Institute for Hygiene, so I can read it myself. In this way, however, I cannot give an answer to the locals either. It is therefore normal to suggest things that may not be right at all, such as biofuel that is not even used by you. If, however, there is no answer to the question as to why the red dust ends up in the gardens, what that red substance is, and whether it is harmful, concerns will be created among the citizens. I would therefore like to ask you if you could give me the study. I will then look into what questions I will ask which minister will be asked about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u41	You can't say everything and anything! There's no evidence of any connection to the Defence. A study is under way because we're not going to invent things. The results of this study are expected. People say certain things without any evidence
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u42	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u43	I know. But he has no evidence to say such things.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u44	(...) to questions. He said I had to talk to you because it had nothing to do with him.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u45	I repeat: a study is under way. If that happens, it has nothing to do with the Defence. We'll see, but today, I can't tell you anything other than waiting for the results of the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u46	Mr President, Madam Minister, I wanted to question you today because it is my responsibility that some of the relatives of the victims of the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 are still not considered entitled persons within the meaning of Article 2 of the Act of 18 July 2017 on the creation of the status of national solidarity. More specifically, for almost a year, the mother of one of the victims would still be waiting for a pension to be awarded, with retroactive effect to 22 March 2016, the date of entry into force of the law. Other victims may also be entitled to receive this pension. As a reminder, the second paragraph of Article 5 of the said Law provides that the death of direct victims shall be entitled to the pensions and allowances determined by Articles 12, § 1, and 13, § 1, paragraph 1, but also by others of the General Law. The King determines how pensions and allowances are distributed among the beneficiaries, if there are more than one. In order to justify the absence of a pension payment, the Federal Pension Service indicated that only the spouse (or common-law or common-law partner) and/or dependent children of the deceased victim are considered to be entitled. According to him, the term cohabitant should be understood as the unmarried partner with whom the person forms a household, excluding persons bound by a bond (filing, adoption, guardianship and any other form of kinship). Consequently, a parent could not be regarded as a legal or de facto cohabitant, which is totally contrary to the legal provisions on cohabitation and to the preparatory work of the law establishing the status of national solidarity. Minister, do you confirm that the mother whose son died on March 22, 2016 is considered a beneficiary? If not, how does the government justify this discrimination between the various beneficiaries of the victims of these attacks? How will this pension be distributed between the victim's mother and siblings? Do you know any other persons currently excluded from qualifying? In order to avoid this legal uncertainty, do you feel that it is necessary to legislate on the concept of entitlement in order to include more explicitly all the children and parents of the victims of the attacks (co-inhabitants or not) as well as all the persons linked by a link (filiation, adoption, guardianship) with whom the deceased lived? Can you confirm to me that a royal decree will be taken in order to define the distribution keys of the pension entitled in the event that the deceased victim leaves behind several de facto cohabitants?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u47	Mr President, Madam Minister, I am speaking in the same context as my colleague Sophie Rohonyi. You have been contacted directly by the ASBL Life4Brussels, which represents the victims of the attacks in Brussels. This ASBL mobilizes for the mother of a victim who died during the attacks of 22 March 2016, who resided with her son. You and the Federal Pension Service have been arrested several times. The ASBL Life4Brussels provided you with the detailed analysis of the law. It referred to parliamentary work. In these, the decision is clear. I myself had tabled this amendment, which several other colleagues from all parties had supported and co-signed. The latter removed the notion of a married or cohabiting couple in order to allow for the consideration of the different persons living together, regardless of the family relationship. Not only the couple, but also parents, children and siblings were taken into account. There was no response to the ASBL, which again called you in. Reminders were again held in August and October. You still haven't provided an answer. It is particularly disturbing not to have responded to the victims and the ASBL. Furthermore, it is unacceptable that the law should not be fully implemented and that this would lead to the unjust exclusion of relatives of victims. This mother is directly concerned. Other relatives of deceased victims may also be affected. If I question you, it's to force you to respond now to this mom, other victims maybe and the ASBL Life4Brussels. Minister, how do you justify this restrictive interpretation of the 2017 Act, which ultimately excludes some relatives of victims?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the difficulties faced by the direct and indirect victims of the attacks of 2016, as well as their legal successors, are humanly unacceptable. I assure you that I will work with my government colleagues to find solutions to all the problems faced by these victims as soon as possible. Under certain conditions, de facto cohabitants of a victim of a terrorist act may be recognized as entitled beneficiaries and, as such, receive a compensation pension. When the Act of 18 July 2017 on the creation of the status of national solidarity, the granting of a compensation pension and the reimbursement of medical care following acts of terrorism was adopted, the legislator's intention was clearly to give the concept of de facto cohabitant the widest possible meaning. The definition of common-law cohabitant in this Act allows for the inclusion of a person who is related to the victim and with whom the victim lived prior to his or her death. This concept thus covers several situations and can take various forms: cohabitation with the partner, parents, siblings, uncles and aunts of the victim, for example. De facto cohabitation can therefore be considered with several persons, unlike legal cohabitation, which is only possible between two persons. The Royal Decree of 27 April 2018, which lays down the allocation of the compensation pension granted to the entitled parties, pursuant to the Act of 18 July 2017, does not contain a provision to determine how to allocate the pensions in this case. This places victims and their beneficiaries in a very difficult situation. It is therefore necessary to adapt this royal decree so that it really reflects the possibilities of recognition, as provided for in the law of 2017. This should be done in consultation with the other departments concerned and be careful not to create discriminatory situations. A consultation between the relevant services is already under way and a mapping of all the problems that victims may encounter will be carried out shortly. As such and in response to their letter, the ASBL Life4Brussels was recently invited to meet with members of my cabinet to better identify the problems faced by victims and their dependants. Finally, I am not aware of other situations in which a de facto cohabitant who meets the conditions laid down by law would not have been recognized as entitled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u49	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply and for the reply you sent by mail to the ASBL Life4Brussels. It was extremely important for these victims to feel listened to because this has not always been the case - it must be said - and because, as you rightly say, the situation they are experiencing today is unacceptable. It is unacceptable that, more than five years after the Brussels attacks, certain victims and their relatives are not recognized as such by the State, since the status of entitlement holder would now be reserved for the partner but not for children or parents. I would therefore like to thank you for reminding you of the provisions of the law and that, in this case, the interpretation that was made by the SPF Public Health is not in conformity with the law, especially since, as Mrs Fonck pointed out, at the time, the bill had had to be amended, in particular because the ASBL Life4Brussels had requested it, in order to prevent discrimination between de facto cohabitants on the one hand and legal cohabitants on the other. We have, therefore, taken care to avoid this discrimination, which has now been reintroduced, no doubt because of an error, by the Federal Pension Service. The law was not respected. It will be necessary to ensure that victims who are penalized by this error can be restored to their rights. I understand that the Royal Decree may be adapted to ensure that a distribution key is defined if the victim leaves behind several de facto cohabitants. I would have liked to hear from you about the timetable for doing so. For the rest, Madam Minister, thank you. If we are several Members who have asked you about this, it is not for a question of money, because unfortunately money will never replace the loss of a loved one, but because it is important for the victims and relatives of the victims to be recognized as entitled. It is this quality that helps them to rebuild today. It is important that victims and their loved ones feel recognized and that the State continues to support them properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u50	Madam Minister, first of all I take it that we agree on the principle. There have already been far too many procrastinations and there can be no more. This is indeed a situation of cohabitation in the widest possible sense. We leave the couple and therefore this mother must be recognised and must be able to benefit from the pension. Secondly, we are obviously entitled to be questioned by the reason for this situation. The law is clear. We had amended it precisely to take account of these situations. I must point out this royal decree of April 2018. Why has the government not respected the law? Why did he take a royal decree that, in a way, allows him to circumvent the law? This is unacceptable. Finally, for tomorrow, given the delay - indeed look at the situation of this mother - I ask you to speed up the pace, to set a precise timetable and to resolve this issue as quickly as possible. It has been a long time since it was, in a way, unjustly set aside. It's a matter of respect for the victims. You say there are no other known situations. Perhaps this is the case, but let us not be too confused with certainties; there may simply be other relatives of victims who did not think they were concerned and who could, on the basis of the Royal Decree, be entitled to this pension. What prevails is, of course, the law. I hope, Madam Minister, that by the end of 2021 the situation will be resolved and the corrections made retroactively. I really do allow myself to make this request to you. This is important for the ASBL and for all victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u51	Madam Secretary, the Chairman of the Committee I has the habit, or indeed the need, of visiting the press. You have undoubtedly also read it in the magazine Wilfried Magazine, which is not so well known in Flanders. However, we have also read the article with due attention. "Si Jürgen Conings s'était appelé Mustapha" is the title of the article, in which he makes all kinds of statements about Jan and alleman. He is, among other things, giving Parliament a panic, which is remarkable for the President of an institution which falls within Parliament's remit. This afternoon, however, there is a sitting with closed doors which, if I am not mistaken, goes on at the suggestion of your own group, to hear what is going on. I look forward with interest to the Committee I's advisory committee. Worse still, however, is that he makes all kinds of statements in which he mainly discredits Defence. Apparently, Defense is aware of the extreme right and in the investigation of Jürgen Conings all kinds of oppositions have taken place within Defense. When reading the article, we drew big eyes. I also have to confess that I have not read the record so far, and I speak in two words, Mr President, in any report. The statements made by the President of the Committee I, who was not the first to appear in the press, therefore deserve special attention. Yesterday we read an initial response from the CHOD. At last, therefore, there was a reaction from the Defence Department, because if I am not mistaken, Madam Secretary, I have not yet heard any response from you. The CHOD is quite right to stand up for the military who have done everything in the framework of the investigation to get the man. There have been no adverse reactions. He added that he considered the statements made by the Chairman of the Committee I to be unheard of. Those are the words that the Chief of Staff sent yesterday on Twitter but also in a letter to the military. Madam Secretary, that is why I have the following questions. The Chairman of the Committee I is therefore not particularly tender to your department. He even publicly suspects certain people of unauthorized practices. What is your response to Mr Lipszyc's statements? Do the Defence Department, and in particular the ADIV, wish to comment on the statements made by the Chairman in Wilfried Magazine? Will they commit action to Mr Lipszyc's statements, as he has asked to explain himself or put the evidence on the table? Madam Minister, although it is Parliament's competence and we are meeting this afternoon on the issue, the next question is interesting for us to include in our debate. Madam Secretary, do you think that Mr Lipszyc's statements were out of line? Do you expect this to affect the working relationship between you and Mr Lipszyc and the ADIV in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u52	Colleagues, as you know, following the Conings case, I have taken the decision, on the basis of the various shortcomings highlighted by the reports of the General Inspectorate and the R Committee, to proceed with a transformation of the SGRS. This work has begun, but it is clear that the scope of the task is enormous. In fact, some shortcomings have been known to you for several years. I work with Admiral Robberecht to transform the SGRS into an effective organization. He has my confidence and with CHOD, we have put in place a new method of work. This assures us that information is circulating properly and that we are making informed decisions. The SGRS works in accordance with the law and its jurisdiction. Of course, the SGRS will continue to work on the phenomenon of defence extremism with security partners. Investigations will therefore be conducted on the basis of the information available to the SGRS. At other levels of the organization, I am also working on the implementation of the action plan to clarify, among other things, the regulatory and disciplinary framework. My goal is that there is no more room for extremism in the Defence. Mr Lipszyc's comments only concern him with the structures mentioned, but the answer is his. I can only repeat that the SGRS will take responsibility for monitoring the phenomena it is supposed to follow, in consultation with the administrative or judicial authorities. On the bottom of the problem of the far right, I refer to the answers already provided last week and which remain valid. The ADIV will of course not hesitate to inform both its security partners and the political leaders of pertinent results resulting from its investigations. As far as the Conings case is concerned, however, I must point out that there is an ongoing judicial investigation. It is not up to the ADIV to comment on the state of play in this sensitive dossier anyway. The SGRS responded to the comments in the article through an internal communication reiterating the confidence of the Chief of the SGRS in his staff and recalling that the competencies of the service are in fact, not in the words found in the press. The military personnel involved in the Boutens case were either dismissed from their employment on disciplinary grounds (three persons concerned), or left the Defence for other reasons (four persons concerned), or were temporarily withdrawn from their employment on disciplinary grounds (three persons concerned). Other persons cited in the Boutens case were either not prosecuted or acquitted by the courts. Since July, I am fully committed to implementing this action plan, which we have presented here to Parliament. The construction site is huge. I will continue to use all my energy with the team to combat extremism as we have discovered in recent months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u53	Madam Minister, my party supports your announced reform plans at the ADIV and we also agree with you that there is no room for far-right defence. You say that you should not react to too much public because there is a judicial investigation, but you also point to factual inaccuracies in the article or at least in the interview, for example when it comes to those soldiers and Thomas Boutens. Lipszyc zegt: "Some military are still in operation." You're actually denying that here. So you're actually pretty good at your response to statements he's just making. He puts everything and everyone in a bad light. I do not think we should accept that. I propose that we discuss this in the first instance in the advisory committee of the Committee I. However, I had also hoped for some public response from you, Madam Secretary. With such statements, to put everyone in a bad light and which seem to be based on nothing, Mr Lipszyc firmly went beyond his bounds. We will certainly come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u54	Mr President, I would like to apologize for my delay, but I thought our work was beginning at 10 a.m. I will therefore go through the Minister's answer to all the questions that are addressed to her. In any event, I fear that this matter will still be before us in the coming weeks. I hope, in any case, that we will not have to return too quickly to the minister following further statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u55	Mr. Defossé, I can confirm that the minister has answered your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u56	I had no doubt, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u57	Madam Minister, I traditionally put an oral parliamentary question for a debriefing after a NATO or EU meeting. I would like to be briefed by you on the precise decisions taken there and their impact on Belgium in relation to the NATO Innovation Fund. Are there also specific reports on Afghanistan and Russia?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u58	Madam Secretary, you had a busy agenda last week with your participation in the NATO meeting. I have been able to follow that up on social media, both on our diplomatic post at NATO and on yours. What struck me was the call by Jens Stoltenberg, before the beginning of the NATO Council of Ministers, to preserve the unity in the Afghanistan file. A week before, many others and I myself asked Mr Stoltenberg in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Lisbon a question about Afghanistan; he was even under attack and had a hard time. I have rarely experienced this in the many years of my membership. That was the case, for example, when the Turks invaded northern Syria. Then the barn was too small and the French were furious. Even then there was intense ambiance, just like now. Mr Buysrogge can testify to that. Mr Stoltenberg's call for unity to be maintained in the Afghanistan dossier is therefore certainly understandable in view of the animated debate that took place the week before. Parliamentarians can afford to be less diplomatic than ministers. Was there any talk of Afghanistan? If so, what was the content of the discussion? Was the unit kept in that file? The withdrawal went very badly. As far as the Innovation Fund is concerned, 1 billion is very modest to stimulate innovation across all Member States. How do you assess the size of the fund? Do you think it's bulky enough? Do you want another extension? The major absentees in the creation of the fund are France and the US, the two with the largest budgets for research and development and a credible own industry. Can you indicate their absence? What are the potential consequences of this? What is the relationship between the Fund and the European Defence Fund and PESCO? What interactions are possible? As far as Belgium is concerned, concrete proposals for testing centres for advanced materials in the areas of cybersecurity, artificial intelligence, quantum technology, biotechnology and fluid mechanics have been submitted through the Regions. Can you explain how much money we are looking for for how many projects? How does this relate to our possible contribution to the fund? I have the same questions about DIANA. What projects does our country have or wish to submit?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u59	The meeting of NATO defence ministers dealt with key issues, including the planned adjustments in the area of deterrence and defence, the situation in Afghanistan where ministers gave indications and orientations for further activities, and the cooperation between NATO and the EU. On 22 October, 17 Member States, including Belgium, signed an agreement to create a joint fund of 1 billion for security and defence innovation. The signing in the framework of the meeting was a clear signal and an invitation to other allies to participate in the initiative. The aim of the multinational fund is to maintain the alliance's technological leadership by investing extra in dual-use technology, with opportunities for defence and security applications. In addition, it should lead to closer cooperation in the development of innovative solutions. Together with the second initiative, the Defence Innovation Accelerator for the North Atlantic (DIANA), the fund will support the development of a transatlantic innovative community. The details of the implementation will be worked out in NATO in the coming months. DIANA and the NATO Innovation Fund should be seen as complementary to other research, development and innovation initiatives, including the European Defence Fund and the Permanent Structured Cooperation, as well as the activities of the European Defence Agency and the NATO Science and Technology Organisation. Interactions and value relationships should be further developed. The possible participation of Belgium in both a priori non-linked initiatives was discussed between the competent federal authorities, the Regions and the Communities. For DIANA, the Belgian bid consists of a technical incubator, three test centres and possibly a European headquarters. The Belgian participation in the initiatives is important to stimulate our national innovation. The declaration of intent allows us to involve our country in the development of the fund. Afterwards, Belgium can decide whether and to what extent it wishes to participate. Only then will the modalities be known to identify and finance projects. The evacuation of Allied citizens and Afghan citizens associated with NATO was achieved thanks to several bilateral evacuation operations that took place during August. Most of the evacuated Afghan citizens have been given shelter by one of the allies. Part of it still needs to be allocated to a country of destination. Belgium captures a dozen Afghans who have worked for NATO. However, there are still Afghan citizens who have worked for NATO and who have not yet been able to leave the country. NATO is working on a plan to facilitate a second evacuation. In response to Russia's lack of transparency and non-compliance with international agreements in the implementation of Zapad exercise in September, NATO has decided to halve Russia's diplomatic representation to NATO as a clear signal. In response, Russia has decided to withdraw its full representation and has also demanded the departure of NATO's representation in Moscow. Any contacts between Russia and NATO will be assured by the Russian Embassy in our country from the beginning of November. If NATO deems it necessary, the embassy of one of the allies in Moscow may represent NATO.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u60	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. It would be interesting, Mr President, that we should not have a questioning session, but that there should be some sort of standard debriefing after such a meeting. It was a very interesting answer, but I would like to add a critical note. I refer, for example, to the press conferences of Defence in Grubindonk on the operations in Gabon. I notice from the social media that press conferences are being held there. I follow it, of course. There is sometimes very useful information given here earlier, but behind closed doors. We can do better than that, Mr President. We should at least be able to get the information and presentations given there digitally, and why, for example, not here in this committee at the moment. Madam Secretary, you made a justified remark. Besides the Innovation Fund, we also have EDA, EDF and PESCO, which have a long list of projects. We have to be careful with that. Europe has more headquarters than deployable battle groups. We must therefore avoid creating a whole range of organisations, institutions, groups and agencies working in the field of innovation for the industrial projects as well. I say this as a believer in a much stronger cooperation between European and Belgian Defence on the one hand and industry on the other. That's what we need to bet on. It is therefore very positive in this respect, but we must beware of proliferation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u61	Madam Minister, you have not said so much about Afghanistan, but it is being considered whether we can repatriate a number of Afghans who have worked for NATO in a second operation. I assume it's about civilian personnel. I'm worried about that, too. I understand that they are now stuck and that they cannot go on Qatar Airways' aircraft departing at Kabul airport. They have to go to Islamabad, but they don't get there. I don't know how that's gonna be fixed. I will perhaps ask a specific question about this in a few weeks' time, because that remains a problem. I read that a Dutch interpreter and fixer on the list to be rescued was shot dead in Afghanistan. That has caused a whole debate. You say we took a dozen Afghans from the NATO pole. I thought it was about 1,000 in total and 10 out of 1,000 of course isn't very much. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u62	Ten people. I heard in Lisbon that all evacuation operations by all these countries saved a thousand Afghan citizens, that they are now asking who is taking who and that we have taken a dozen. We have an asylum crisis and we have to be a little careful, but I don't want those people to end up in a no-man's country and go nowhere. I understand that the British and Americans would accept them, as they usually do, but I will put a separate question on that. As far as the sanctions against Russia are concerned, I understand that there are. The fact that Russia is pulling everyone away as a counter-reaction is up to you. The atmosphere is terrible. I think the time has passed to see Russia as a friendly nation or a partner, just like China. The new strategic concept will prove that. As far as the investment budget is concerned, that is good in itself. I see this as a counterweight to European initiatives, even though I know I cannot see it that way. Mr Buysrogge, this will also be the subject of our book. It is still a difficult point, even for the years to come. There's been constant opposition and we're all good friends and we're all gonna do it right. Tom Vanzindelaere, who apparently is also in NATO PA on behalf of the European Parliament, said that it is all in parallel, that it is all going to be fine, that there is no tension between NATO and the European Union and that everything is fantastic. I have a different view of that. So I do not notice that, and I think that, especially the NATO countries that are not EU partners, such as the United States, Great Britain and Turkey, but also Norway and Canada, are very nervous about these European defence development initiatives. I have said this a great many times here, and that is always contradicted. It's said I shouldn't worry, that all of that will be fine. I hope so. We'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u63	Madam Secretary, the day before yesterday, the 15-minute plan was communicated. It's a good thing that communication came through. For Koksijde the move to Ostend was announced. That wasn't a surprise. Many people who are active in Koksijde will move with them. However, there is little future for certain professional categories at Ostend airport. I'm talking about the military firefighters, the ATCs and the meteologists. Madam Secretary, how many people are currently employed in these three professions in Koksijde? How many persons will be entitled to a pension against the move in 2025? Knowing the age pyramid of Defense, that's relevant. When do social discussions with these specific occupational categories start about their professional future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u64	In Koksijde there are currently 29 soldiers in the airport fire department, eleven soldiers in ATC and four soldiers are meteorologists. Three airfield firefighters and two military ATC will be retired by 2025. A survey of the target population will be organised from mid 2023 onwards. It is the intention of that survey to identify the wishes of those concerned. Depending on their wishes and the needs of Defence, they will be given the opportunity to exercise their current position in another location or to occupy a new position in another domain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u65	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. In the middle of 2023, I think it's particularly late. Can it not be brought forward to 2022? In this way, people who have to undergo similar, yet adapted, training in order to belong to a professional category can start to do so earlier. These categories are now rightly concerned that, for example, they will have to move to Kleine Brogel, Melsbroek or Florennes. That's the other side of the country. Somewhere the loyalty of our military stops. I would like to ask for more clarity and certainty, so that we can also start training more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u66	I would like to reply because 2023 corresponds to a cycle of biannual mutations. However, we asked the commander to contact each of them. Before this communication took place at the press level, it was carried out with the trade union organisations. As you know, we work collaboratively on all files. So we will not wait until 2023 to take into account the requests of these people. We are already taking them into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u67	Obviously, you're working on it and there's a plan behind it. That's all that matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u68	Madam Secretary, I have already asked many questions about the reserves. I remain convinced that the reservists are particularly important. Firefighters, for example, belong to the typical professional categories who opt for reserve training. In practice there appear to be problems with the re-vocation and/or operations of reserveists working in the fire department, both for the professional and the volunteers. Those problems aren't new either. Fire zones, like hospitals, for example, which I have already asked a lot of questions about, are not so happy that they have to let their staff go while they still have to pay their wages in their absence. The payout of wages, in cases of call-up or operations, naturally falls on the relief zones or hospitals. In the Home Office there would be discussions in progress to change the administrative status of the fire department in order to limit or even refuse the re-calls of firefighters. This can, of course, lead to problematic situations for the reserve in the Defense Department. Madam Secretary, do you know that problem? Defense is the employer of our reserves. What have you done or are you going to do to defend the position of reserves in the fire department from the Defense Department? Are you aware of the plans currently circulating within the Home Office? Have you had any contacts and are these negotiations followed by a defence officer? Apart from these specific questions, what is the status of the announced general reserve reforms?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u69	I do indeed attach great importance to modernising the status of the reserve. This must be made more attractive and flexible in order to ensure that both the Defence and the Reserves and their employer can find a win-win situation. On 1 January this year, an amendment to the financial status of the reserve soldiers entered into force. The purpose of that amendment was to improve the mechanism for payment of benefits carried out by a reservist during a recall. Before 1 January, one month's wager, if not due in full, was divided into thirtyths. Since January 1st, an incomplete monthly wager has been divided into 20ths. In this way, the Defense will ensure a better remuneration of the performance delivered during recalls. Indeed, it is true that in many cases the reserve forces have to interrupt their professional activities outside of Defence in order to provide services within Defence without being compensated financially by their employer. Defence has no knowledge of a specific problem in the fire department with regard to the use of their personnel as a reserver in the Defense Department and the fact that fire zones have to pay the wages of defence personnel. The improved remuneration of performance by Defense allows an employer to stop the payout of their employees when performing performance at Defense. The decision whether or not to stop the payment of a wage is specific to each employer. Defense is not aware of the plans at the Home Office to change the fire department's status. However, my cabinet is prepared to look into the problem for the fire department's reserveists and to discuss it with the relevant actors. The exchange of know-how between security services and defence is indeed essential. A subsequent legislative initiative to modernise the status of the reserve will be finalised in 2022, including the possibility for ex-military or ex-reservationists to have final leave to return after the date of final leave and to facilitate the recruitment mechanism and the basic formation of candidate reserveists.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u70	I had a feeling that you would talk about this in your policy paper for 2022. You've already lifted a tip from the veil. That's very good. I'm not inventing plans at the Home Office. Through our network, which everyone here has, such matters come to my attention. It would be interesting for you to contact the Home Office. I am sure you have already done so, given the proper functioning of your cabinet, to follow up on the issue. There is a potential risk for firefighters, who are perfectly capable of taking on the role of reservist. It would be disastrous for the defense reserve if such employees had to drop out and make choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u71	Mr President, Minister, after Russia, it now appears that China also has hypersonic weapons, a new kind of weapons technology. I questioned you on 10 February 2021 about the PESCO TWISTER project. At that time I regretted that Belgium was only an observer and was not a full member of that project on European hypersonic weapons. Madam Secretary, you are updating the strategic vision. Last summer, the expert committee's report pointed out that the Belgian Defence Department lacked air defense, that there was nothing present in the field of hypersonic missiles, and that we had to take action on this issue. Will you include the comments of the Strategic Committee, on the specific subject, in your update of the strategic vision? In the light of this update do you see reasons to change our observer status with that Pesco project Twister to full-fledged project member, as Germany has done? In what way do you see cooperation with industry? Can you give us a hint of the veil of your policy paper? How do you see them evolve?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u72	Mr President, the report I received from the Strategic Committee on 31 May will contribute to the work to update the strategic vision. I am currently working, in consultation with government partners, on updating this vision and the military programming law. The Strategic Committee underlines the need to develop a Defence, Industry and Research Strategy (DIRS) to develop and support national, scientific, technological and industrial potential in the field of security and defence. The principle No. 8 For the update of the strategic vision, the Defence Department, in consultation with the other relevant regional and federal actors, will fully support the development, implementation and monitoring of a DIRS. This strategy will help ensure that investments in the defence domain for capacity development, or research and development, return to society as much as possible, in the form of knowledge, technology and employment, in line with current national and European legislation. Particular attention will be paid to cooperation projects under the European Defence Fund and to structured permanent cooperation PESCO. Euro-Atlantic partnerships will also be addressed. Recently, a project officer DIRS was replaced by Defense, allowing proactive and structural communication with the Belgian industry to begin.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u73	Madam Secretary, the Harpoon Missiles of the Navy need to be replaced. The original plan of the Anti-Submarine Warfare Frigates, on which the Netherlands is in charge, provided the necessary capacity. The Dutch Defence will conclude the contract in 2022 to equip the frigates with the new missiles from 2024 onwards. This is the subject of discussion with the various foreign suppliers. Madam Secretary, what is the status of the Harpoon's replacement file for our Navy component? Can you confirm that the Netherlands has started the acquisition process and that we are looking for the same configuration? Can you indicate how many systems our Defense Department hopes to acquire and from when? It is striking that besides the Norwegian Kongsberg and the Swedish Saab also the Israeli IAI and Rafael would go to the contract. The Netherlands maintains a more intense cooperation with the Israeli army than ours. The purchase of Israeli systems is therefore not unthinkable. We know that cooperation between the Israeli industry and Defense with your current coalition partners might be difficult to digest. What's the government's position on that? Would you veto the acquisition of such Israeli systems? If so, was that also communicated to the Dutch Government? What was their reaction?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u74	The Netherlands is the lead nation for the binational project on the replacement of M-fregates or the acquisition of the Anti-Submarine Warfare Frigates. The replacement of the Harpoon will be dealt with in the latter project. The system is purchased not only for the replacements of the M-fregates, but also for other platforms of the Dutch Navy. The configurations are identical for the two Navys. The acquisition process for the replacement of the Harpoon is currently under way. The contract can only be concluded after the debriefing in the Dutch Lower House, which is scheduled for the third quarter of 2022. I can't give you any more details right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u75	Madam Secretary, your answer is very clear. Firstly, a replacement system, both for the frigates and for other platforms, is currently being developed. Secondly, we are working on identical systems between Belgium and the Netherlands. That is a good thing. Third, you're not ruling anything out. It is interesting that you do not exclude the Israeli systems, especially in the light of some of the resolutions your coalition partners have written about cooperation with Israel. That is a remarkable observation which I take note of.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u76	Madam Secretary, in the plans of the WHI, Gunfire Brasschaat's collection will move to the new site in Ypres by 2023. This means that next year work will have to be done on the removal and installation of the buildings in Ypres for the museum function. In addition, the necessary staff will have to be recruited. How are the talks with the municipality of Brasschaat for the partial preservation of the site with museum function in order not to break the connection that the site traditionally has with the artillery section of Defense? How much are the costs for Defense associated with the transfer of the material from one site to another? Can the DOD carry out this task itself or will it have to use external partners to do so? The museum in Brasschaat is filled with objects donated by veterans and sympathizers of the museum. What will be the fate of the pieces for which the WHI no longer sees immediate use at the new location? Between 2022 and 2025, the activities of Defence in Ypres will be phased out, allowing the WHI to move in. Are the pilots in Ypres ready for their new museum function, or will additional infrastructure be needed, such as strengthening floor panels and asbestos removal? If so, what are the costs involved? The volunteers of Brasschaat do not see the switch to Ypres and will largely drop out. Is the WHI actively recruiting new staff or volunteers in Ypres to take over the maintenance? If so, what are the costs involved? In 2023, part of the site would be transferred to the WHI. In 2025, the Department of Defense wishes to sell the necessary domains. Is there an RUP for the site in format? In Ypres one still assumes that the domain is not alienated. Can you shed some light?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u77	Since 2016, there have been repeated contacts between the municipality of Brasschaat and the WHI and its predecessors. After a discussion with Prime Minister Jambon about the file in July, I confirmed in a letter in September that in case the municipality buys the site and there is a desire to create a museum, the WHI is willing to support it. It is up to the municipality to take an initiative. Neither the WHI nor I have so far received a concrete proposal on this matter. The transfer of the material from Brasschaat will be done by Defence and is part of the partnership between Defence and the WHI. My department has the necessary resources for this and the heritage to be moved is also a few pieces from the Defence Department. The vehicle collection in Brasschaat was not donated by veterans, but comes from Defense or from donations or exchange with other museums abroad. The pilots in Ypres are in very good condition and can possibly be modified modularly. A number of compartments from the past have been used with asbestos in the upper part, but they are easy to remove. The cost of this will be limited. A number of volunteers from the current Gunfiresite, especially those from the tanks, have already indicated that they will make the switch to Ypres. The artillery volunteers are usually older and will not make the switch. On the other hand, several new volunteers have already signed up for the site in Ypres. The employment of volunteers does not involve any other costs for the WHI than those on the current website in Brasschaat. About a quarter of the site in Ypres is transferred to the WHI, which amounts to almost 11 hectares. The rest of the site is sold. Defence and the WHI are in close consultation with the city of Ypres and the province of West Flanders for the preparation of a provincial spatial expansion plan. The piece that goes to the WHI remains military domain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u78	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. Of course, I'll keep following up the file closely. I do not need to repeat to you that I do not have such a high regard for the WHI and certainly not with his leadership. We'll see how things go.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u79	Mrs Vindevoghel, I would like to welcome you to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u80	Mr President, Operation Steadfast Noon was launched on 18 October 2021, with which 14 NATO countries, including our own, exercise nuclear power. Operating from two Italian bases, Ghedi and Aviano, NATO dual-capable aircraft simulated nuclear attacks in order to keep the deterrent credible. In June 2021, the leaders at the NATO Summit reaffirmed their nuclear share in the general NATO doctrine. You, too, were excluded from interviews with Humo and De Morgen that if other nations have nuclear weapons, we should be able to use them as well, because otherwise we are in danger. Madam Minister, that is a very good and certainly a bold statement. Knowing what parties from the majority have already said here in Parliament about nuclear weapons, that is very brave of you, and you have my full support in this area, which you probably know. I'm starting to appreciate you more and more. We'll be friends someday. Our country stands for the transition to the F-35, to which there is also an important choice for continuing our position as a nuclear sharing partner within NATO. Can we deduce from your statements that our country, as some parties within your government have previously indicated through resolutions and legislative proposals, will somehow try to disable the nuclear capacity of its F-35s through software downgrades or other physical changes? On 6 October 2021, the US Air Force carried out its final test in the certification process of the F-35, which will make that aircraft its standard DCA. This means that at the moment when Belgium receives its aircraft, nuclear capacity will be guaranteed. When does our air force expect to make the switch from F-16 to F-35 as its primary DCA device, with nuclear capacity? Do our pilots also undergo special training? Finally, during the transition from F-16 to F-35, our operations will be reduced to make the transition of pilots and ground personnel as smooth as possible. Will the reduced capacity of our F-16 fleet during that interim period affect the contribution we can make to NATO in terms of our obligations within the nuclear doctrine?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u81	There is no doubt that Mrs Vindevoghel will now make a similar plea.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u82	Mr President, it will be somewhat different. Madam Secretary, it's the first time I've been here. Each year, NATO Member States possessing US nuclear weapons train in the use of these weapons systems. The engineers of the armed forces of the Member States of this alliance are practicing the assembly of these atomic bombs. Operation Steadfast Noon recalls NATO's aggressive attitude towards the rest of the world. Peace organisations denounce these actions throughout the Member States, as in Germany, where peace activists have organised a demonstration against such exercises on the basis of Nörvenich. In Belgium, peace organisations such as VZW Peace share concerns about these exercises. Madam Secretary, do the various components of Defense participate in these exercises? If so, which units are involved? What tasks do they perform? Do you intend to end this participation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u83	To date, the F-35A manufacturer's planning still provides that the first Belgian aircraft to be delivered in 2023 will be of the Technology Refresh 3 Block 4 standard. This hardware standard offers numerous new options that extend the device's capabilities more sensitively. The fact that the devices are delivered according to a specific standard means that both the hardware and the software comply with a specific configuration, specific to that Block. It is therefore not appropriate to make adjustments to the software provided. The arrival of the F-35A in the 10 Tactical Wing, is expected in 2027. The F-16 is currently planned for 2028. These data determine the limits for air combat capability. We will keep our partners informed. Belgium shares with a large number of countries the vision of a world without nuclear weapons and calls for universal and full compliance with the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Belgium supports the strategic concept of the deterrent of NATO. In this context, specific exercises are organised, such as Steadfast Noon, in which units of the Air Component participate. As a reliable ally of NATO, Belgium supports the alliance's policy and attaches great importance to solidarity with its allies. Our country will neither take unilateral initiatives nor support them. Furthermore, our country also regards any non-proliferation measure, which, in close consultation with other NATO partners, increases confidence and transparency, as a source of stability. It sees these initiatives as a possible step towards a further global reduction in the number of nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u84	Madam Secretary, you will have our full support for this. The nuclear capacity of Block 4 is guaranteed, so we will be able to continue to play our role within NATO. Mr De Vriendt is not here, but allow me to note that he bites the sand. I have been in Parliament since 2010 and Mr De Vriendt since 2007. He's been saying all along that it's outrageous that we made those Block 4 orders. He didn't think that was possible, and he also found the order of the F-35 scandalous, as did your party, by the way. In this way it can be seen that one sometimes becomes a little more realistic and pragmatic by entering a government. That's important in life. I am realistic and pragmatic and I also want a nuclear-free world. I'm a Mayor for Peace, a peace dove and not a hawk at all. For me, all these weapons can be removed. I am not the main pillar of the arms factories in Wallonia and Flanders, on the contrary, but I am realistic and believe that this is the right line. In an interview in Humo, which was taken over by De Morgen and which I did enjoy, you said: "If other nations have nuclear weapons, we must also be able to deploy them. Otherwise, we're in danger." It's just two simple sentences. That's what the little man in Lubbeek, Bergen and Tournai understand. Everyone understands that, and that's the way it is. It is very good that we continue to fulfil our international obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u85	Madam Secretary, it is not clear to me whether we are participating effectively in these exercises.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u86	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u87	Yeah, so I didn't hear it right. We continue to support the peace organisations, because we think that is important. These organisations repeatedly remind us that further nuclear developments are not a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u88	Mr President, Minister, at the NATO meeting of Defence Ministers on 21 October, Defence Ministers decided to step up their efforts to develop and acquire ground-based air defence capabilities that will protect Allied personnel, equipment and facilities from air threats. Our country participates in at least one of the four proposed projects, the Modular GBAD project, which aims to improve air defence at a very short, short and medium distance. It is somewhat remarkable because our country would have plans to restore the Mistral capacity, but for the time being it has no independent power. Could you explain the Belgian contribution to GBAD and explain why our country is not aspiring to participate in the two other Rapidly Deployable Mobile C-RAM and GBAD C2 Layer projects for battalion and brigade levels for the time being? To what extent do we commit ourselves to the signing of this agreement? In other words, what contributions and investments are expected from our country? Considering that one, in your view premature, announcement from General Gérard's New Year's speech has already become a reality with Caesar's purchase, how far does the Defense Department currently stand with the plans for the reactivation of a Mistral capacity in Lombardsijde? On what date does the DOD aim now? Which partners or suppliers is Defence already in conversation with?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u89	Mr President, Mr Francken, as I informed Mr Buysrogge last week in response to his question on the strategic vision, I am working, in consultation with government partners, to update this vision and the military programming law. It will take into account an amended geostrategic framework and security environment. In line with the coalition agreement, Defence will continue to invest in European capacity shortages and anchor capabilities with privileged partners. In order to preserve the know-how within Defence and operate with any new capabilities as soon as possible, training and training will be carried out on the basis of the existing inventory within Defence. With regard to the reactivation of Mistral capacity, France is prepared to assist Belgium. There are currently no conversations with potential suppliers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u90	Mr President, Minister, I think the Mistral capacity is a very nice capacity, and I have seen it in action once. It would be an added value if it could be realised, together with France or alone. You certainly have our support in that regard. You say you're working on the strategic concept. That will be discussed in this committee in the coming months, and I certainly look forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u91	Madam Minister, it has already been mentioned in part in the questions put by Mr Francken and Mrs Vindevoghel. The employability of the F-16s, especially in the light of the replacement program and the transition to the F-35 later this year. The F-16s will commence their mission in airspace over Estonia as part of the Baltic Air Police. The air component will take on the difficult task of getting their pilots and their personnel ready for the transition. That will weigh on the availability of our fleet for operations at home and abroad and our deployment in the coming years. Can the Minister explain what the impact will be on the employability of our air component in the coming years? How much will the transition weigh on our ability to carry out operations abroad, in number of devices that we can deploy and in support staff? Are future participations in operations such as Baltic Air Policing and Inherent Resolve at risk or can the reduction weigh on our QRA capacity? What agreements have we made with our allies and partners about reducing our commitment in the coming years? Until when does the DOD estimate that the Air Component will have to operate with reduced capacity?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u92	A study is currently under way to determine the level of ambition that Belgian air combat capacity can maintain through the transition from F-16 to F-35. The QRA hand-over role for the Benelux airspace and a limited commitment for the benefit of expeditionary operations are also part of this study. There are no preliminary results yet. It is therefore now premature to comment on this transition period.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u93	It is an excellent thing that this is being investigated, but what is the timing of this study? I will not question you on a weekly basis if you say, for example, that the timing is soon or so. By what time could this study be completed? In the first instance, we will be able to return to this in the framework of the operation plan 2022. I invite you to be able to indicate at this time when this study could be completed. As part of your POP plan and the savings that Defence must make, you have announced that there will be no savings on ongoing operations. I invite you to make that a reality in your 2022 operational plan. To be continued, no doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u94	Madam Secretary, in February 2020 the frigate de Louise-Marie left for Den Helder for a meeting that would take between 12 and 15 months. I can also inform the members of the meeting that the frigate's ship's bell has been safely taken into custody by the parish of Saint Nicholas. She's on my cabinet at St. Nicholas City Hall and she's in safe custody there. It is expected that the ship will be brought back into service in 2022 in order to relieve the sister ship, the Leopold I. This was already dealt with by a number of old age problems. We talked about that last week. Madam Secretary, can you give us an update on the Louise-Marie's maintenance? Is that still within the budget and on schedule? When does the Defense hope to resume full operation of the ship? Since the Navy was completely dependent on the Leopold I during this period, the ship had to take on a heavy agenda. This has also led to the necessary wear and tear. Does the Minister consider it possible that the ship would have to return to its chain before the Louise-Marie returns? Is it also waiting for a heavy maintenance once the Louise-Marie returns? Given the difficulties of working up the Leopold I crew, in which they could only participate in NATO's operations at a later date, does the Defense expect similar problems in the transition of part of the crew to the Louise-Marie which could mean delays or limitations for its operational return?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u95	The maintenance of the M-fregat Louise-Marie is carried out within the budget of the project mandate, but has experienced a slight shift of two months in the time schedule due to COVID-19 and the decision to perform a number of additional maintenance tasks and modifications. It will end in mid-January 2022. The actual maintenance is followed by an integration and aftercare phase and testing phases, with training and training in parallel with the staff. It is foreseen that the ship will be fully operational in the course of September 2022. An immobilisation period of the M-frigate Leopold I due to material defects is considered unlikely. An operational unit may sometimes have to deal with defects during its deployment period, with or without limited immobilisation. As from October 2022, the Leopold I will also have a long maintenance and conservation period planned. This maintenance period has been on maintenance planning for a long time and is in accordance with the maintenance provisions for a ship which has had a normal operating load since its last maintenance, which is the case for the Leopold I. Each crew shall undergo the same tests to determine the readiness and achieve the required level of safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u96	Madam Secretary, it's not gonna be about those two months either. It is particularly important to have an operational ship as soon as possible. I think it is reasonable that there should be some delay in such a heavy maintenance task. You say that, together with the post-care phase, we are also working on the work and training of personnel, that the ship will be operational again by September 2022 and that the Leopold I will enter immediately afterwards for a major maintenance. This will, of course, de facto mean that there will again be a number of restrictions on operational deployment. I would also refer to my previous question on the F-16s and the upgrading of staff to the F-35. Now we get this. It is, of course, powerful to say that we are not going to save on operations, but we have to note that this will de facto lead to savings because ships are in maintenance and personnel need to be retrained to new systems. That is what we are looking at, knowing that military operations are just the attraction of the military profession. Here, too, we look forward to further concreteisation in the following weeks when discussing the operational plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u97	Mr Buysrogge, let us stop always pretending that these were choices that we have made or that we are setting ourselves up to limit budgets! We are faced with a reality, a material that sometimes comes to the end of life sometimes. It is essential to be able to train people. Of course, we're recruiting a lot today. We haven't recruited enough before. It also takes time to train these people, but it is certainly not a choice we have made. Personally, I wish I'd found a department we'd been better at before. Today, we are facing a situation. We try to do the best we can with a sometimes a little desperate situation that we found when we arrived. There is no choice or willingness to make savings on the left or on the right. I've told you a thousand times. I'm doing what I can here with the staff and our staff to do as best I can with what we have.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u98	Madam Minister, we can discuss this, but I think we should do so when the operational plan is ahead. We will then be able to discuss it on the basis of concrete and clear data.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u99	Madam Minister, Mr Pillen has already touched on this point. You've made it known to the world in the last few days. Mr Pillen has already asked that, in view of good agreements and in order to be able to discuss this properly, when proposing plans, the data should also be sent to Parliament. I think that makes sense. You organized a press conference and distributed a press release. Does the plan contain elements that were not mentioned in the press release? What's the horizon of the plan you suggested? Is this only valid for the remainder of the reigning period, or is it intended to roll this out until 2030, in line with the update of the strategic vision? The 3 Battalion Parachutists to Gavere, the 1/3 Battalion Lansiers to Tournai, the Battalion Carabiniers Prince Baudouin-Grenadiers to Lombardsijde, these are not in themselves new announcements. Can you give an overview of the costs associated with transferring the battalions to the new locations? I am thinking of the costs of upgrading the infrastructure or the costs of moving, but also of any savings on the original site. Finally, what is the ratio behind the maintenance of the crib on the site Kazerne Saint-Laurent in Liège later this year? What will be the destination of the building after sale later this year? How much does the DOD hope to get with the sale of this historic site?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u100	Defence's new quarter-hour plan includes a global investment programme for the period 2021-2030 that responds to five main objectives: optimising the regional distribution of Defence Quarters, improving local socio-economic integration and cooperation, supporting major procurement programmes with the necessary new and/or adapted infrastructure, staff re-evaluation and support for the rapidly increasing recruitment and the existing, often old, heritage renewal, standardising and energy renovation and rationalization. The accompanying press release, which was distributed by the Defense Department on Monday 25 October, focuses on the main elements of the plan, but does not, of course, repeat the complete list of all planned infrastructure works in Defense for the next ten years. The installation of a company of the 3 Battalion Parachutists in Gavere, an squadron of the 1/3 Battalion Lansiers in Tournai and a company of the Battalion Carabiniers Prins Boudewijn-Grenadiers in Lombardsijde, is accompanied by a number of renovation works for an estimated total of 5.5 million euro for the three sites, spread over six years. The potential savings on the original sites were not yet quantified, but are part of the permanent general rationalisation exercise within Defence. The site of Saint-Laurent in Liège is sold to the province of Liège at the end of this year. The negotiations are still ongoing, so the amount of sales cannot yet be notified. The children's crib on the site will indeed be retained because there are still many defence staff living and working in that region. It is also important that the communication of this 15-minute plan should offer defence personnel a long-lost perspective. This is also part of my overall approach to staff, translated into the POP plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u101	Understandably, the press release contains the main elements. The quarter-hour plan itself is much more extensive than that. Is there any possibility that the comprehensive plan will be delivered to the committee? You say you are. I'm looking forward to that. I will deliver that plan to the committee members. I'm sure everyone's interested in that. There is no doubt that we can go into this further if concrete elements need to be looked at. We will look at that with a great deal of attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u102	Madam Minister, in a recent statement you underlined the desire to open up the neighbourhoods of the future. You highlighted, among other things, the objective of closer cooperation with local civil organisations and various civil partners in the fields of human resources and research and development. For several years now, Defense has been spending a lot of tasks and services on private sub-contracting services, such as meals and mobile bridges. As a result, we note some shortcomings. In July, for example, the floods delayed the deployment of mobile bridges due to a lack of equipment. Madam Secretary, which actors do you mean with local civil organisations and civil partners? Are you referring to companies? What form will the opening up to civil partners take?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u103	With the quarters of the future, Defence will strengthen its presence in the country's socio-economic fabric by increasing the shared use of the new infrastructures, optimising cooperation with the Länder on recruitment, selection and training, intensifying cooperation with the Länder, provincial and local authorities on, inter alia, spatial policy and nature management, and strengthening cooperation in research, technology and development with the academia and opinion. The concrete development of these partnerships is currently being studied. As mentioned above, exploratory talks are taking place with, among others, IFAPME, Forem, Cité des métiers and local security services, police and fire brigades. The realization of a win-win situation will always guide the implementation of each collaboration. For supporting tasks, the private sector will be called upon if it appears to be cost-effective or more effective, but always with the guarantee that no operational mission of Defence will be compromised. Specific military tasks will always be carried out by Defence personnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u104	Madam Minister, we are also in favour of civil reinforcement, so that Land defence can provide good support to the population and stay close. What has happened in Wallonia shows how important our services can be in supporting people. You say you want to appeal to the private. I myself worked as a trade unionist in the sector. Outsourcing is not always for the benefit of the population. If the private sector is called upon to save costs, I fear that it could be at the expense of a good service. That's what we're worried about. For example, the Chief of Defense himself said with regard to the mobile bridges, which have passed to the private, that it had lasted longer. He therefore criticised the fact that those mobile bridges were outsourced and not in his own service. Above all, we must ensure that the public authorities are responsible for providing good services to the public, including in those sectors, and that it is not outsourced to the private sector, which is not intended to protect the population, but to make a profit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u105	I'm not suspicious of putting staff at the centre of priorities. When I say that we can use the private sector, it is a possibility when the interest is demonstrated by a study, for example. On the other hand, we must not mix with what happened during the floods. We haven't invested enough to help the nation. During the budget conclave, for the department, we managed to get a nice envelope to set up a logistics hub, which will also allow us to acquire a series of resources that we would have liked to have had during the floods. In this way, we could be ready if something was still going to happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic618x.u106	That is a good thing.
