ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u1	I propose that the work of this afternoon begin with the oral questions to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, who is physically present here, for which I thank you. We have until 5:00. We will therefore try to speed it up. We will start with a topical debate on the right of visitation, a concept which, depending on the group, is formulated in different ways.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u2	Debates of the European Parliament 55018873C by Mrs Van Camp is withdrawn. I understand Mr Van Langenhove is still in the car. A decision by the Conference of Presidents does not allow questions to be asked from the car. Then Mrs Daems can bite off the start.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, on Friday morning 11 June, we heard from the press that you have placed the residence or the right to visit, as you would like to call it, on the government table. In your policy statement, you declared your diplomatic desire to seek a solution for a group of people who do not want to think about their return in any way, let alone cooperate with them, after consulting the various stakeholders such as the police and administration, political partners, civil society organisations and academics, taking into account the recommendations of the Bossuyt Commission and paying attention to ensuring the fundamental rights of foreigners. Where does your right of visitation differ from the right of residence? What form will that right of visitation take? Has it been tested with a wide range of representatives from civil society and the academic world, as you announced in the policy statement? If so, which organisations and academics? What comments have they made on your proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u4	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, not so long ago, the question of visiting private places where illegal residents were staying had given rise to legal as well as political controversy. As we recently discussed with you in committee, the effectiveness of the orders to leave the territory (OQT) is a problem that does not date from this legislature – nor, moreover, from the previous one. Recently, we were able to learn that you were working on a new comprehensive return mechanism and, therefore, on the definition of a legal right that could allow our police services to visit private places clearly occupied by illegal persons who are at the end of the procedure and who have exhausted all recourse to stay here. These individuals therefore have no choice but to respect the decision taken on them and to leave the national territory. Your project would take into account different aspects of the problem, from planning for forced return to contact with the country of origin. We know this very sensitive case. However, the pedagogy, the reminder of compliance with the rules in force, the supervision by a planned investigating judge or the right of home visit already in force in case of tax fraud, can help, it seems to me, to advance this project which was paralysed under the previous legislature. Because of its delicate nature, this topic obviously raises questions, but above all requires clear and unambiguous answers. Mr Secretary of State, are the measures in the draft legal framework different from the old text discussed in the previous legislature? What is the current estimate of the number of persons at the end of the proceedings, having received one or more TQOs and thus illegally staying in the national territory? What specific measures should be taken to allow the police to visit these private places? How do you define the concept – provided for in your project – of a "manifest act of refusal" to leave the territory? What are the particularities of this procedure of visitation, in terms of the conditions of forced return to the country of origin, in relation to the forced return, as usually carried out, of a person who is already, in any event, at the disposal of the services of the Aliens Office and the police? What formal arrangements and decisions should be made by the country of origin of the illegal national to allow such a visit and his/her forced return? Finally, Mr. Secretary of State, have you conducted any further consultations with the administration and the police on this matter? What are your objectives in terms of methodology and time frame for implementing the scheme?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, I too took note of the package. After all, it is more than just the issue of residence or right of visitation. I understand that all this is very sensitive. Mr Pivin said that it was aétéparalysé in the previous legislature. At that time there was a lot to do around. There was the Civil Platform and the Citoyenneté in Brussels. There was the problem of the Maximilian Park. There was a huge, spontaneous wave of solidarity with refugees and migrants worldwide, especially Syrians, but also Afghans. That was good to see. What we wanted to deal with had nothing to do with it. It wasn't necessarily about transit migrants. It was about a very big problem, which has been dragging on for years and has become increasingly painful and increasingly difficult for the police forces, to deal with people who have been completely executed. Such a transit agent is often not even in a procedure, but it became an amalgam and the French-speaking press deliberately did disinformation there. I have never seen that before, and I have also expressed my frustration within the government. They threw everything at a pile. It was about people who are completely out of court. Then an address was checked to see if the persons present, individual migrants or families were illegally on the territory. It's been happening for years. Every day the police do so, even under this purple-green government, also under Prime Minister Di Rupo. It happens every day. The problem is that there is no legal framework around it. We see more and more, among other things through information from the NGOs, that there is no more opening. Sometimes the television is heard, or the children. It's smelled like the pot's mucking on the fire. When the cops ring the doorbell, nobody opens the doorbell, but people know they're home. It is becoming more difficult and difficult for the police to apply the foreign law of 1980. In every European country there is an arrangement on this, but in Belgium there is a hysterical debate about things that do not matter at all. At one point, Mr Michel said: on doit paralysisr le projet. I am glad, in itself, that you have the courage to go back to that point. After all, it really is a problem. Mr Secretary of State, what is it about and what have you adapted? A judge of inquiry should give his approval, but so was we. I tabled that bill together with Mr Geens. If you do not trust me, until now, but I think there are no general doubts about the basic respect that Mr Geens has for human rights. That would be grotesque anyway. If anyone in this country dares to say that, I want to cross swords with it. Mr Nones had tabled it, and it was approved twice, but it did not go ahead. Marrakesh couldn't, but we had to take this. For the sake of peace, we have done so. You take that back now. This is then immediately a statement war, no matter what this topical debate proves. I wish you every success in that. My question is, above all, what are the other elements in the deal that you want to conclude. There is, after all, less clarity about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u6	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I will not speak again about the context; we know it. We were astonished to see in the press the intention to rework one of these issues that created a deep emotion, as has already been indicated by my colleagues, in public opinion, under the Michel government. In this Parliament, even in the ranks of the majority, the bill has sown enough indignation for the government to be required to reverse. With regard to this indignation, I hear Mr Franken saying that it comes from the French-speaking press. No, it's not. I also hear the term "paralyzed." No, it's not an appropriate term. No, the government was not paralyzed, it did not have to step back in the face of social pressure or that of the supporting organizations at the time. No, we've taken auditions into account. And the people who were heard were not Francophone journalists, in this context. Not at all. So I would like to bring a certain truth here. We're always saying, "It's Francophones, it's PS pressure." No! Let's stop it! The problem here is proportionality. While the law may provide for forms that limit the fundamental right, it can be understood, but this limitation can only be made in accordance with the principle of proportionality. After countless reactions and opinions on the very principle of the project – and not by French-speaking journalists, I repeat – I am sorry to say that the question still arises. Mr Secretary of State, why, when these opinions were clear, come back with this project? What are your intentions in this area? What alternatives do you plan to implement the government agreement to improve return procedures? That is what is at the heart of the question. Please, let's stop always bringing everything back to the Francophones! Mr Franken, I have a great deal of respect for the fact that you were Secretary of State. We do not agree with everything you have done, but today you are no longer Secretary of State. Let us deal today with what is happening and have an analysis of what is happening today! I wish we could go beyond this speech, which is a bit easy, too easy, and which is always to judge Francophones.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u7	Mr Francken, you are referring to a personal fact?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u8	Yes, I would like to say something about this, Mr President. I am not saying that all French-speaking journalists have done propaganda, no, but the disinformation was appalling. I don't always say that. I don't want to stigmatize anyone. I don't even do that. You need to learn to listen better. Whatever has gone on in this dossier, including in French-speaking newspapers, including the RTBF, I can all prove in black and white. I'm not taking back a word of that. What was said then had nothing to do with the draft law that we tabled here. This was also approved by the Council of State, by the government, and it was submitted by CD&V. That had nothing to do with it. It wasn't about transit migrants. It wasn't about the plateform citoyenneté. That's never been the case. These social organizations have a big lump of butter on their heads here, and I can prove it. I'm certainly not taking back any of that, absolutely not. I certainly do not stigmatise all journalists and all French speakers, but I noticed that very strongly at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, we are pleased that this government is pursuing a balanced return policy. We were also asking for the return coaches. The old recipes alone did not work. All this needs to be embedded in a wider picture, focusing on future orientation, cooperation with civil society and so on. The gap between the DVZ and the conversations, versus the thorough guidance, are also essential for us. It is also essential that the entry into the home can only take place in the very last instance, if one resists in all possible ways and, for example, hides himself in one's own home. When a draft on the subject was discussed in the previous legislature, we were concerned about that. We said it couldn't be done in that form for us. We also listened very carefully at the hearings and read the opinions of the investigators, the League of Human Rights and Myria, among others. I recall that the League was delighted at the intention to put an end to the way in which homes were entered in the act without the permission of the investigating judge. There were quite rightly many sharp remarks about the way that happened. Mr Secretary of State, to what extent do you wish to respond to these legitimate concerns? Such a system must be in line with the Constitution. We understand that you wish to respond to all the comments made by the Council of State. Is that right? For us, for example, it is essential that the investigating judge or another judge does not become a stamp judge in this story. There must be full monitoring. The judge can therefore authorise the residence only on the basis of a thorough examination of a file which he himself holds. Entry must be proportionate and must be the last resort. The court concerned must also be kept informed by means of a report. It is essential for us to be consistent with the whole of the preliminary process that you are currently working on. Mr Secretary of State, is it really the intention to respond to all these concerns? Do you want to explicitly prohibit the old style of residence, i.e. in the act and without authorisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u10	Mr President, I would like to reply to Mr Franken and thus close the debate. I can hear Mr. Francken reshaping his remarks by saying that the entire French-speaking press has not taken a position that could be equated with orientation or propaganda. I would remind you that there is freedom of the press. This freedom is essential. The press makes their choices. It is independent and free. We are talking about RTBF, that is, a public service. I want to be a guarantor of the independence, responsibility and ethics of a public service. It's important. The press is free to speak, but I recall what I said earlier. As Ben Segers pointed out, the Judicial Order, in particular, issued opinions in which it criticized the proposal made in the past, in the time of the Michel government, on home visits. It wasn't the press that blocked it. It is above all and above all the Judicial Order, those who live on a daily basis these actions which must be binding, which has given very critical opinions on this option. The PS very clearly requires a proportional view of things.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u11	I'd like to raise a point as chairman. I notice that the debate is slipping towards polemics between Members of Parliament. For me, that is not a problem, but actually oral questions are intended to enter into the debate with the Secretary of State. I would therefore like to confine myself to the questions and the debate with the Secretary of State, whom I would now like to give the floor to answer. After that, everyone gets plenty of time to replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u12	Mr President, it is indeed a good thing that we are discussing this issue. Perhaps we still need to get used to the new reality in which we try not to have heated public debates on certain issues that are rather delicate. This may have happened occasionally in the past, but I do not know if this has often led to better politics. In any case, there have been a number of challenges that have not come up with the necessary answers. The context can then be determined later, but we must first of all look at how we can do better ourselves, because heated debates do not bring the solution closer, quite the contrary. It is clear that I have also heard from Members of this House that we are working towards a common goal, in particular a policy that is humane and coherent. No one can oppose such a policy, but we do not achieve it by means of flame politics or polarisation. So I will stick to that in this dossier and in other files as well. That is why the work on my proposals is continuing within the government. I will, of course, take into account and listen to the concerns and concerns of the partners in the government. I can only regret that the debate has turned into a media debate, but I can only hope that everyone who has the best interest in migration policy will feel the same way. However, I do not have that in my hands alone or in my own hands. I explained in detail in the committee during the exchange of views on 26 May the new policy on return. You ask a number of questions about this, Mr Francken, but I invite you to read the report on this very interesting exchange of views. All Members of Parliament present were very pleased with this and I therefore invite you to take a look at this report. Mr. Pivin, you asked a relevant question about the number of people per year who are ordered to leave the territory. There are 34,100 people, of whom an average of 23,500 are first ordered to leave the territory. These people will be followed individually, on a proactive return journey, which we discussed in this Parliament recently. It is important to me that it is not just giving someone a piece of paper to leave the territory, but that every individual be really accompanied. It is a different policy because it is important for us to achieve a better migration policy and a better return policy than before. With regard to the right of visitation and other elements, the note proposed a set of legislative measures designed to establish a restrictive return policy at legislative level. The element of right of visitation is indeed one proposal that should be applicable to a very limited group of people. The whole range of measures must of course be discussed within the government before I can propose them here in the Chamber. I could first tweet about it or send out information about it to the media myself, which would then fill beautiful front pages and outline the context better than the half-truths I sometimes had to read. However, that is not how I deal with politics. After all, I am trying to achieve results. However, Mr Segers is right. It is important to take into account all possible existing concerns in this context. The most important aspects of such proposals are proportionality, subsidiarity and all the elements that need to be taken into account. I repeat, however, that we should discuss this first within the government, because we know what has been done with the result of the vote, among other things. Mrs Daems, Mr Pivin, there has been no consultation with representatives of civil society, the academic world, the judiciary or the police, which makes sense. After all, I first consult with my colleagues in the government, as it should be. After that, I will not fail to consult with all the other actors. However, it is of course first of all important that the government looks at what steps can be taken. Mr Van Langenhove, in your question you have also looked at closed return centres. My services have worked hard over the last few months to optimize the plan, as I have already indicated in committee. The various needs were identified and discussions were held with the partners involved in the implementation of the plan. That too is one of the elements of the plan, on which we shall first allow the talks to take place in the government before I can give further details. I understand the repeated question, which is certainly justified. The government agreement also states that we want to take steps in this area which, unfortunately, have not been implemented in the previous government for reasons which you yourself are entitled to fill in. In any case, we must look at this issue within the government, and I will do my part. You also said that the police would no longer be allowed to apprehend foreigners without legal residence in public space. I don't know where that information came from. At least she's not right. On the basis of Article 74, 9° of the Foreigner's Act, police forces may take aliens who are not in possession of an identity document in public places and subject them to a measure of administrative arrest, pending the decision of the Foreigner's Office. That is a policy that we have known for years and which is actually sufficient. We give someone the order to leave the territory and then they happen to be met somewhere, in a train station or something, ten years later, and then one has to start returning. That is not how it works, hence the need for an upcoming return policy where there is effective guidance. We hope to be able to work on this and I hope that everyone, the majority and the opposition, who gets to hear the plans, will think constructively about it. If we all do that, I hope to achieve results quickly and to be able to provide all of you with the necessary information quickly here in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u13	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. In your policy statement, you have promised constructive solutions: good case management, support, guidance, pilot projects, intentions that can effectively build a relationship of trust with these refugees. I wonder where this aspect of your policy is. You cannot fail, on the one hand, to develop these constructive solutions and, on the other hand, to develop the repressive apparatus further. This way you feed the fear of these people, provide more distance between them and your services and more will be hidden. What's the difference between residential entry and right of visitation I didn't find out here. I would certainly like to say something about the principle of the inviolability of the home. This can only be called into question for serious crimes, for which a judicial decision and serious evidence are required, not for the administrative problem of the right of residence. I think you will never be able to reach a broad consensus on this issue. At the time, the protest by civil society organisations and the people forced the Michel government to back down on residential entrances. They are now ready once again to protect the rights of citizens and refugees, and I agree with them very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. Your approach attempts to provide a real answer to a real problem, which is not, however, huge. You mentioned about 33,000 orders to leave the territory and I have the weakness to believe that these are not 33,000 home visits. We have to do the part. Nor is it a Community problem, even if some imply it. It is simply a matter of respect for the rule of law. And this respect does not alter the notions of international protection, it does not alter the questions of solidarity, of humanism towards people. But without that respect, there is no longer any protection in any field. We are faced with a question of legal certainty simply. Mr Secretary of State, I wish you peace of mind in the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, I understand that it's difficult for that case to be in Latest News. That does not, of course, make it easier to find a compromise. That's gonna be interesting to keep looking at it from the opposition. I'll keep an eye on it. If you are talking about flaming politics and trying to hand out a few taps, especially in my direction, so I have understood it in any case, you must continue to do so. What I read is the no pasarán of Ecolo. I also read the P.S. press release. So I know where this is gonna lead. Anyway, I'm curious. I can always learn, of course. We'll see what comes of it. If the legal framework is as Mr Segers says, I wonder whether it will not be better as it is now. After all, if it is done in such a way that it is a fully-fledged judge, and not in the way that we have worked it out, the procedure will be so difficult that no one will start it at all. That's how I understand it. It is perhaps better to keep the situation as it is now than to make it administratively so difficult that it is almost impossible to get back certain stubborn refusals and collectors of orders to leave the territory. I don't know where this is gonna lead. We'll see. You say that you will look at this further in the government's lap and that you do not want to do anything about flame politics. We'll wait and see. You even refer to the electoral result. I don't know if that's appropriate, but okay. We'll wait and see. I believe that it is important to go to a legal framework for residences that are workable in practice. I also understood that there were other elements and that you are also working on the return centres, the coaching centres, or the counters. I hear that dozens would be opened, some in Flanders and some in Wallonia. I hear you're looking at your colleague from the Finance and Budget Department to link that up. I wonder where that will go and how that will work. We've had centres like this for years. They weren't very successful. But maybe things will be different now, won't they? We'll all wait and see.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, what is important here is to remember that in the same majority, between loyal partners - it is important to say so because it seems to be surprising - we can say things to each other. It is, moreover, better to say them and to hear them, otherwise it is there that the majority of the people go to the water. We've seen this in the past. Here, we say things to each other. I think it's very healthy. Secretary of State, I have no doubt that you have heard and that you will be aware of our expectations and that we will be able to work together on options. In the Socialist Party, we are in favour of a return policy that is better than what it is today; of course we are not saying the opposite. What we're saying and we've always said, and it's not a surprise, is that home visits today or tomorrow are not an option. There are a lot of other options that we can discuss within the government or that are in this government's agreement and that we need to talk about together. I also know that you understand our message and that we are together in this majority with this strength to be able to tell us things and to be able to work as a team, and that is important! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u17	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your partial reply. I'm going over my questions briefly, with the answers included. Unfortunately, you did not answer my first question. What will you do to bring back the families who are apparently refusing to return, if you make it impossible in advance for them to be placed in custom closed housing units? Secondly, I asked you how, without the instrument of residence entry, you would make forced return hard. You talk all the time about a detention policy, but that can only work if they are held up. If they refuse, what exactly will you do? There must also be some nuance to what you say about public investigations. It is well known that this has long been blocked by the left, because it is far too stigmatising for an illegal person to be arrested in public. In practice, this is done, of course on a legal basis, but only by chance. It only happens with, for example, a check for something else in a station. Then it may be that one encounters someone who should not have been in our country for a long time. However, it does not happen in a structural, systematic way, which would be more than a drop on a very hot plate in migration policy. My third question was what solutions will you finally provide when there is a manifest lack of cooperation with the illegal migrant who is to leave the country. Even your very weakened proposal of residential entrances, although we cannot call it that - you call it a right of visitation - which would only be applicable in a very limited number of cases, immediately encounters the hashtag no pasarán, it is not going to happen. Mr Secretary of State, I have participated in many negotiating competitions in my student days. If the other party says in advance that he is not doing anything and that he has no room for manoeuvre, it is well known that negotiations will be lost, especially if one operates from a very weak position. In recent years, you have often said, even in your attempt at the presidency of CD&V, that it must be clearer what you stand for. Then make it clear what you stand for in the migration debate. You keep saying you're in favour of a sticking-up policy, but what exactly is that? If your opponents in the coalition say no pasarán, that it is not going to happen, then what are you going to do about it? Then what exactly do you want there to be? Because that is still not clear, even after all the articles and answers. Then there was the question of the state of play concerning the closed centres. I hear there again the same thing as the many previous times I asked. I see you nodding. Perhaps you'll frustrate me as much as it frustrates me. I hear you now, after so many months as Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, saying that you have identified the needs of the closed return centres. But those needs had already been identified by Mrs De Block, who had already been mapped out by Mr Francken. The services are crying out for much more capacity. In fact, I hear that a triple capacity could be filled. That's what the services have been saying for many years. So the needs have been clear for a long time. I wonder what was discussed at the meeting on 11 June, when the matter was certainly discussed. Then there must be something to say to Parliament, unless you would rather keep us completely out of the discussion. I would have liked to have heard more about that. You also pointed out that many other elements of your plan were not discussed in the newspaper. I hope so, because I have the impression that the government likes to communicate with the newspaper, but not so much with Parliament. I would have liked you to have explained a few more elements in committee today, but I am still hungry in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u18	Mr President, I look forward to looking forward, together with the Secretary of State and the majority parties, for constructive solutions, in complete silence and peace. I am convinced that we must be able to find these solutions if everyone is to refrain from making major declarations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u19	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Francken's 55017971C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u20	Mrs Van Camp, I have listed the various measures taken to deal with applications for student residence submitted to the Yaoundé post less than a month ago. I assume this is a follow-up question. The legislative framework, which is largely European, leaves little room for manoeuvre to refuse a student residence application if the dossier is complete and the legal conditions are met. An application may be refused only in the case of fraud. Every year a review is made and my administration, the Belgian Embassy in Yaoundé and the Institut Français du Cameroun take the necessary measures to ensure that applications are dealt with effectively and that cases of fraud are removed. I would like to repeat the measures I mentioned last month. There's been a meeting with the FPS State Department. If necessary, an additional consul will be sent to Yaoundé to strengthen the team at the embassy during the peak of the requests. Secondly, the Foreign Affairs Department trained the team of the diplomatic post in Yaoundé. The applications for student residence were of course an important theme. Thirdly, the procedure was optimised, inter alia through training, further alignment of cooperation with the Institut Français du Cameroun, which plays an important role in combating and discovering document fraud. Fourthly, the DVZ has recently sensitized the educational world about the possible abuses of enrolments by foreign students. For example, there was consultation with the ARES, with the VLUHR and with specific educational institutions. Feedback and practical experience from educational institutions show that the information has spread well and that the educational institutions are now also attentive to the phenomenon of possible abuses when registering. My administration has been actively preparing the new academic year for months, in close cooperation with the Belgian embassy in Yaoundé and the Institut Français du Cameroun, of course in consultation with my cabinet. The aim is to ensure that applications are dealt with effectively, taking into account the rules applicable to Cameroon students. It is, of course, the same as for students of another nationality. The aim is to handle students' applications positively and quickly if the legal conditions are met and reject applications from candidates pursuing purposes other than studies or using fraudulent documents. If you come here to study, you can do it. Whoever's here to do that isn't gonna be able to do that. Nationality is less important when it comes to student visas. Finally, the draft recently adopted in this committee will make it possible to speed up the end of the stay of a student who is extending his studies in an excessive way or whose stay here has other purposes. You have also asked a number of questions about figures. I invite you to ask them in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u21	I notice it's still not raining in the Kempen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u22	Mr President, that is correct. Here the sun always shines. Mr Secretary of State, unfortunately the sun is not shining on the committee. After all, I expected more convincing answers. This is indeed a follow-up request. Perhaps you frustrate that because every follow-up question clearly shows that you are very good at announcing policy, but are completely behind in action. Turns out it's here, too. You give a list of what you will do or have planned. However, you cannot indicate after a month whether the approach has worked or not or whether you are following it. You reply that there has been some consultation and that you are trying to tackle fraudulent practices. In the case of specific questions, for example, whether you are applying for an entry ban on persons who have been ordered to leave the country, you are, of course, dancing around the hot stuff again. The answer is probably again no, as it turned out, when you returned a first charter to El Salvador, that you had not sent a travel ban along with the expensive flight of hundreds of thousands of euros. I can only conclude that you are very good at announcement policy, but that the balloon is pierced again and again here in Parliament. You also refuse to answer simple questions. I will certainly submit them again in writing. The list of those questions has been a long time. You are now refusing to answer the question in Parliament. I can think of the answer myself. You are not focusing on these important points, probably because, as with the first question we started the committee with, it is too sensitive for your coalition partners, which means that you are now trying to save the furniture through communication. However, you are totally behind in the implementation, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u23	Mr Secretary of State, the Danish Parliament recently adopted by a large majority a proposal aimed at making a radical change in the existing asylum policy possible. In concrete terms, the aim is to limit both the number of asylum applications and illegal immigration through life-threatening illegal routes. Ideally, the processing of the asylum procedure would take place in future in asylum centres financed by Denmark in a non-European country. Those who appear to be entitled to asylum can, of course, do so in the third country concerned and no longer in Denmark, except in a certain number of very exceptional cases. Those who do not appear to be genuine asylum seekers would be repatriated to the country of origin. A few weeks ago, the Austrian newspaper Die Presse said that the Austrian Government is very fond of this Danish approach. The Austrian Minister for the Interior indicated that he would like to travel to Copenhagen this month to obtain concrete and detailed information on the Danish Government's plans. Denmark's Minister of Migration wants to clearly profile himself as the Minister of Emigration too, i.e. of remigration. How does the Belgian Government assess Denmark's initiative? Will you contact the Danish Government to obtain further information, or will you exclude the Danish slope in advance? If so, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u24	Mrs Van Camp, Mr Van Langenhove, Denmark is not bound by the European Reception Directive, which makes a much stricter application of the concept of safe third country than the new Danish law does now, but Denmark is bound by international law and that makes the system legally very questionable. Under European law, there must be a link between the asylum seeker and the specific third country and therefore cannot be sent to anywhere. International law also presupposes that such a connection exists. The UNHCR's guidelines are very clear on this. The fact that Denmark adopts the law does not say anything about its practical implementation and its feasibility. The question is, therefore, what are the chances that Denmark will actually be able to implement the law in practice? We shall also have to wait and see. It is only when the rules are applied in concrete cases and examined by a Danish court that we will know the answer to them. As you know, I am sceptical about the feasibility of reception centres outside the European Union. The big question is why a third country would be willing to set up such a centre on its territory in order not only to screen migrants, but also to take care of them permanently. If it is realized, because Denmark has not yet concluded a concrete agreement, Denmark is likely to pay a high price for it and is therefore prone to blackmail. After all, when is a price high enough, when is it not and how does a country react? So it remains to be seen whether and when an agreement will be concluded. I also wonder if that is the model we want to stand for. I would like to share a number of concrete and practical examples. Do we really want to send a Syrian woman, Christian or not, to Rwanda, who is fleeing the atrocities of ISIS? Do we want to transfer a Russian homosexual man who flees persecution for reasons of his orientation to Eritrea? To which African country, which we pay well for, are we bringing a political refugee from Belarus? Subcontracting simply shifts asylum responsibilities elsewhere and circumvents international obligations. Above all, it is important for everyone to fulfil their own obligations in this area, not just Belgium or the European Union. Countries outside must also do so. That is the path we must take, with each country taking responsibility even more than is the case today. Externalisation exploits both the vulnerability of overburdened developing countries and refugees. Europe has a responsibility, as does countries in the region. This is part of the international talks and negotiations that are being conducted to achieve a better migration policy. The European policy I am advocating is therefore one where it is possible to apply for asylum at the European external border and where there are efficient and rapid procedures for dealing with it, so that it becomes clear quickly who should be given our protection and who should return. I have already reported figures on the number of people arriving in Europe who do not need international protection and how problematic that is for European migration policy, but also for the people who have left their country to hear here that they have no future here. The proposed European Asylum and Migration Pact is a package of measures and commitments that will enable us to achieve this together and in partnership with the countries that surround us. I have already emphasised that. The countries in the region are important. We need to help stabilize them. Because only by stabilising the countries that surround Europe can we overcome the problems associated with migration. We must do this urgently. I understand that there will be questions about how far we stand with the European Asylum and Migration Pact. I suggest I take care of that hatch later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u25	Thank you for your answer. I certainly want to come back to that later, but that was in the question you chose to link up. All right, I will come back later to what you are waiting for a European approach that has failed for months. In Politico there was an article about this which clearly stated that you are the only one who seems to hold on to this solution. I wonder how much longer it's gonna take. You do not want to believe us, but the Pope, UNHCR and Doctors Without Borders all clearly indicate that action is needed and that the current model of asylum and migration has really failed and leads to many human tragedies. How much longer you want to stick your head in the sand, I'm curious. I ask you this time and again in this committee, but in the meantime these human tragedies continue to occur. You then visit camps and feel guilty and then cooperate in a settlement of, I believe, some 70 people. But in the meantime, there are thousands and millions of people living in misery. You refer to that very caricature in your reply. Mr Secretary of State, you should be interested in how we can better focus on helping these people, because in the current model, for a very large part of the people you mentioned in your examples, it is not about the people who migrate here. The illegal migration is now rampant by human smugglers. We do not like this model, and the figures give us the same impression: two thirds of these refugees' asylum applications are refused, because they are not genuine asylum seekers, but they have suffered enormous suffering on the road, not to mention the dead at sea, to which the Pope and other organisations referred. So they do not even have the right to protection and in the meantime the most vulnerable are left behind. We fit for that model. You can say what you want about Denmark and our proposal, but you do not come up with any alternative. You are always very keen on condemning alternatives to dealing with illegal migration. I can only hear you say Europe, Europe, which no one else but you still believes in, but you are not going to find any solution. I think that's really reprehensible. You also always refer to the price of shelter outside the borders, where the main objective is not to keep migration out, but to structure it in a much better way. In the case of other questions, such as the cost of the corona tests, you are also displeased that we dare to ask questions about them. You say that the price of a human life cannot be expressed in money. Well, this is also about human lives. As long as you stick to that model, illegal migration will continue to exist, smugglers will continue to be rewarded and people will die in the sea on a pathetic journey to reach the European continent and this country. I am very disappointed that you are sweeping any attempt that another country, or we propose, directly under the carpet, but never with alternatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, you gave quite a shocking answer to our questions. You say that the Danish model may not be legally feasible and that it may be in breach of international or European law. However, you are not a judge or a lawyer, you are a politician. It is your job to say whether you consider the Danish model, the Danish approach, the new measure proposed by Denmark to be politically desirable, yes or no. If you consider it desirable, it is your job to ensure, in cooperation with Parliament, if possible, that the legal framework is adapted so that that measure can be taken. That's your job. You have doubts about the feasibility of the Danish model, but if there is one thing we no longer have to doubt, it is that the European model has failed and not, as you claim, for a few months, but for many years. That's beyond a shadow of a doubt. You are replicating the question as to why a third country would be willing to participate in such a model. That is obvious, for financial and economic reasons, for diplomatic reasons. We still have a very strong position with the European Union at the moment. Unfortunately, we never use that position. Let us use this position to convince third countries to cooperate in such a new migration model. You warn of blackmail in such a model. We are already being massively blackmailed today. I am thinking of Turkey, of Morocco and also of Belarus, which is now jumping on that blackmail train and abusing the many weaknesses of the European Union. We are already spending a large part of our migration policy. That costs us a lot of money, many billions, while it fails all over the line. So let's look at a new approach. You do not even think about the deterrent effect that such a measure could have. Asylum shoppers, many of them, will not choose Denmark, if Denmark makes it clear that it will be very difficult for them to abuse the system. Finally, you refer to the rapid procedures that could be put in place in Greece and Italy. You are just from there, Mr Mahdi. Let's not call each other Lijzebet. The procedures go fast there? I don't think so. Could it be faster in the future? I think that's a utopia. That European Migration Pact, which you are referring to all the time, is becoming a bit of a mirage. Everyone knows that if it ever gets there, it'll probably be another flop. Yet you continue to imagine it as the great miracle solution, the Wunderwaffen that we all have to wait for. I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u27	Mr President, before replying to Mr Segers' question, I would like to say that I will come back to the question of rapid treatment in Greece. After all, I had a very pleasant conversation with the EASO about this. We are once again discussing the question of the European Migration Pact. Mr Segers, there is still a saturation of the reception network of unaccompanied minors. During the first reception phase, this is mainly due to the increased influx of minors, the duration of the identification procedure and the sanitary measures. In 2021, on average, 39 minors were received on a monthly basis in Fedasil's emergency shelters created for that purpose. The vulnerability criteria still apply when minors are notified after office hours. These notifications are made by the Voogdij Office, which is also competent to contact other reception bodies. Indeed, the accelerated transit measure from the first to the second reception phase was one of the temporary measures Fedasil took during and shortly after the summer of 2020. However, the average flow rate has not been reduced. By 2020, it was around 34 days on average. In 2021, that's 42 days. The speed of the flow is thus determined by the duration of the observation required to determine an adapted orientation to the second phase of reception. The flow is also dependent on the Foreign Affairs Service and the Voogdij Service. In addition, the corona crisis delayed the registration by the DVZ from April to October 2020 and still has an impact on the organisation of age surveys in hospitals. Additional reception capacity is created by converting generic places into specific places and thus making them suitable for the reception of unaccompanied minors. Preparations for further conversions are under way and the start-up of additional reception capacity in the first reception phase is being thoroughly investigated. The measures taken by Fedasil to cope with saturation in the first phase of reception are still applicable. For example, the three regular observation and orientation centres continue to operate on crisis capacity and the number of reception points in the first phase was increased by using the full capacity of the reception centre at Sugny. Temporary places for the first phase were also created at the reception centre in Overijse and emergency capacity was created in the registration centre. As you know, there is still some work on the registration centre. With regard to your question concerning the numbers and nationality of minors refused reception outside office hours, I must ask you to put it in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, I did feel something coming. Thank you for your answer and your ambition regarding the registration centre, which is an essential link. However, it is worrying to learn that despite the transit measures, the deadline has not been shortened, but has become even longer, from 34 days to 42 days. I would ask you to continue to follow this and do everything in your power to ensure that unaccompanied minors can enjoy decent care. Thank you and good luck with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u29	Mr President, Mr Raskin, during the second and most recent rental period, the site was managed by Fedasil itself. For this purpose, Fedasil concluded a rental agreement with the Oostappen Parelstrand holiday park. The first lease agreement was concluded on 21 December 2018. It was renewed on 22 March 2019, on 2 September 2019 and on 19 December 2019 to end on 31 August 2020. The file hasn't been finalised yet. A proceeding was brought before the Pelt peace court. After the end of the rental contract and the outgoing location description, no agreement was reached between the parties on the rent damage. So we await the course of that procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u30	I would like to thank you for that, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u31	I do not see Mr De Smet, either in the Chamber or in Zoom, so his Question No is deleted. 55018803C. Mrs Jadin is not here either; her question No. 55018827C therefore also expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, the recent report by the European Court of Auditors is not easy for Frontex. The most important comments are as follows: There is no clear information on the costs of the operations, there are virtually no analyses of their own companies or their impact, and there are huge shortcomings in cooperation with Member States, while EUR 460 million was spent on the organisation last year and its budget is rising. Nor is it the first time Frontex has been compromised. Previously, and more importantly, the organization was already charged with human rights violations and participating in illegal pushbacks. For these reasons, Abolish Frontex launched an international campaign last Wednesday. This organisation does not believe that Frontex can be reformed and believes that a fair and safe system from the ground up should be developed. The tens of thousands of deaths, resulting in the present system, is one of the central considerations. To date, some 40 international organisations have joined the campaign. What is your assessment of the European Court of Auditors' report? What position have you taken in the past with regard to Frontex at European level? Has anything changed after the Court of Auditors' report has been taken into account? What will Belgium do to make Frontex respect human rights? What contacts have been made for this? What will Belgium do to ensure that Frontex is democratically controlled? Does Belgium support the continuous increase in Frontex budgets? Finally, do you think that Frontex's current incarnation should still play a role in European migration policy? What do you think of the demands of Abolish Frontex?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u33	Thank you for your question, Mrs Daems. Ms Jadin can also thank Ms Daems because this will allow her to get an answer to her questions. Mrs Daems, the strict and correct monitoring of the European external borders is of course of the utmost importance. This is particularly challenging for Member States with long physical land and sea borders. It is therefore a good thing that the European Union decided in 2005 to set up a common border and coastal surveillance agency to support the Member States in this task and to make European borders safer. Migration management requires well-organised borders and border posts. The Agency has a wide range of tasks. The funding must be complementary. This does not mean that Frontex can work uncontrolled, nor that the supervision of Frontex could not be strengthened. Today there is already an informal monitoring group in the European Parliament, a group in the Frontex Management Board, investigating incidents. A Fundamental Rights Officer was also appointed. In addition, 40 human rights monitors are recruited. The European Court of Auditors also monitors Frontex, as the report to which you refer also demonstrates. These control mechanisms are partly thanks to the established Belgian position that the European Union, its institutions and agencies must respect fundamental rights and freedoms. You can also read this position in the coalition agreement and is also defended by Belgium in the Frontex Management Board. Our country is represented by the federal police, which falls within the competence of my colleague Verlinden. Greater formal scrutiny by the European Parliament requires an adaptation of the 2019 Regulation, for which it is itself legislator. I have also taken note of the report of the European Court of Auditors on the Frontex Agency. I appreciate that such external evaluations can be carried out on a regular basis. In the coming months, further Agency assessments will also be published. Some conclusions are indeed harsh. Belgium will not fail to stress, by all means possible, that the Agency must take these problems into account in order to solve them as quickly as possible. Many of these problems relate to the principles of good governance. In accordance with Regulation 2016/1624, the Agency has been profoundly transformed over the past year. Its tasks have been expanded, notably through the creation of the permanent contingent - the standing corps. In practice, the Agency is already making efforts to address much of the problems identified in the report, for example with the extension of the Officer's service to cover fundamental rights. There is no reason to question these reports and recommendations in order to improve the functioning of the European institutions and agencies. Frontex has grown rapidly and the Court concludes that it is inefficient. On the basis of this report, the Court makes specific recommendations to Frontex and the Commission. Both must follow up on these recommendations. Belgium and the Office for Foreigners are cooperating closely with Frontex for return operations. In addition, Frontex has many other border control missions, for example in the Mediterranean Sea, in which Belgium and my services are less directly involved. My services have already indicated to Frontex the need to provide the permanent contingent with sufficient personnel. Experts sent by Belgium must mainly be deployed where needs are most acute, as in southern Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. The problems with Frontex, which are now being confirmed, are too important and cause too much suffering. We really need to take them very seriously. You say that there are a number of areas where Frontex still needs some work, but the problem is much more fundamental, I believe. The absence of a real approach to migration, which can only be progressive and constructive and has to work in the long term, must not be at the expense of the lives of refugees. That is what is effectively at stake here. I also find it a disgrace that Frontex is the only collective aspect of European migration policy. The only people who benefit from the militarisation of Europe's borders - and I do not mean only Member States like Hungary - are those who sow hatred and fear. We are also paying for the aggressive and illegal exclusion of people fleeing Europe's borders. I find that unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u35	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, you are a very active member of the committee, so I was a little surprised to read what you say in terms of one of your questions: 'People from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Somalia and Syria will no longer be allowed to apply for asylum in Greece if they enter the country through Turkey'. That's not right. It is not because a country is recognised as a safe third country, which does not have the possibility to apply for asylum. That doesn't mean they're getting it. I wanted to pass that on because I was surprised that you said this in your question. I assumed you were aware, but that could be me. Greece announced earlier this week that it will apply the concept of safe third country for asylum seekers from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Somalia and Syria when they enter the country through Turkey. This is a concept that must be applied within an asylum procedure and therefore certainly cannot be used to refuse access to an asylum application. It is also important to underline that, on the basis of European law, when this concept is used to declare an asylum application inadmissible, the opportunity should be given to the applicant to make arguments as to why that particular third country would not be safe for him or for her, in that particular case. This must therefore be taken into account. If an asylum application is declared inadmissible because there would be a safe third country, the file will be closed, but the person has not yet disappeared. An effective return to that so-called safe third country is another pair of sleeves. From Greece, for example, Turkey has not taken back one person in the last year, to give you an idea. To answer your question where a refugee of mine will have to apply for asylum, I can clearly say that they are doing the best they can in the first place where they feel safe and will be able to obtain the protection they are entitled to, if they are effectively refugees. Where that is, that will be different for everyone. That is what I am trying to make clear with the concept of safe third country, which was also misinterpreted. The travel route itself cannot therefore be sufficient to refuse asylum to a refugee. In other words, that is what the Convention on the Status of Refugees says, which you do know. However, I do think that we should invest in countries like Turkey so that it can become a safe country where asylum seekers can find protection. Using the concept of safe third countries is very good, hence the importance I have just emphasised of investing in countries in the region to strengthen them. This makes it possible for people on the run to obtain protection somewhere in the region, to which they are entitled if they meet the conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u36	Mr Secretary of State, I have taken that line from the press. You say that this is not correct and that it will not be applied in practice either. I will try to find out if that is the case, but I did not think the signal was bad in itself, in particular that it is being applied effectively that those who have already reached a safe haven cannot continue to travel. You now seem to agree with that and find a promising slope. I do not know what to make of it, because earlier you said that it was absolutely unspeakable, that it was a very expensive system and so on. However, you now seem to be insinuating that reception and the possibility of seeking asylum in the region is a path worth exploring. In any case, that is our opinion, because it would be an effective weapon in the fight against trafficking in human beings, the illegal migration with................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ You will certainly find a partner in us if you want to investigate it instead of burning it every time another country makes an attempt to install it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u37	Mr President, this question was withdrawn from me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u38	Mr Secretary of State, you have repeatedly expressed your support for the EU's planned visa sanctions for countries that refuse to take back their illegally staying nationals. There was talk that sanctions could come into force as early as this summer. As the summer officially begins in a few days, I would have liked to have received an answer to the following questions. Will visa sanctions against unwilling third countries be in force this summer? If so, which countries are they talking about? If not, when can we expect concrete measures? What are these sanctions in concrete terms? Is there also the most consistent and thorough form of sanctions, in particular the suspension or quota of visas? Is visa concessions already provided for certain countries which cooperate well? If so, what are these specific and what countries are they talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u39	Mr Secretary of State, I agree with the questions on visa sanctions. Summer is coming and you had a European meeting last week. What's come out of that? I also refer to the article in Politico. Apparently, you would be the only one who still believes in a good outcome to the European Migration Pact, so I could at least interpret it. I don't know if the reporter meant it that way, but I'd like to have some explanation. How'd the meeting go? Is the argument war still that bad? Is the water still so deep between Visegrad and southern Europe, among others, or is there any rapprochement? What about the European Migration Pact? Last time you said that you were very concerned about this, but that you would continue to pull the cart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions on the European Migration Pact. I did indeed take part in the Justice and Home Affairs Council in Luxembourg last week on the issues of asylum and migration. The Portuguese Presidency outlined progress in the discussion on the Asylum and Migration Pact. Limited successes on legal migration were achieved under this Presidency, with the conclusion of the negotiations on the revision of the European Blue Card Directive, a proposal that has been under negotiation for five years, and the external dimension with the organisation of a Jumbo Council of Interior and Foreign Affairs and a virtual Ministerial Conference on the Pact with the countries of North Africa. The committee has also launched the Talent Partnerships. In the session on the Asylum and Migration Pact, I took the floor to draw my colleagues' attention to the urgency of this dossier. I have advocated a rapid European follow-up. In the margins of the summit, the Portuguese Presidency has worked hard to reach a compromise on the establishment of a fully-fledged European Asylum Agency. Since my arrival, I urge my colleagues to give priority to this part of the Pact. I am therefore pleased that white smoke has come this week and that the Member States have dared to make progress in this area. This is the first important part of the European Asylum and Migration Pact, which has also been politically knocked off. The EASO will not only be given a more robust mandate, but will also take the first steps towards the European Asylum and Migration policy. I said earlier that I would talk about the faster procedures in Greece. Greece has been able to make a great deal of use of people working for the EASO and who have helped to deal quickly with the procedures. The speed of the procedure has been dramatically increased. I spoke with a lot of organisations in Greece and my last conversation was with the EASO, which was very satisfied with the work it has done in Greece to speed up the procedures there, and certainly in the islands, to ambitious deadlines. It's good to see it works. The European Agency for Asylum must be able to make a major difference in speeding up procedures in many Member States. This is an important step in itself because many countries have held onto the package deal in recent months. It is all or nothing and one finds it difficult to make progress as long as it is all or nothing. The fact that the European Agency for Asylum is being set up is an important achievement, but, apart from the broader story, it is, in principle, even a greater victory because it shows that we are already able to achieve results in certain areas. We must continue to do so in the coming weeks and months for the other parts of the European Asylum and Migration Pact. Working on European solutions to shared problems does not rule out the need to pursue policies at national level. We do, but it does not have the same content as the European level because it is a matter of other powers. Comparisons with other countries which are simply not comparable in legal terms are rather difficult. However, the Commission has launched diplomatic talks with several countries which do not or do not cooperate sufficiently with a return. She's finishing those conversations right now. Mr Van Langenhove, you were right to say that summer is almost here. That's right. I'm as impatient as you are waiting for the summer for several reasons. I do not know whether it is in your case to know whether the Red Devils will be European champions, I am slightly less so, but in my case it is certainly in play, as well as the fact that the European Commission will have to produce results on these talks very soon. She has to tell us whether these diplomatic talks have been successful or not. If this is not the case, visa sanctions should be used effectively for that first category of countries. I can't tell the countries. I've said that a few times. After all, the Commission's report falls under the 'limited dissemination' classification, and I do not want it to complicate the Commission's work by dividing it here, especially since this element is very important in order to achieve results in terms of the external dimension. Article 25a, paragraph 5a of the Visa Code provides for sanctions in the form of the temporary suspension of the application of provisions in the Visa Code. This could include, for example, the exemption for paying visa fees for diplomats, treatment periods, or the period of validity of multiple entry visas. Those are all elements that can be played with. Indeed, the reverse is also possible on the basis of Article 25a § 8. Visa fees may be reduced, the treatment period may be reduced to 10 days and the period of validity of visas may be extended. These are the root and the stick, which can be used in both directions. I hope that the Commission will come up with results very soon and that we will see a decisive European Union in this area, which is pursuing the policy it has to pursue and which, if it is necessary, if countries do not wish to discuss diplomatic matters and do not do their job, will resort to sanctions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u41	Mr Secretary of State, the Red Devils have already scored goals, unfortunately it is still waiting for yours. I shall come back to it very, very, very soon, as you yourself say, and hopefully we will be able to make progress. You say that some of the results have already been achieved, but it seems clear to me that we still have to wait for some results in this area. You say that you have argued for urgency, that the talks will be concluded and we will perhaps come back to that very soon. The list of countries was in Die Welt some time ago and I think we can assume that this information was correct. So until very, very, very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u42	Mr Secretary of State, you say that the European Asylum Agency is being set up, but it has been around for a long time. You say that there is now a political agreement to go one step further, and that is a good thing. Everything's being split up. There is no longer a single choice to be made, namely agreement on everything or agreement on nothing. What exactly is there a political agreement on? How many more people are there? What new procedures are there? People have always been made available by the DVZ and Fedasil to help in Greece or Italy, for example. What exactly was the decision taken? Could you explain this a little more? You also say that the deadlines have fallen considerably on the islands. What deadlines are you talking about? What was the deadline in Greece and what is it like now? You have the asylum applications as well as the appeal procedures before the Greek courts. How's that working out for you? Because those procedures usually take years. I would like to hear all of you say it, but you will still have to give me some more edge information so that I can believe it. Finally, you mentioned visa sanctions. The sanction would be to stop issuing visas for a country for 10 days. Should our European diplomatic posts then put all existing applications on hold? I'm afraid I didn't get it right. Perhaps you could explain that as well? What sanctions are there? What exactly do these people have to fear?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u43	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, last week or some time ago, at the initiative of the German Minister for the Interior, a letter was sent to the European Commission on the issue of secondary immigration from Greece. More specifically, the letter referred to the fact that asylum seekers recognised in Greece continue to travel to the north and northwest in order to apply for asylum again. The letter in question was co-signed by France, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Switzerland and Belgium. In this context, I would like to have an answer to the following questions. Apparently, the phenomenon of transiting recognised asylum seekers is even more in the elevator. How many specific cases are there for Belgium? How many applications for Dublin repatriations to Greece have Belgium submitted over the past five years? How many of these applications were granted? How many of these took place effectively? The Greek Minister's reply to the above-mentioned letter did not indicate that the Greek Government itself intends to make a great deal of effort to combat the phenomenon of secondary immigration. What do you and the co-signatorys really expect from the Greek Government with regard to the initiative? What are the possibilities of making the Greek Government more cooperative in this respect? What opportunities do you see for making changes to the principle that asylum seekers recognised in Greece have the right to move to other Member States, which is clearly being abused on a large scale? What possibilities and solutions do you see in concrete terms, in order to prevent a request for asylum by asylum seekers already recognised in Greece from being re-examined and possibly even granted asylum in that country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u44	Mr President, Secretary of State, you are just returning from a flash visit - given the co-empt measures in the Greek islands - to Lesbos in the new Mavrovouni camp. You left with Deputy Prime Minister Wilmès. Thank you for making this trip. It is important that you yourself, as the representative of the Belgian Government, can see this. I encourage you to also go, for example, to the border between Croatia and Bosnia where I was able to go. The situation is dramatic, too. With regard to the situation on the Greek islands, the government had undertaken to relocate 150 MENA. Only 28 have been relocated so far. If I return to your visit, what is your assessment of this situation in the new Greek camp on the island of Lesbos? Do you intend to advocate for increased reception capacity in Greece, asking for an increase in the aid provided by Belgium? Are further relocations of refugees stranded in Greece on the agenda? Which blocking points still remain and prevent Belgium from relocating more quickly the 122 MENA that have not yet been relocated?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u45	Thank you, Mr. Moutquin, for thanking me for making the trip and having the courage to fly. It was good to be there, you're right, if only on a symbolic plane. Although we need to go beyond symbolism, it is important to go to a country where we know that circumstances are complicated, to convey a political or societal message. This is an essential message to ensure that our means and way of ensuring reception are based on European standards. We ourselves as a Belgian State should try to see what we can do to help other states that are sometimes in difficulty. My feeling at camp was mostly frustration. In 2015, six years ago, there was the biggest migration crisis since the Second World War. Between 2015 and today, Greece received €3.3 billion from the European Union to manage migration and improve living conditions. Yet the conditions in the camp leave much to be desired. So it's frustrating at first. But I also have hope, because in the camp, work was under way, in different places, to improve conditions, fortunately, and to ensure that the reception we have to organise in Europe is based on our European standards. These are the standards described by the European Asylum Support Office (EASO). Five new camps are also under construction on the islands in Samos, Leros and Kos. Construction has already progressed well. For these three camps, I was told that it was a matter of weeks before these camps showed the level of reception that must be respected. The European Commission finances these camps and links funding to compliance with European EASO standards. Belgium supports this funding through its general contributions to the European Union. Capacity and expertise are provided by Fedasil and CGRA through EASO. It is important to work through EASO. If each country works bilaterally with Greece, we will not have a good organization of goods to meet Greece's needs. Hence the importance of doing this by the European Union. To correct this, it is not 150 MENA, but 150 asylum seekers, who are not necessarily minors. They are vulnerable families and individuals. That is what has been specified. It is difficult to match the people present on the islands with our selection criteria: to be in asylum proceedings, to have a certain vulnerability or to have a connection with Belgium. In addition, safety is an important element. Checks must be carried out every time, which does not always make things easier. In addition, the Greek authorities are very much solicited by the various relocation operations taking place in the Member States. At this time, lists of candidates are being communicated and transfers are being prepared. I hope that the promise we made to welcome 150 people will soon be realized. This situation shows exactly that we need a structural solution, instead of working ad hocly. As far as relocation is concerned, it is important that we show solidarity at European level. However, some reservations should be made. The case of Moria was a very specific situation, but in the future we must ensure that there are no ad hoc solutions. It must be a real structural solution. I have stressed several times today that this solution is the European Asylum and Migration Pact, with clear control, clear management and clear distribution. This is important to ensure that everyone is making a structural contribution to a real solution. In Athens, I also had several meetings with local representatives of EASO, Frontex, Médecins sans frontières, the United Nations Agency for Refugees, with whom I had lengthy discussions. In addition, I had a bilateral meeting with the Minister of Migration and Asylum and the Deputy Minister of Integration. We had several important discussions to understand the Greek situation. When we come from Brussels, it is not always easy to mention in European relations. Pointing at it is easy, but for me the important thing was to see what we could do as a Belgian state to be part of the solution at European level. I also pointed out that border management should be properly organised but should remain human. Mr Van Langenhove, in order to tackle the phenomenon of secondary migration by recognised status holders, I sent a letter with fellow ministers from other countries, not to Greece, but to the European Commission. In the letter we ask for additional support from Greece. That brings the solution to the problem. Accredited refugees and beneficiaries of subsidiary protection are entitled to housing, assistance, health care, education, training and employment according to European standards. In short, they have the right to integration as soon as they are recognised as refugees and are therefore part of that society. So we expect every country, and also Greece, to make maximum use of the European funds and projects available for this purpose. That is why we have sent a letter to the Commission with a number of European countries to express our concern. Moreover, we expect Greece to cooperate in the readmission of status holders in Greece who apply for asylum elsewhere in Europe, through enhanced exchange of information between our services and also through where required by national courts and courts giving individual guarantees. Finally, we expect Greece to act actively against networks that facilitate and actively promote secondary migration of recognised asylum seekers. We expect the European Commission to engage actively in dialogue with the Greek authorities and, if necessary, to take the necessary steps to ensure that every country, including Greece, respects the rules. Nor do I fail to enter into dialogue with my Greek colleague. Since sending the letter I just mentioned, I have already spoken twice with Minister Mitarachi, responsible for Asylum and Migration. A first time was in Luxembourg for the JHA. A second time was the day before yesterday in Athens. I have therefore listened to his arguments which partly refer to the country's general economic situation and partly to the right of refugees to travel. The free movement of persons within the EU cannot indeed be affected, but the internal area without internal border control cannot be misused to apply for international protection in other Member States. This is not in line with the principles of the Common European Asylum System. That even puts pressure on the way we have been working in Europe for years. Moreover, these persons are not covered by the traditional Dublin procedures today and cannot be returned with a simple take back request, but a bilateral readmission request should be addressed to the Member State in question. Within the framework of the European Migration Pact, it is also intended to monitor asylum and reception systems much more closely in all Member States in the future. This is also part of the strengthened mandate of the European Asylum Agency. If one asks what the European Asylum Agency will do, this is one of the things. Of course, these solutions must be pursued as far as possible. Greece must fully respect the European right of asylum, including with regard to beneficiaries of international protection. In addition, the adjustments made to the European Migration Pact are also necessary. One of the major changes is that requests from beneficiaries of international protection in one Member State fall within the scope of the Dublin Regulation. It is therefore possible to return via a simplified take-back procedure. In addition, any other proposed measures under the Migration Pact to prevent and sanction secondary movements of asylum seekers from the responsible Member State to other Member States should ensure that asylum seekers and status holders remain in the Member State responsible. Of course, Belgium continues to strongly defend all these necessary regulatory interventions in the negotiations we are conducting. You have also asked a number of questions about figures, and I would ask you to put a written question on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u46	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the comprehensive answer. You are right to point out that the situation at the Greek border is very frustrating. I've established that there myself. I've talked to a lot of people. These are very poignant situations, both for the people who live there, for the border guards and for the many migrants themselves who have not always been able to find themselves in that situation of their own accord. A structural solution must therefore be found urgently. My solution is different from yours. I call for a total halt to illegal migration, to closed borders and to pushbacks. You are in favour of a fairytale European migration pact. I hope it's as beautiful as you sell it, but I'm afraid reality will be different. The reality is that a lot of people who submit applications in Greece travel to North-West Europe. Sometimes this happens in a legal, organised way, but very often it happens in an illegal or informal way. Both forms are very nasty and negative. In the short term, this might be a solution for Greece; it briefly alleviates the pressure, but in the long term it is a bad solution for them. It is a bad solution for us both in the short and long term, if we can even call it a solution, because of course it is not. You say that it cannot be the intention for these people to travel to other European countries to submit a new application. That can't be the intention, but you and I both know that this is what is happening all the time today, it's sharpness and impact. A solution to this problem must be found urgently, and rather yesterday than today. In my view, that solution is far from coming. Then we refer again to the European Migration Pact and the European Commission. The European Commission says that this is a bilateral problem, but you, one of the bilateral partners, refer to the European Commission. Whoever finally solves it, we have guessed. You are also talking about the withdrawal of the status holders. It is indeed a numerical question, but can we not get any indication about it? Or is that a promise we don't get concrete figures from? I hope that we will see more results.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u47	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you once again for making this move, this observation of the ground. I can only encourage you to do more. Before the crisis of the covid, the commission had in mind to go on the ground. Discussions had begun. They will have to be taken over at some point. There were also hearings of Frontex and other agencies. Perhaps this should go back to the agenda of our committee. But given his busy schedule, in my opinion, it'll be for the new year. I would like to address a few things quickly. I have gone through the letter you sent to the Commission with other European ministers. She surprised me. I find that there is sometimes a contradiction between advocating solidarity with the countries of the South and referring responsibility to the countries of the South, even though I understand that this is not the essence of the letter. These countries are already in a very complex situation. Of course, a lot of money has been paid to Greece. But all studies of international cooperation, whether in the context of disasters or migration flows, show that money is not just the solution. I think if the sum had been twice as large, the problem would have been the same. Associations and NGOs on the ground denounce other things than lack of resources and money. Relations with the Greek authorities are not always easy. Relations with agencies whose Frontex are not easy either. That's not much to say. As for the money, we can denounce the fact that it has been misused. However, we must not forget to point out our own responsibility, particularly in a solidarity mechanism. I know you're totally in favour of this mechanism, and you're fighting for it. Nevertheless, I come to the following situation: if, in a letter, you find that there are problems for those recognised in Greece, who do not have access to housing, education or a whole series of basic things, this means that there will be a difficulty until Greece has solved its problems. However, we continue to send people back from Belgium to Greece because they have a status under the Dublin Regulation. For the time being, however, Greece cannot take care of them. This is a contradiction that needs to be considered. It's not your responsibility. You used the word "frustration." I think that is the frustration of many people in Europe. Finally, I will not advise you on vacation readings, but I would like to mention an incredible book by Jean Ziegler, former United Nations rapporteur on the right to food. He's not a bad leftist from an NGO, as I can sometimes hear here. He wrote Lesbos, the shame of Europe. It's a book that you have to take the time to go through, and it explains the situation longer than the 24 hours you were able to spend in the camp in Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u48	Mr Moutquin, in addition, it is true that we had a discussion at the beginning of the legislative period to go to work with the committee. Covid put sticks in the wheels there. I am waiting for the Conference of Presidents and the relaxations in order to be able to take such work trips back with the committee. I fully support you in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u49	Mr President, thank you. We will have to reprosecrate the programme together because a colleague of your party explained that he had been in Greece.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u50	I get it, Mr. Moutquin.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u51	Mr Secretary of State, the people without papers in the Begijnhofkerk and on the campus of the VUB have since begun their fifth week of hunger strike. We have already discussed this in committee, and you always point out, including in the media, that anyone who wants to stay here and regularize his or her situation must submit an individual regularisation dossier. However, in order to submit such a file, the applicant must pay a contribution of EUR 363 to the administrative costs. Moreover, it is still the question of whether the dossier is declared admissible and dealt with and the outcome is very unclear, as it is a very untransparent procedure. In addition, the hunger strikers are currently both physically and mentally very weak, which raises the question of whether they are able to take control of their files and their lives and take legal steps to regularise their situation or to step into a process of voluntary return, because that is, of course, still possible. Earlier, you indicated that you would like to invest in an outreach approach to better inform and guide the sans paper to a sustainable solution, here or in the country of origin. What is the current state of affairs with regard to the hunger strikers? Are you kept informed of their situation? It is interesting to get feedback on this in committee. What solutions do you see for those involved in the short term? Are you considering, for example, a stronger outreach approach in such a way that they receive individual guidance and see an exit from their hopeless situation and can end their hunger strike? Do you consider that the administrative cost of submitting an individual file for regularisation constitutes a threshold? Do you consider lowering the cost of getting out of the current stalemate or do you see other possibilities so that those who are entitled to a regularization, who also get it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u52	Mr Secretary of State, recently 122 civil society organisations, including the Citizen Platform of Ghent and Flanders, the FGTB and Host-Free Network vzw, sent a carte blanche into the world. Earlier they collected more than 25,000 signatures with the petition We Are Belgium Too. In the carte blanche they cover the migration policy of the last ten years, which limited the possibilities of staying legally in Belgium. Furthermore, it is not about protecting the sans papers against COOVID-19 and the general inactivity of the government in relation to the fate of those people. What are you doing to reach out to these organizations and sans papers? You met them twice and listened to them, but that did not result in a concession. What about the illegal price of EUR 366 for the treatment of a regularisation application?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u53	Mr Secretary of State, we have already had an opportunity to talk: I asked you last week in plenary about the dramatic situation of the undocumented, especially those who are conducting a hunger strike, whether at Béguinage, ULB or VUB. The situation is not improving today, nor is it the situation of 150,000 undocumented people. That is what leads me to come back to you today in committee. My colleague, Mrs Daems, mentioned this, various associations gathered around the petition We are Belgium too, which collected 26,666 signatures. It was tabled in Parliament yesterday. This text will now follow the path of the petitions tabled in Parliament, including the hearing of the authors or their representatives within our institution according to the rules that apply in this procedure. Personally, I really hope that these hearings can take place so that we can hear the authors of this petition. Irrespective of this procedure, whether it is successful or not, you know my group's sensitivity to the situation of these 150,000 undocumented people in Belgium. The reason for this is not just a cyclical problem. This is really a structural problem which therefore requires a structural response and a lasting solution. Mr Secretary of State, from a structural point of view, what are the paths you are considering today to get out of this node and bring transparency and clarity to the procedure - criteria, approach to each individual case? What are you going to put forward? How is the path of work or training considered in practice? Should not single permit procedures be re-discussed with the relevant entities in order to give this tool its full place in the search for concrete solutions? As for the situation of the occupations, already envisaged, can you give us an overview of the situation? It's been one more week, one more week, and we're never immune to a dramatic consequence that we all want to avoid. Furthermore, what about the annual report inserted by the Act of 8 May 2019 on the use of your discretionary powers, in particular with regard to the use of "exceptional circumstances"? This document must be able to shed some useful light on our work in order, if necessary, to change the legislation as regards the assessment of these circumstances. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you are asking me what structural measures I intend to take. These structural measures are contained in my general policy note and have already been presented in this committee a few weeks ago. They are currently under discussion at the government level, as you know. These measures offer a structural solution by preventing irregular residence and providing better guidance to those who receive a negative decision. My response time is unfortunately too short to go into details here, but it is a matter of expanding existing legal migration channels, such as the Student Residence Bill, which introduces a year of research for students from third countries who have recently graduated. This has already been discussed and approved by this committee last week. In addition, I would like to ensure that the 9 bis procedure remains an exception procedure, removing certain categories that do not belong in this procedure and placing them in specific residence status, for example for stateless persons, as reflected in the policy note. It's an element that often comes back in the discussions I've had with the undocumented. The need to make it a criterion was mentioned. But we're going further than that. We don't make it a criterion, but we get it out of the 9 bis to make it a specific residence status because we believe that stateless persons have the right to build their lives here. The reality is that there are always people who do not fulfil the conditions of a right of residence and who will therefore not be able to benefit from humanitarian regularization. These persons cannot remain in the territory without a legal stay. The reasons for the negative decision and its consequences must be explained in clear language and these persons must be accompanied towards voluntary return. We all know that if they remain here on a non-regular basis, they risk being exploited in terms of work and housing. That is what must be avoided at all costs. Unfortunately, the hunger strike of people without legal residence in the Beguinage Church, but also on the sites of the VUB and the ULB, is still going on. As I stressed at the last committee meeting, I am naturally touched by this situation. I am very concerned about the medical condition of those concerned and I very much regret that many of them took the decision a few weeks ago to proceed to a hunger strike. I would therefore like to repeat that, and I will continue to do so, calling on everyone to stop that hunger strike. I, and undoubtedly everyone with me, am deeply concerned about the short- and long-term medical impact of such actions. Now, in the short term, there is only one solution, namely to stop the hunger strike. As I have explained before, I am always open to dialogue. I've been in dialogue with people without legal residence and their representatives several times. Even before the start of the actions, I did so. And I will continue to do so, engage in conversation, hear what people's frustrations are. Some of them are justified. To mention the lengthy procedures, when people are waiting for an answer on their 9a. But I'm also very clear in the conversations I'm having. I will continue to ask the party concerned to enter into talks and keep the dialogue open, but I will not negotiate the demands of those involved. This was not the case during the occupation of the sites and it also does not change due to the hunger strike. Even before the actions, I have already recognised certain elements that have been referring to people without legal residence. The processing of applications for humanitarian regularisation takes too long. In order to speed up this process, additional staff will be recruited. The files of persons on hunger strike will be handled individually on the basis of all the elements of the dossier, as will all other requests for humanitarian regularisation. During this policy period, I am generally committed to providing better guidance to those who get a negative decision on their residence status, and the Fedasil Reach Out team is available for those who indicate that they wish to take up orientation. Of course, we have to have these conversations. A fee reflects the administrative costs of processing an application. My services and staff are currently working on an amendment to the Royal Decree on fees, which also takes into account the case law of the Council of State. The new amounts of fees should be based on a more detailed calculation of the effective administrative costs of different categories of applications. Mrs Platteau, I would also like to stress that there is no right of residence on the basis of humanitarian regularisation. The humanitarian regularisation procedure is an exception procedure which is a favor and not a right. Other residence procedures, such as student migration, labour migration, asylum and family reunification, do provide for a right of residence where the person concerned fulfils the conditions. That is the very nature of the exception procedure, which is humanitarian regularization. Mr Rigot, you are asking whether access to the single permit cannot be a practical solution for hunger strikers. I have repeated this several times in this committee: a single permit application can never be made in the event of an irregular stay in Belgium. However, persons who meet the conditions and apply for a single permit correctly have a right of residence. It is an element on which to work, these legal channels are important. Giving access to the single permit from an irregular stay implies regularisation based on employment. This brings us back to the question of a new regularisation campaign based on the employment criterion, as was the case in 2009. I do not think that a new regularisation campaign is the solution. With regard to your question about the activity report under the Aliens Act, my administration will present this report to Parliament before parliamentary leave. It will include information on my discretionary powers as prescribed by law. It will contain qualitative and quantitative information. The exceptional circumstances of Article 9a to which you refer concern only the admissibility of the application and not the assessment on the merits. It is already specified in the same article what it does not cover. Furthermore, the principle of the exceptional circumstances in which the application may be made in Belgium is also reflected in other residence procedures such as family reunification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u55	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, unfortunately this hunger strike is still taking place. You also say you're very concerned. I share your concern, indeed I am concerned. It would be a good thing if these people stopped the strike for the sake of their own health. However, there appears to be something going on. They really are not happy anymore and are apparently convinced that it is the only way at the moment. You refer to your policy proposals for an up-and-coming approach. That's very important. In future, we must ensure that as few people as possible end up in this hopeless situation without legal residence. At the moment, there is an acute situation. We can say that you have a responsibility there, as the current Secretary of State. You say that regularization is not just 9a, that this is an exception procedure, a favor not a right. However, it may be that among the hunger strikers there are people who are entitled to legal residence for other reasons. If it turns out that among the hunger strikers are people who are entitled to legal residence and are just waiting for it, who are not aware of their rights, then that is a problem. We must remove as many thresholds as possible, especially administrative and financial thresholds, so that solutions can be offered to the individual. That is also what the citizens' initiative We are Belgium Too is asking for. Researchers from the VUB also point in a press release in this direction. You refer to the individual guidance. You say Fedasil's Reach Out team is available to these people. It's very good to hear that. I hope that the team will be effective outreach, not the guise of if they want, we will come. No, the whole idea of outreach work is to go to those people to see how they can be individually guided and how those people can be helped out of that hopeless situation and put an end to the hunger strike. That's what I'm calling for. Finally, you are talking about an amendment to the Royal Decree on fees. That's a good idea. I hope, of course, that the financial contribution will then be reduced so that there will no longer be a financial threshold for people to take legal action or file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u56	Mr Secretary of State, you now know our position on people without legal residence. It's a nail we knock on time and time again. We believe that a structural solution is needed to remove workers without legal residence from exploitation and to give rights and dignity to families who have lived here for so many years. This can be done with clear criteria in the law and an independent committee that decides on these matters. This is not only the PVDA, but also the 122 civil society organisations that sent Carte Blanche into the world. That is also what the more than 27,000 citizens who have signed the campaign of We are Belgium too. Mr Secretary of State, yesterday morning there was another impressive meeting for the Beguinage Church. Several civil society organisations, including the trade unions, were present, both French-speaking and Dutch-speaking. They say that the sans papers that have now started a hunger strike there are doing so because they have exhausted all the other means to be heard and the government remains deaf. You note that there is only one solution in the short term, namely to stop the hunger strike. I wish you were right, but that won't change the fate of the hunger strikers. You also indicate that you are open to dialogue and that you have entered into dialogue, but do not want to negotiate their demands. This does not seem to me to be a genuine dialogue, as my colleague Maria Vindevoghel mentioned during the previous question session. There is also the fact that the corona crisis has driven a lot of sans paper into despair. The price, for example, for submitting the regularisation dossier is already unfairly high under normal circumstances. That was also indicated by the Council of State. I therefore really expect you, particularly in view of the current exceptional circumstances, to adjust that fee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u57	Secretary of State, I can hear your answers. First of all, I would like to go back, like colleagues, to the economic situation. If there is one, it is the one, gravissimus, of the approximately 400 people who are currently on a hunger strike. As I told you last week, as much as the way is not the one I can endorse, because it is violent and endangers their own health, as much as their distress proves that they have no other choice. I went there yesterday to see their situation. What comes back is what is also mentioned by my colleagues, namely that today, in the absence of clear criteria, in view of the cost of the procedure which is still prohibitive, some may not realize that they are - or are not - under the conditions for making an application. They don't know. In the absence of clear criteria, today we are in a game where we have to spend 360 euros without knowing what play we play in. What is needed tomorrow, at the structural level, is to know this room, to know its chances and to have the certainty that, in equal situation, treatment is equal. You have to know that when you're going to file your application. We need to know whether it will be admissible and whether it is likely to be successful. This is not the case today, and it must be more transparent. As far as the single permit is concerned, I know the legal framework. However, we are in a context where we cannot deny that in the future we will have to work on prevention, as you said. Of course! But there is one fact today: there are 150,000 undocumented. We are not in prevention but in a de facto situation. They're here, with a statute that allows them to be legal or maybe not. It is therefore also necessary to be able to consider a response, individual case by case, to this specific situation, and to consider this discussion with the interdepartmental conference. We need to be able to open up options and opportunities, because we talked about this situation ten years ago. We're talking about it now. If we don't have a structural response, we'll talk about it again in ten years. No one wants it. What we want today is to have clear criteria. Be convinced, Mr Secretary of State, that in the Socialist Party we also understand the need to apply the return. We are, of course, advocating voluntary return. Indeed, this return is part of a whole process, but one cannot miss the possibility for everyone to submit an application, if it is justified, legitimate, but, for that, one must know the criteria. I therefore urge you to continue in this context, certainly as part of an individual approach. Please maintain the dialogue with the strikers so that tomorrow we do not have a human tragedy among them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u58	This ruling is not about whether or not to apply for asylum, but about the change in status that can be applied for under a temporary status. This issue is completely independent of whether or not to apply for and obtain international protection. An important element of this statement is the confirmation that anyone, regardless of the way in which he or she entered the country, can apply for and receive protection. I don't think that's the proposal you're making. For the rest, I refer to what I said earlier, in an answer to a previous question, about the externalisation of asylum and its legal acceptability, its feasibility and morality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u59	I am very disappointed that no alternatives are being sought to the current model of illegal migration. I think I still need to exercise some patience before everyone realizes that the European model has failed and that the Pact will not come into the house much. I'm very curious about your alternatives. It's just too bad we have to wait to discuss them until you've worked them out with your cabinet and the government. That wouldn't have been up to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u60	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, thank you for your question, which was put yesterday evening and this morning in a different way to what she is now getting. After all, the letter you are talking about did not reach my cabinet until around noon. It is therefore difficult to give a comprehensive answer to this at this stage. Of course, I was already aware of the problem. My cabinet has heard from some municipalities in the region and from the Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities that there has long been a demand for a solution for Union citizens who do not register with the municipality or who do not register. So we have to find that solution. Well, there's been a mistake in your fourth question. You ask why there are no more administrative penalties. The negation 'no longer' assumes that fines would have been issued in the past, but that did not happen. I heard from my administration that my predecessors were also looking for a solution, but unfortunately they have not found it. I therefore intend to try to ensure, contrary to what has unfortunately not happened in the past, a draft royal decision and to submit it to the Council of Ministers. The current regulations relating to the short stay will also be reviewed in the framework of the Smart Borders Package. I will make the necessary proposals in good time. I am therefore very pleased that you are asking the question of a problem which we have been dragging along for too long. It is good that you mention this and that you do so as a critical Member and make it clear that we have been dragging it along for too long. I am trying to do it and I hope I have answered the letter against the next committee session.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u61	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. I will certainly come back to this when these plans are more concrete. I had hoped you could say something about this today, but that is not yet the case. I also understand that you only received that letter today and you have not yet had a chance to look at it. I'll definitely come back to this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, I refer to a newspaper article of 15 June 2021 in Het Parool entitled: "Inspection: worrying situation in azc's by troublesome asylum seekers'. In the Netherlands that is a whole issue. The Dutch Ministry of Justice and Security carries out screenings and inspection audits in asylum centres and a lot has emerged. This is now the subject of a heated debate in the Dutch House of Representatives. I'm sure you'll follow that. In 2020, there was also a sharp increase in the number of violent incidents in our asylum centres to almost 900, which is really a lot. We learn from the answer to a parliamentary question from MP Darya Safai that there are significantly more fights, from 50 in 2019 to 131 in 2020, which is still 2 or 3 fights a week. Also verbal aggression and suicide are rising. Last year 48 asylum seekers attempted suicide, so every week a suicide attempt in our asylum centres. Those are heavy numbers, and I was really shocked when I read that. Are you in favour of a form of internal inspection as in the Netherlands? Are you in favour of separate asylum centres for troublemakers? The previous legislature was appointed a federal police liaison officer at Fedasil. Is that liaison officer still there? What is his or her task package? What are the findings regarding troublesome asylum seekers? We also worked out a cooperation agreement between the local police and each asylum centre. Are these agreements signed and complied with? Can you give us the evaluation and give us the experience of the local police forces with regard to cooperation with those responsible for asylum centres? In which municipalities or cities was the agreement not signed? What's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u63	Mr Francken, I think it is important to look at the nature of incidents. We see that they sometimes arise from psychological problems or addiction problems. In this case, it is important, first of all, to refer to specialized guidance with possible inclusion in an institution. Sometimes it is less serious and one-off incidents. Especially when the perpetrator is a minor, recovery-oriented work is used in the reception centres to cool the situation and to re-enhance relations, if these are less serious incidents. However, sometimes these are people who take a downright antisocial attitude and cause serious nuisance in the reception centres with a major impact on the other residents and staff. In order to respond appropriately, a system of sanctions has been developed. Sanctions, such as disciplinary transfer and temporary or even definitive exclusion from reception, have been registered in the Reception Act. Fedasil is also currently examining the possibility of creating separate reception centres for these people. Taking over the internal inspection, as in the Netherlands, does not seem obvious to me, because the organisational structures are completely different. You also mentioned in your question that a liaison officer of the integrated police is employed at Fedasil. The agreement relating to the posting of the liaison officer shall be renewed annually. The task package shall include, inter alia, the following elements: monitoring the application of the modalities of the Cooperation Agreement, such as the registration of visitors and the use of an incident reporting procedure, visits to reception centres and local police areas to identify potential problems and to seek solutions, participation in the Asylum and Migration Working Group at OCAD in the framework of the Radicalism Plan and advising Fedasil in the event of major incidents and the identification of certain trends. Both the police liaison officer and the radicalism expert at Fedasil are currently taking part in the consultations between the competent authorities to identify the problem of nuisances and to provide them with the necessary solutions and measures as soon as possible. The cooperation agreements drawn up in the past are still in force. They were closed between every shelter and the local police area. Where necessary, additional modalities were introduced at the request of the local police or after evaluation. In the recent survey I had carried out with the mayors with a reception centre on their territory, the existing cooperation between the reception centres and the local police zones was considered positive or very positive. With this survey we found out what lives on the local level and how we can better involve the local level. Finally, I would like to say that my administration, Fedasil and I are in contact with the Dutch colleagues to discuss which approach is best for the problem and which good practices can be shared.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u64	Mr Secretary of State, I understand that you are seriously working on this and that there may be new initiatives in the pipeline, but I also read in the Netherlands that the follow-up study shows that the troublemakers are hardly correctable. This only works in special shelters. The problem is mainly caused by young men from Morocco, Algeria, Libya and Tunisia. These countries are classified as safe, which means that the chances of asylum are low, even if the inspection notes that they are not being prosecuted in their country for their beliefs or political beliefs. Separate shelters for nuisances? Yes, it seems interesting to me that you should contact the Dutch further. I'll certainly do the same. I think we should take a look at how they deal with it there. I do notice that there are a lot of persistent problems. There's been a lot of recidivism. You can also see that permanent exclusion is almost never applied. I entered it. Many were against it and said that these people would be walking the streets, would that be better? I was rather stubborn in that and introduced it anyway, but now it is almost never applied, only once or so last year. There were 131 riots in asylum centres, and there was only one definitive exclusion. However, there were many temporary exclusions and other sanctions. It is in itself a good thing that you say that we need to look at this again. I'll follow that up. The vast majority of asylum seekers behave very well, very well, let it be said, but this hard core causes a lot of problems, including image problems. Of course, everyone knows that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u65	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have already asked a question about this. Last week we learned that an identification mission was taking place to identify a number of Belgian IS women and their children with a view to repatriation. How many brides and children are we talking about? How many humanitarian visas will you have to deliver for children who are not already of Belgian nationality? That's the whole discussion. How many full orphans are in here? Or is it always with the mothers around? Please explain more about the return programme, which is very controversial in this country. You know it lives in public opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u66	Mr President, Mr Francken, as you know, access to the territory or the repatriation of Belgians is not my responsibility. I received a number of questions in writing about the decisions of the National Security Council, which you put best to my competent colleagues in the government. The National Security Council has indeed decided that our country will repatriate a number of persons from Syria and Iraq. These are Belgian children, under the age of 12. Cases of older children or their Belgian mothers will be dealt with on a case-by-case basis on the basis of an in-depth threat analysis by the intelligence and security services. As I said, it is about women of Belgian nationality and the children of Belgians. The Foreign Affairs Office is not competent for Belgian nationals. The intervention of the Foreign Affairs Office may be necessary for children of Belgian parents who, formally speaking, do not yet have Belgian nationality because they have not yet been registered in our country. In such cases, a travel document may be necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u67	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, that was just my question, it was about that category. So you have not yet clarified how many visas or travel documents will be delivered in this way. I will then re-apply my question. I had already understood that the intention was to put repatriation somewhere in the next few days or weeks. I assume that you will soon be contacted by the Foreign Office, so that these documents can be prepared so that they do so. I understand that I can very clearly conclude that this has not been done so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u68	Mr Secretary of State, there is a humanitarian air bridge for Afghan interpreters and fixers, after the NATO summit in Brussels on Monday. Belgium would also take part. Do you know how many interpreters and fixers we're talking about? I assume it's about humanitarian visas and travel documents you have to deliver, because of course it's not about Belgians. What are the criteria? How many visas will be issued? What do you think of the return program?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u69	Mr Francken, as I explained at the last committee meeting, Belgium also wants to assume its responsibility. These interpreters have helped our troops and we cannot, of course, leave them to their fate. They have put their security at risk for our soldiers who have been in Afghanistan for years. It is the logic of things that we guarantee the safety of those people. A procedure has therefore been agreed to facilitate the submission of humanitarian visas. To this end, a number of criteria are taken into account: the duration of the period during which someone worked for the Belgian army, the merit of the Belgian army and the existence of a threat to the person concerned and his family. As the granting of humanitarian visas falls within my discretion, I will examine each case thoroughly. As usual, the files will also be subject to safeguards by the services concerned. An application was currently submitted and approved by one family. I cannot yet estimate how many applications will follow. That will depend on the criteria that have been laid down, but I am very pleased that we are able to guarantee the safety of people who have long and well assisted our soldiers in Afghanistan who have had to do very difficult work there. It is a logical consequence that we are now doing so in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u70	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. I agree. It's about one family. How many people is this family? Is that four or five people? How many kids are we talking about? Are they here yet or are they still in Afghanistan? Do you have any more information about this? Or aren't you aware of that? It's about one family?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u71	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u72	The Afghanistan file is very heavy. Twenty years after the terrorist attacks in the United States, it has now been decided to finalize the withdrawal of troops and the Belgian troops have already left Afghanistan. But there is some discussion about this, because there is a fear that the Taliban will take the area again, starting with the countryside and then the cities, and then finally taking power again in Kabul. If Kabul falls, that means that the Taliban are back in power, after twenty years of being ruled by Western forces. It will inevitably go the wrong way again with education for girls, with women's rights, with listening to music and you name it. Sharia will once again be the benchmark and international terrorism will flourish. There's a good chance it's going that way. I hope not, but I'm afraid so. If that happens, more Afghans will flee and the migration flow will increase. These people will then, unlike today, also be recognised as refugees. Only one third of Afghan asylum seekers are now recognised. If the Taliban takes over the country tomorrow, as well as any Afghan asylum seeker will be recognised. We are in this country with a large Afghan community and I am concerned about that. There's gonna be a lot of them. By the way, since the announcement of the military withdrawal by US President Biden, Afghanistan has been the country from which most asylum applications come for three months in a row in Belgium. What do you think of this? How many percent of Afghan asylum seekers are recognised? What's the average profile of the Afghan asylum seeker? Is it a matter of men? What age? Is that someone from Kabul, from Kandahar or from another city or region? What measures do you take with regard to the Afghans? Will you launch a distress campaign? Or aren't you planning on doing that at all? Have you already raised the issue in domestic, European or other bodies?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u73	Mr Francken, I was looking critically at the fact that, in my view, Afghanistan has not only scored very high in terms of the number of asylum applications over the last three months, but also, even for years. Afghanistan is even the first country of origin for applications for international protection. Belgium is not the only country with a high number of requests from Afghanistan. In many other Member States, too, Afghanistan is either the most important country of origin or a very important country of origin for asylum applications. By the way, in 2020, Afghanistan was the second most important country of origin of applicants throughout the EU+. This is due to many factors, including a lack of perspective and uncertainty due to the departure of foreign troops. Many Afghans have already left and reside in countries such as Pakistan, Iran or Turkey, where their situation is also deteriorating. The rate of recognition for Afghans in 2020 was 60.74 % for substantive decisions and 32.91 % for all final decisions, including inadmissibility decisions. The figures are similar in 2021, 66,67 % and 34.3 %. The profiles of Afghan applicants are diverse. Some call for specific reasons, including lgbt identity or Taliban threat. Many call for the general security situation. The applicants come from different regions, mostly from the Nangarhar region. In Belgium there are relatively many requests from Afghan unaccompanied minors, a problem which has already been discussed several times in committee. I share your concern about the consequences of the withdrawal from Afghanistan. For the time being, it remains a question mark, because three months is too short to be able to assess it. With my services, I am looking at the possibilities of combating secondary migration within the EU. The situation of the Afghan unaccompanied minors is also being closely monitored. Recently, the EMN also launched an ad hoc survey with the other EU Member States on the target group of unaccompanied minors at my request. The situation in Afghanistan and the possible impact on asylum and migration flows are closely monitored by the European Commission, the European External Action Service and the relevant European Agencies and are also discussed with the Member States in European fora. For example, the migration dimension was addressed in the debate on Afghanistan at the latest meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers on 10 May. During the meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 8 June, at lunch, in which I myself participated, the challenges along the main migration routes were discussed. The High-level Working Group on Asylum and Migration discussed Afghanistan specifically on 28 May and Belgium highlighted the challenges of asylum, unaccompanied minors and return. The Migration Blueprint established by the Commission together with the Member States as part of the new Migration Pact provides for specific monitoring of migratory flows from Afghanistan and its impact on the different Member States. We need to take an effective look at the consequences of the withdrawal. I follow that closely and, if necessary, we need to be able to take additional steps to inform people properly and to reduce secondary migration as much as possible. This has an impact on many European countries, not least on Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u74	Mr Secretary of State, it is an important issue. I think we're pretty much on the same page. This really needs to be at the top of the European agenda. After Portugal, Slovenia will observe the Presidency and that country is on the migration route, they have a lot of Afghan flow. We certainly need to address this in the coming months. I do not expect the Taliban to take Kabul this year, because the Afghan army is now much stronger than in 2000. Within NATO, there is a great deal of concern about this. We must prepare ourselves well and, within the framework of the European Presidency of Slovenia, this should become a priority. I'll follow this up with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u75	Debates of the European Parliament 55019070C is repealed for reasons already stated. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Daems' 55019075C and 55019079C have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u76	Mr President, Mr Segers, the first reception of unaccompanied minors takes place at the observation and orientation centres in Fedasil. These are open reception structures that offer adapted guidance and framework. Unaccompanied minors who are potentially victims of human trafficking or smuggling often require more supportive and protective guidance and framing. It is offered by organisations such as those to which you refer, namely Esperanto. This is done to minimise the risk of disappearance. The Fedasil reception centres also contact specialised centres for indications of trafficking in human beings or trafficking in human beings. We do know that for the Vietnamese minors found, the risk of disappearance is very high. The Voogdij service contacted the reception centre in Steenokkerzeel with the request for reception for the six minors because there were no available shelters at Esperanto. We agree that it is better to catch them in Steenokkerzeel than not to catch them at all, but we also agree on where they are best received. The shelter and the Voogdij Service were aware of the vulnerability of these minors. The reception centre certainly takes this into account in the supervision of these minors. For your questions on the reception capacity for unaccompanied minors who are potentially victims of trafficking in human beings or smuggling, please refer to the Minister of Justice and the Communities, who are responsible for youth aid. I am, of course, in favour of a reception as adapted as possible for minors. Any disappearance of a minor we register shows that we can do even better. With the Disappearances Working Group, we have been able to identify many bottlenecks and possible solutions. I will also continue to work on the prevention of disappearances from shelters. I am pleased that you are right to refer to Esperanto, where the solution lies for a large part.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic520x.u77	Mr Secretary of State, I will indeed ask the Minister of Justice again next week or at the next opportunity. I'm definitely not letting go of the theme.
