ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u1	Mr President, Minister, my questions are perfectly in line with the arrangements for the work that have already been discussed, and the subject has already been discussed. We have asked for the climate minister to be included in these discussions, because in the end we have been pushed into the facts by these sad events as a society. Climate warming has also shown in our country what the new reality is. For those who are calling today that we must ensure that this never happens again, I have bad news, because it will of course happen again. In the current situation, we as a society have to adapt and prevent us from doing so. We do that on many levels. For example, in the strategic vision climate warming was discussed alongside cybersecurity as one of the major new threats. We will therefore also have to adapt in our own country. The consequences of this climate disaster were particularly sad. There are 31 deaths to be regretted and there is a lot of material damage. Defence has played an important role at the time of the disaster itself and afterwards. That's what my questions are about. At a certain point, it was established that the Defence helicopter could not take immediate action for security reasons. This raises the question of whether we should invest in other things in the future, in case such situations still arise. With the purchase of other equipment, it might be possible for the Defence Department to intervene in the future. Madam Secretary, I'd like to get an overview of the defense's efforts so far. Do you believe that the DOD is sufficiently armed to assist in such climate disasters? Are you considering investing in other things in order to be able to intervene in the future? I also put a question about the meal delivery. I went to help with the kids myself for a day, and that's how I saw how the Defense Department was doing on the premises. That's what I've been talking to people on the ground about. Madam Secretary, how do you evaluate the meal delivery? What is the current situation on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u2	Mr President, Madam Minister, as Mr Verduickt has just said, the catastrophic and dramatic floods that occurred last July have given us an overview of what we must expect, more repeatedly and more importantly, in the coming years as a result of climate change. We will have an opportunity to talk more specifically about the floods in the coming weeks. My question today is more about the future. Indeed, as I said, these out-of-standard phenomena will become less and less so over the years, and we must prepare for them. In fact, in the report of the experts you set up to update Defence's strategic vision, global warming was almost every page as a threat that must be taken into account. So here are a few questions that complement a written question that I asked you but that may be drowned in the work that we are going to do in the joint committee. As part of a growing focus on aid to the population, Defence today does not seem to be properly equipped to deal with such situations. Like Mr. Verduyckt, I wonder what equipment Defence is going to provide to carry out this mission. As part of its strategic vision, will the fight against the effects of climate change, both here and abroad, be given full weight? In what way? Would it not be a specialisation of Defence to develop as quickly as possible? Is there a plan within Defence to secure the most sensitive sites, as well as energy and food supplies in the event of chain disasters? Is a collapse of society seriously envisaged as the presagent of certain specialists who have recently published a large number of essays and books on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in mid-July we experienced floods as we had not known for a long time. I'm talking about it with some kind of experience since my commune was hit for the third time. Apart from Kattrin Jadin, who is an alderman in Eupen who has been touched and had to act as such, I am the only mayor present in this room who had to coordinate a team to help thousands of disaster victims in my commune. Fortunately, the violence of the waves has not caused the same abominable situation as in the communes of Vesdre, Ourthe and other rivers or streams transformed into torrents. Nevertheless, I had to manage people to evacuate, buildings to close and people without electricity for a week. Fortunately, we had the army facing this chaos! But the army arrived with derisory means! One can wonder why, Madam Minister! Certainly, because Minister Vandeput has never considered, in fact or in his strategic vision, aid to the nation as a structural element of his defence policy. These soldiers came, because they were requisitioned by mayors or by the governor to help, to clear, pump, evacuate people, supply sandbags, country beds, housing, clean up and clean up. For my group, assistance missions to the nation have always been essential and you have re-incorporated it into your strategic vision. The facts make you right, contrary to what some might claim. Therefore, Madam Minister, what are the human and material means deployed (or to be deployed) by the army in the communes that have been affected by the floods? For the future, and particularly in the context of the much-needed updating of the strategic vision, what place do you want to give to these missions of assistance to the nation? Is there any reflection within the government to strengthen synergies with the relevant civilian authorities in order to better deal with such disasters in the future, including in terms of geographical coverage of the whole country and unity of command? At European level, is such a reflection under way in the face of cross-border disasters, for example, and in the face of climate change, because tomorrow Europe will have to face new challenges, including this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u4	Minister, during the floods in the eastern part of the country, Defence was mobilized to help the population. This assistance has proved difficult to implement in several places and at different times. As Lieutenant-General Thys explained, the means available within the Defence to intervene with the public have been the victims of successive budget cuts and the transfer of certain tasks to external providers. One of the most notable examples since 2018 is the use of a private provider, Janson Bridging, to set up mobile bridges, while the Defence had previously had its own mobile bridges. Another example is the difficulties encountered by the army in deploying canteens for the victims, since the military cooks were replaced by private service providers. Purchases of equipment by the army focused on the purchase of equipment for external operations, such as the F-35. However, as recent events show, global warming tends to make the likelihood of natural disasters more significant. Assistance to the population must therefore be one of the main priorities and missions of the Defence, which implies a major change in the direction of the latter. Minister, you have announced that you want to change the situation. So, what concrete steps do you intend to take to strengthen the capacity of the Defence people to respond to natural disasters? What is the extent of recourse to external providers? Do you intend to remedy this practice? Finally, do you intend to question some of the investments planned for the purchase of equipment for external interventions (e.g. the F-35) to allocate them to the capacity to assist the population?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u5	I know Mr Francken is on his way, but he's not here for a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we are in a topical debate, I would like to take the floor here. My colleague Lacroix said so; it is a fairly strong and difficult experience. This is something that one will never forget in his life, including when one has local political responsibilities, responsibilities that, in such situations, one would prefer not to have but to assume, which many mayors have done. They have all my sympathy. I realize that these are very difficult decisions that have had to be made. I hope we get back to it. Indeed, several weeks ago, I asked for a joint ad minimum committee to be set up so that the various responsibilities, also at the federal level, can be supported a little. You have to say it. I think it is necessary and much more effective to do so in a more coordinated way than in a committee by committee. We are able to do so for other subjects. I do not see why we could not do so for this disaster of a national scale and without precedent for a long time. Minister, I would like to thank our military for the help they have given us, which is very much appreciated in many municipalities. However, despite my sympathy for the work done, I wonder, with great humility, how we could have better coordinated a faster presence of our military on the ground. Many told me: "Kattrin, we want to come. We don't know how to come. We haven't received the necessary authorizations or orders." How can we organize this so that in future, this help they can provide is the fastest and most appropriate in these circumstances, even if I wish that we no longer have to undergo this type of experience. I don't think I'm the only one.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u7	Mr President, I would also like to make a point in this topical debate. They were horrible floods, with unseen human suffering. I believe that it is indeed important to analyse what has happened, how it has been prepared, and how it has dealt with this crisis. I must say, however, that I was very annoyed by the fact that the press and public opinion were very quickly more involved in the debate on the use of defence. Suddenly, the debate was about that. It wasn't about the crisis management budget, it wasn't about Civil Protection or the relief services. No, the debate was about Defense. Defense and communication is not always a successful mix. Maybe the DOD called it in himself, but this time the communication was very good, with multiple updates a day to show how the military were doing aid. I'm not against defense being deployed. On the contrary. I believe that the DOD should play a role in these kinds of crises. But it's not a core mission of the Defense Department. Mr Lacroix, I do not agree with you in this respect. Defence has other key tasks that are very important and that we should perhaps pay more attention to. I have just one question, Madam Secretary. How do you see the future? You have announced that a 200 soldiers will remain in the disaster area indefinitely. I read, among other things, that the distribution of food, the soup kitchens, etc., is transferred to a private company. What are you actually planning to do about the deployment of these two hundred soldiers, now, tomorrow, next week, next month, for that indefinite period? We must avoid creating a new OVG of indefinite duration for our armed forces.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u8	Minister, we did indeed experience the most deadly natural disaster in the country's history in mid-July. I hear the debate that perhaps fewer resources should be devoted to external operations. I mean the PTB in relation to the operations here in Belgium. As we saw at our previous meeting, it was certainly not the scale of our operations that limited our capabilities here in Belgium. Of course I welcome all the efforts of those who have deployed, but at the same time it is true that we must be on the right side. There was a feeling of a certain lack of proactivity, anticipation in any case, difficulties of coordination, difficulties of means, etc. I think we cannot save money by looking lucidly at what has been a problem. I would like to have your analysis on this first in terms of speed of reaction. I have the impression that we could have saved at least one to two days in terms of speed of reaction. However, we know that the first hours in a natural disaster are essential. I'd even say the first few minutes. We know that's where we save lives. What happened? What was the chain of instructions? Was there a reaction from the Defence itself? Was she asked? By whom? I think these are important questions to be clarified. What were the first deployments? For what purpose? I think it is important that we look at this properly. I've worked a lot on natural disasters in another life. Again, it is very important that we decrypt this. I do not know whether this analysis is under way, whether this type of information will be available, but it is indeed important that we understand well what the alerts, procedures, means have been put in place, what the difficulties of coordination have been. That will be the essence of my questions. What lessons do you learn from this analysis for the future, for the role of Defence in the event of natural disasters in relation to other bodies (civil protection, firefighters, Red Cross and a range of other operators that have deployed)? What do you think would be the lessons to be learned? On the basis of this experience, what will be the means and role of Defence in the event of a natural disaster? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u9	On behalf of the N-VA Group, I would like to pay tribute to the military. They have done their job properly, despite all the criticism and questions where they were. That criticism was, by the way, unjustified. They were indeed present on the premises. Which units were more specifically active on the premises? Can you give us an overview of the operation? Were there any requests for assistance in the last few weeks? I read in the newspaper today that the assignment will be extended indefinitely, instead of being terminated on 9 October. I would have preferred to have heard that information here in Parliament. You know you'll get questions here about the subject, but you'd rather give the scoop to the newspaper. Or was the information leaked? Anyway, if you give that information here in Parliament, the newspapers can pick it up. MEPs should also be able to do their work and be the first to be informed of policy in this area. They shouldn't read it in the paper. At least I think so. The units were involved not only in evacuations but also in cleaning up and providing basic facilities to affected citizens. Do you have a cost estimate for the use of all these resources? Is Defence's budget used for this purpose and is it matched by the general budget? If so, how many? Does the defence staff have any idea what the possible consequences might be for other missions? If our soldiers have to stay there for a long time, it will have an influence somewhere. Mr Lacroix keeps talking about helping the nation. Same with the debate on civil protection. There's no saving on that budget. Look it up. Under Flemish Prime Minister Jambon, for the period 2014-2014, no euro has gone off that budget. Civil Protection has been restructured, that's right. There is no saving on helping the nation either. It may not be further developed either, but it is not true that it has been saved. Defence generally had to do a few things. There has also been investment in equipment and ambitious targets have been set. I regret these one-sided negative statements, but please continue. The field kitchen in Chaudfontaine has now been outsourced to the Croix-Rouge. That was a total disaster. On Monday the Croix-Rouge was active there for the first time again. It didn't really go down very well. Someone who was there said, "Commence bien. First day of non-military service. The victims, those who came after 12:30 p.m., will not have lunch. Out. It promises. [[."]] This tweet referred to Mr Bacquelaine, mayor of Chaudfontaine, but they might as well have referred to you. After all, you are also competent. That doesn't go well there again. I've seen Delimeal's meals. It's not much. I've also seen what the Croix-Rouge has presented to those people. That's just outrageous. The power supply of the Defense Department is of a much higher quality. What exactly is going to happen there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, during the acute crisis phase from 14 to 17 July, our soldiers were deployed, supplemented by the necessary means to provide direct assistance to the people in need. These include boats, pumps, trucks, sandbags and field beds. In addition, an NH90 helicopter has flown out several times for rescue operations. As of July 17th, the reconstruction phase began, focusing more on genius witnesses and helicopters for storing hard-to-reach car wrecks and all kinds of washed-up materials. From 19 July mobile showers were installed and later also field kitchens. During August, with the establishment of the federal support cell, Defence was asked to also vouch for the organisation of food aid through a food coordination center. During the initial period of military presence with field kitchens, the food was prepared with ingredients supplied by volunteers. From the end of July to the present day the food was supplied by the military chain, so that safe and continuous food supplies could remain assured. The costs of meals, staff and equipment were initially financed by the Defence Department. In total, we are talking about 64.885 meals. In addition to Defense's meals, the Red Cross also provided several food trucks, 226 962 meals. Between 15 August and 15 September, the federal government also signed a contract with the company Delimeal for the preparation of meals. This last contract also accounted for 134,770 meals. Since 16 September there has been a new contract for the preparation of meals, so there is sufficient supply and the capacity of Defence can be gradually reduced. Part of our capacity is on standby to be able to switch quickly in case of problems. Defence is still being used to clear and dispose of the waste on the rivers Vesdre, Hoegne and Ourthe. Civilian companies' resources are being used for private reconstruction. There are therefore insufficient civilian resources to clean up riverbeds. This is why the Service Publique de Wallonie entrusted this mission to the Defense Department through the federal support cell. A total of over 11,000 man-days were already provided by the Defense for flood relief, or an average of 182 soldiers per day, with a peak of 374 soldiers deployed in one day. To date, there is no operational impact on our other assignments. As activities in the field are constantly evolving, there is no clear cost estimate of the deployment. Defence no longer has its own capacity to build temporary bridges that can serve as a full alternative to the damaged infrastructure. It can do so in cooperation with civil companies. In the flood crisis, the first actions were coordinated at provincial level. Defence shall be represented at the provincial crisis centre by the provincial commander, who may initiate a number of actions at his level in case of emergency. However, the federal phase was rapidly proclaimed, with requests from the province to the Defence Staff escalate through the National Crisis Centre. All actions requested within the capabilities of the Defense Department were granted. Rescue operations with helicopters above land can indeed be subject to obstacles. The winging capacity on NH90 is therefore regularly trained, including precision exercises. The aim is to be able to carry out the contract with the necessary precision in the event of obstacles, provided, of course, that the necessary safety measures are taken. In particular, horizontal and vertical visibility plays a very important role. The Council of Ministers of 23 July 2021 confirmed the core tasks of Belgian Defence, namely collective defence, collective security and protection of Belgian nationals abroad. In addition, regardless of the crisis, defence will contribute to security in the broad sense of the word of the people on national territory. To this end, it shall make available its resources to support the responsible services when available. Through the principles of updating the strategic vision, the government therefore states that Defence must, regardless of the crisis, make its available capabilities available to crisis management in the national territory as it is in the context of assistance to the nation in the event of a natural disaster. It is clear that Defence no longer has sufficient dual capabilities, which are useful for expeditionary missions abroad as well as for crisis management in the national territory, to carry out its missions according to the expectations of the population. This imbalance, which follows the choices made during the writing of the 2016 strategic vision, will be the subject of an in-depth reflection as part of the updating of the strategic vision. In terms of procedures, the Defence has internal guidelines to follow in the event of requests for support by the competent authorities in major incidents, for example in the case of internal security risks or disasters in the national territory. As demonstrated in recent floods, these guidelines allow Defence, within its capabilities, to respond to such requests for support. Since the security of sensitive sites is the responsibility of the Inland FPS, I would refer you to my colleague responsible in this area. The most extreme incidents will always require a comprehensive approach. Strengthening the resilience of infrastructure, ecosystems and society in general is also being monitored within the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for the overview. As for the climate disaster, that day I was in Heppenert, where the real edge was, where the water was literally up to the edge of the thigh-mileage. The difference with the crisis situation in Wallonia is that in recent years there has been considerable investment in water space. That was also possible, of course, something that is much more difficult in other regions. We're gonna have to do mitigation. We will have to take care of this, we will have to live with it, and we will have to prepare ourselves by taking structural measures. We won't be able to get out of that. But if it doesn't work out, we're gonna have to be ready with good equipment and manpower. Defence has absolutely a role to play in these matters, as does Civil Protection. Mr Francken spoke about restructuring. Those people were brought together in Brasschaat and they were so pleased with the restructuring that they did not even participate in the national defilé at the time. They're with half the staff today. We need manpower. Unfortunately, this kind of thing is still going to happen. If there is 100 to 150 liters of water per square metre, in any region of Belgium, then that is misery and unfortunately we will see it in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u12	Thank you, Madam Minister. First of all, I would like to thank the Defence and the military who have deployed. I had the opportunity to do so in Pepinster and Verviers in August with some of them. I really want to thank them for this, and also to express my sympathy to our colleagues in the committee who have been affected and who have nevertheless done a remarkable job. We must stress that. We must realize that what is happening will not be an isolated phenomenon. What is happening is the direct consequences of global warming and, to some, it will happen again and more and more in our territory and our people. The State and the authorities have an extremely important responsibility to absorb these shocks at best in the future. We know that, even if we make every effort to get into the nails of the Paris Agreement, that will not be enough. We aim to increase the temperature between 1.5 and 2°C. Even if we do, the consequences for natural disasters will be significant. We know that. We must therefore prepare ourselves as best we can to cope with this increase. Defence clearly has a role to play, whether on our own territory or in support of other countries affected by natural disasters. As we will need Defence, it must be ready for this and it seems that this is not always the case. There is not only an opportunity but also a need for specialization, in partnership with European countries. I hear that there are thoughts, in particular, on the material in updating the strategic vision. That is a good thing, which is in the right direction, and I hope that we can continue to work in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u13	Thank you, minister, for the factual elements you brought. I will give some thought as a reply. I have a unilateral view of things, says a colleague. No. I am a trained historian and I am committed to the facts. In your predecessor's strategic vision, assistance to the nation no longer appeared. It has reduced the means for the medical component which, in the long run, should no longer be a component as such. He outsourced many services, including meals, via Sodexo. I guess we should have requisitioned Sodexo to go and provide meals to the victims. Your predecessor even had the plan to privatize search and rescue missions in the North Sea. You can imagine the point to which we were going, in the only budgetary will to make savings foolishly and linearly, without worrying about the general interest and the interests of the nation in the broad sense. Should assistance to the nation be taken into account in the strategic vision? Of course I do. On this point I disagree with my colleague Pillen. In fact, the recommendations contained in the document submitted by the experts to us in May include the five Defence priority missions. Among these are aid to Belgian society, aid to the Nation. Why? Because aid to the Nation is a way of defending Belgium's vital and strategic interests. If the floods had been more catastrophic, had destroyed the port of Liège, for example, and had had consequences on the Tihange power plant or others, without aid to the nation built, the country is on its knees! He's on his knees and can be the prey of any attack. So, of course, yes, assistance to the Nation must be part of the core missions of Defence. Finally, Mr President, I agree with Mr Ecolo. Global warming will only strengthen the recurrence of these events. So we're going to have to deal with systemic shocks and, to deal with and respond to systemic shocks, we need a vision that embraces and responds to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u14	Mr President, many things have been said. This kind of event will happen again, especially with the evolution of climate change. It's not an exceptional element. Unfortunately, this is something we will face in the future. I therefore believe that the question of aid to the Nation should be a priority. What has been lacking in practice is the means and a clear vision. In these terms, it is necessary to review the logic that has been made so far and to ensure that aid to the Nation becomes a priority in a vision in which we will be confronted with such disasters. The necessary resources must be put in place and this logic of using the private sector for certain sectors must be abandoned. We can say what we want, what we're talking about economy, it doesn't work. These are savings that cost us much more in the future. So we need to see that vision again. Assistance to the Nation must be under public control with the necessary means. We must abandon this purely budgetary vision which does not meet the needs of people and the ground. Otherwise, we will face the same difficulties in the future. If we do not learn from what happened in July, the mission of aid to the Nation will be doomed to failure. We must review the whole policy that has been carried out so far and put the necessary resources instead of wasting billions on it, for futile and useless things.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u15	If I may, Mr. Chair, I will take the floor very briefly to thank the minister for the answers. Madam, like me, you have made the observation that in the future we could organize things a little better. It's healthy to be able to say it. Indeed, we are also here to put in place action plans, so that from now on, the possible aid, the aid appreciated, the effective aid can be even faster, in a future that I do not wish to be too close, even if we should be sufficiently prepared.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u16	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear you're actually going to incorporate the lessons of the past. It would therefore be interesting to share as much as possible with Parliament - I do not know what form this will take - an evaluation report, an audit, but in any case it would be important for us to draw lessons, in terms of anticipation, proactivity, coordination, means, etc. This is important for the future, because we could have done better, it seems rather obvious! It is not a question of pointing to the Defence, but of checking all our forces (Defence, Civil Protection, Fire Department, Red Cross, etc.) and how they can best be mobilized in this type of disaster that could occur more frequently.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u17	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. The process that the predecessor is making will be further discussed in the light of the new strategic vision. Help to the nation, there is much to be said about that. Madam Secretary, I asked what budget Defence has spent so far. I did not hear an answer to that question. I assume that this question will be answered, so that we have an estimate of the costs of defence so far. I believe that we can have that information. I can only agree that we should be happy that we can count on defence. When the need is greatest, the Defense Department is always ready again. That can only generate respect and gratitude, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u18	Those words of thanks have also been expressed by several other colleagues, and I think that they can be expressed on behalf of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u19	Madam Minister, now that the majority of the adult population has already received their first or even second shot, it is also clear which population group will continue to refuse the vaccine. For Defence as an employer, achieving the greatest possible group immunity, especially for foreign operations, is very important, especially given the nature of the missions, the impossibility of social distancing in some tasks and the challenges of medical support abroad. As it is impossible to oblige individuals to be vaccinated, the Ministry of Defence considered including vaccination in the assessment of the operational suitability of a military. This may lead to refusal of participation in foreign operations to unvaccinated military personnel. Do you have any idea what percentage of the staff has been vaccinated? How many percent of the military are refusing the necessary vaccination against COVID-19? Do military personnel submit a vaccination certificate to their employer or do they do so by declaration of honour? Does the DOD include the full vaccination in its assessment of the operational suitability of its personnel? Is there a reduction in deployable personnel for missions resulting from vaccine refusers? There are stories about vaccine deniers who are denied access to military bases. Given the proliferation of fake news concerning the coronavirus, can the Minister state whether, because of their refusal to vaccination or the failure to comply with the COOVID-19 measures, soldiers were indeed denied access to their workshop? If so, how many cases were involved and in how many cases did the persistent failure to comply with the measures give rise to sanctions or even dismissal?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u20	Mr Francken, like any other employer in Belgium, does not have a complete view of the percentage of workers already vaccinated. Defense has a limited group of about 5,000 people who require medical personnel and personnel necessary for operations self-vaccine. This group has the necessary vaccination data at its disposal. The rest and most of the military and civilians working in the Defense Department were vaccinated in civilian centres. Since the end of June 2021, Defence has had a limited view of the vaccination rate of its employees based on the self-registration tool @medcovid, where staff can submit their vaccination data on a voluntary basis. At the beginning of August, almost 8,200 employees have logged in and about 5,300 complete vaccinations have been validated. Defense has no idea of the vaccine deniers, either in the military or in civilian personnel. There is no legal obligation whereby the staff must provide evidence of vaccination to the employer. In the context of self-registration already notified, however, a validation of the data transmitted by medical personnel is carried out. For the personnel vaccinated by the Defense Department, the Department of Defense has the evidence of vaccination. Some covid vaccinated employees are still operational. At present, we do not see any significant reduction in the employability of employees. Access to military quarters and workshops is, of course, subject to federal or local covid measures. Defence has no knowledge, either directly or through the syndicated representation, that staff were denied access to 15 minutes for refusing covid vaccination. No statutory sanctions have been imposed today for non-compliance with the measures to prevent the spread of covid. There may be disciplinary sanctions imposed on individual military forces by the military hierarchy, but there is no comprehensive register of these.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u21	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u22	Madam Minister, the previous government already decided in June 2020 to award meal vouchers to candidate, professional and reserve soldiers in so-called normal service. The Minister also promised that they would be there, one of the measures you proudly announced in the margins of your POP plan, personal or priority. When I questioned you about this in March, you assured me that as far as meal cheques are concerned, they will be rolled out this year, but without giving a clear deadline. We have been a year since the first announcement and among the military there is being smeared because they were under the assumption that they would receive meal cheques for the first time in July. Hence my questions to the Minister. What's the status of the DOD on the rollout of meal cheques? From when can our military expect their first meal cheques and is it clearly communicated about this? When do you expect to accept the appropriate KBs for this? Is there a delay here? If so, what is the reason? Where are you now with the roll-out of the rest of your POP plan, in particular the promised equalisation of wages? Why hasn't your College De Bleeker received any proposals from you on the concrete budgetary impact? After all, the question dates back some time ago, so I assume that some things have happened since then. Please explain. By what time can we expect the translation of the agreements concluded with the trade unions into concrete regulations? Are there any additional negotiations in progress? And how are the talks within the government progressing on this? Finally, how much is the plan going to cost? How much of this can be achieved within the staff envelope and at which posts will be saved in order to pay for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u23	Before going further into the questions, I would like to say that reinvesting in the field of staff needs to be looked at more broadly than just the personnel initiatives mentioned. It is also about investing in infrastructure and well-being, but also in the equipment of our military. A first important part in the field of staff is the increased recruitment, in particular the recruitment during one legislative term of more than 10 000 new employees for Defence. For 2021, and thanks to the efforts made, the first double entry into the Royal School of Petty Officers, we are on the right track to achieve our goal. As regards the adjustment of the betting, the regulatory text was negotiated with the trade unions and the file was submitted to IF. Given the importance and scope of the dossier, it is still being discussed within the government. The award of meal cheques to Defence staff requires the publication of two royal decrees in the Belgian Official Journal and the execution of a public contract. KB's drafts for the award of meal cheques to the military and civilian personnel of Defence were submitted to the Finance Inspector and are submitted for agreement to the Minister of Civil Service and the Secretary of State for the Budget. Finally, the KB, which regulates the increase in intensive service allowances, permanences, operations and night watch and negotiated with the trade unions, was also submitted to the Finance Inspector. That file was also forwarded to the Secretary of State for Budget for agreement. The budgetary impact of these initiatives is included in the Defence budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u24	Madam Minister, there is still a great deal of uncertainty about the POP plan. I have been asking for months about the budgetary framework in this area. You answer that there is more than just the POP plan, which you have negotiated with the trade unions, and that the increase in the wager is now with the Finance Inspector. But what is the exact cost? When will the measure enter into force? All that remains a great mystery, just like anyone who has to pay for it. Secretary of State De Bleeker notes in committee that she has not yet received a question or file from you. I don't know who's telling the truth; I suppose she'll see what comes in her cabinet anyway. In any case, the file would now be with the IF and would then end up in the Budget Department. We will certainly follow up on the problems of recruitment, and I have another question about this later. As I understand it, the file on the meal cheques is now in agreement with Mrs De Sutter and Mrs De Bleeker. After that, the Council of Ministers must give its agreement. It will therefore take some time, at least 90 days, before the measure is implemented, given that you have to work with a public tender and the Council of Ministers has to decide on the final allocation. In short, the meal cheques are certainly no longer before the end of this year and there will be nothing more to do than to include them in the budgetary control, which must also be submitted to the European Commission. Do you have any idea if the measure would apply?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u25	As soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u26	We are, of course, in favour of this. I am not saying that you are going crazy, but a lot of soldiers thought it could be done faster, because Mr Goffin had already announced the measure last year. You cannot blame the military for finding them for a very long time two years before they will be able to enjoy it. Either way, we'll follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u27	Mr President, Minister, in the past the theme of suicide has been discussed several times within the Ministry of Defence. It is worrying that the numbers are always significantly higher than the average number of 30 out of 100,000 that we expect for the male population in Belgium. The tragic outcome of the Jürgen Conings case sheds light on this subject. Madam Secretary, can you give the figures of suicides in the Belgian army over the last five years? Do you see any details in the figures? For example, are they higher with certain components or units, or can they be linked to a post-operative phase? What are currently the structural and/or informal provisions within Defence for a prevention strategy? For example, how many persons does Defense have at its mental health centre, the psychosocial platform and regional psychosocial teams to provide support? Is that enough? In addition to the traditional operation with chaplains and members of the medical component, do you see options for outsourcing the help or bet through the reserve to allow professionals from other sectors to improve support? Is our country still active in the NATO working group on the prevention of suicide? What specific lessons do we draw from our cooperation with our allies?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u28	Mr. Francken, if we take the last five years in Defense, there were 12 suicides of Defence employees in 2016, 8 in 2017, 4 in 2018, 6 in 2019 and 10 in 2020. In 2020 it mainly concerned volunteers, while in previous years all categories, volunteers, petty officers and officers were represented. In terms of age, the 30- to 50-year-olds are the largest risk group. Besides, it's all men. This is in line with the trend in the Belgian population. No link to operations can be identified. It is often a multifactorial process, with no single main cause being identified. Support for the prevention of suicide comes under the general psychosocial, moral and religious assistance and is ensured by various actors, namely the internal prevention and protection service at the workplace, the social service, the mental health centre and the religious and moral assistance service. Each department has its representatives in the five regional platforms, Zeebrugge, Leopoldsburg, Brussels, Marche-en-Famenne and Florennes. In the case of a suicide, they are used according to their expertise in assisting family members, colleagues and managers. All psychosocial, moral and religious actors were formed in suicide prevention by the Centre for Mental Health Care Brussels. In addition, prevention of suicide is part of the statutory training of medical personnel in the competence centre of the medical component. In this way, some 60 medical staff are trained each year. At present, there are no initiatives or plans to further expand the support through outsourcing or deployment of the reserve. There is no longer any participation in the NATO working group. The report prepared by the Research Task Group 218 led by Dr. Holloway and, among other things, with the Belgian cooperation of Major Sylvie Aerens, was delivered and awarded the Scientific Achievement Award. On this basis, a manual was drawn up for the command and the aid workers in case they encounter an attempt at suicide.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u29	They're horrible stories about the 40 men who killed themselves in five years in the Defense Department. There's never any reason at the Department of Defense. Of course, it's almost always multifactorial. I'm very concerned about Afghanistan. A lot of veterans are wondering what they did there. I read in a very good interview with you in the Humo that extra efforts have been made to work with the veterans. From the interview you seem calmer, although the journalist was on his qui-vive. He did ask the right questions. All veterans have been contacted as part of the evacuation operation. Afghanistan is a military debacle. Defence has therefore also taken steps to offer additional guidance to our veterans in the context of Afghanistan. That is a good thing. Hopefully there won't be any suicides. That would be terrible. What happened in Afghanistan is bad enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u30	Mr President, Madam Minister, in order for the agenda to move forward, I will not repeat the whole introduction. You will undoubtedly also know the whole story about the F-16 accident on 1 July 2021, if I am not mistaken, in Leeuwarden. In short, my questions come down to this. You promised me in an earlier question sometime in July 2021 that the investigation was still ongoing. As soon as the investigation was completed, you promised me that you would come forward with the results. So what is the state of play with regard to the report of the Aviation Safety Investigation Board? What are the possible conclusions and recommendations you draw from that report?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u31	Mr President, Mr Creyelman, a aviation safety report from the Aviation Safety Investigation Board consists of three parts. Part 1 concerns the list of facts without analysis. That part will be completed in the coming weeks. Part 2 includes the analysis, the causes and the recommendations so that such an accident would no longer occur. That part will not be worked out until the actual investigation has been completed. It shall be completed within a period of one year after the accident. Part 3 deals with the actions taken by the different competent services on the recommendations of the ASIB. I've instructed the Aviation Safety Direction to forward the report to me as soon as it's finalized. I will then forward it to the secretariat of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u32	Mr President, Minister, we have not really learned much. The analysis of the facts was largely provided to us by you during the previous round of questions we organised on this subject. Is there any possibility of getting the first part of the report, in order to know the details a little more, or can the report only be obtained in its entirety by the committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u33	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u34	I understand that, didn't I? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u35	I'm hearing a commitment from the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u36	We're a little short on time. So the next question is certainly the last question that is asked. After all, the Minister has another urgent obligation. So I ask everyone to keep their or her question relatively brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u37	Madam Minister, it is the third or fourth time we have questioned you about the problem of the HRM@Defence computer system. This was introduced at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year in order to facilitate the payment of salaries and contributions from military personnel. At the beginning of this year, we saw that there were immediate major problems concerning the timely and complete payment of military personnel, mainly as a result of the introduction of this new system. The unpaid amount was therefore not much higher than thousands of euros over the following months. This had to do with salaries, additional premiums, fees for foreign operations and the like. In reply to previous questions, including myself and other colleagues, you have said that the problem is being worked on and that all affected parties will obtain their financial rights retroactively. In a committee in May, you mentioned that late payments would still be made in April. You have also said that a contact point has been set up for defence personnel facing financial difficulties due to late payments and that their applications would be processed with the highest priority. In addition, you have also said that information and training sessions are provided that explain the state of affairs of HRM@Defence, or about frequently asked questions that their helpdesk receives. In the meantime, we are seven, eight or nine months later and, unfortunately, together with the military who are involved, we have found that the problem of payment has not been solved at all. There are actions by military unions, such as ACMP and VSOA Defense, with banners on which "the military are sick of it" and "I want my money" is written. These calls for help from soldiers who have been affected should not therefore be surprised. It has even come to the point that the military trade unions have raised the continuing problems with their staff and have now been taken to court. In April, they also prepared a number of symbol files to officially fail you and the Defense Department. The deadline of 7 June, which you announced in May, has now expired as a long one. There are also problems with the transfer of leave and recovery days. This has not been done automatically for a number of staff members. Madam Minister, what is the current state of play on financial compensation for salaries and premiums? How many late payments are involved and what amounts are involved? What types of fees are we talking about? How do you explain that the problems persist and that the target date has not been met? Has a decision already been taken on the recruitment of additional staff under the Rosetta plan? It seems obvious to me that you have had contacts with Oracle in the meantime. What was the outcome of these contacts with the software company with which you set up the cooperation on HRM@Defence? Will they be held liable for the many childhood diseases that have led to this problem of payment? What is the state of play with regard to the transfer of leave and recovery days? This is not unimportant to the staff who have been under severe pressure in recent months. How will you solve this problem in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u38	Minister, this is an awkward situation, you know that! These agents deserve their salary! This is not the first time this has happened and it does not give an optimal image of Defence to our agents and to the outside world. Where are we? Has the situation been resolved? For the future, can you guarantee that this kind of unfortunate and desolating incidents for agents will not happen again? They're right to pay her money and not be happy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u39	Minister, it has been several months since we have come back to the issue of HRM software, which poses many problems for staff. Each time, you assured us that the problems were being dealt with and that within the next few days or weeks, everything would be resolved. However, it appears that this is not the case, in particular because of the company's delays in providing the software. Minister, where are we today? Have you made firm contact with the company so that it finally resolves all the problems that have been reported? If not, does Defence envisage other more radical solutions, such as market cancellation and call for other software, for example? Can you once again assure the injured staff that they will receive all the benefits and bonuses that are due to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u40	Madam Minister, I agree with these questions and the critical attitude. There are a lot of soldiers very high and I want solutions to be found, it has been long enough now. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, the section on betting and related allowances and allowances works in the technical field as it should. By monthly completion, about 35,000 betting payments identify a certain number of problems that will then be resolved within the following month. The central administrators will pay extra attention in the coming period to eliminating the backlog, about 340 files, and regularising the manual files for the betting, about 1,500 files. For the hatch performance there is a greater catch-up movement to carry out. However, it is important to note that the vast majority of payments for the average of more than 25,000 performance and expense notes are carried out correctly on a monthly basis. Defence and the firm still need to solve just over 800 of the more than 2,000 reported problems. In addition, it is also a fact that for a fully new maximum automated system to function correctly, the data at source must be correctly captured and all actors must carry out the various steps correctly. The fact that not all data were correctly transmitted makes it impossible to calculate the backlog in terms of staff, categories or total amounts. Defence continues to rely on the training, information and support of the secretaries responsible for day-to-day benefit management. Last week the trade unions were briefed on the problem. I regret the current situation, but I would like to point out that many efforts are being made by the various services concerned to minimise the impact on staff. The recruitment of additional Rosetta staff can help to reduce the workload within Defence in general. However, this is a solution with limited short-term added value for HRM@Defence given the complexity and technicality of the follow-up of performance. The HRM@Defence project was implemented through a public contract with Capgemini. Although the core of the software is based on the product Oracle PeopleSoft, there is no contractual link with Oracle. The configuration and integration of the software based on specifications provided by the Defence and aligned with Belgian legislation and defence-specific rules are in the hands of Capgemini. For this work, the firm partly uses subcontractors. A daily dialogue dealing with problems and results is held with the contractor. On a biweekly basis, the planning, the priorities of solving software problems, the execution of any adjustments and their contractual implications are followed with Capgemini. Ending the contract is not seen as a satisfactory solution to the existing problems. The transfer of leave and recovery days was carried out in HRM@Defence at the scheduled time and according to the applicable rules. This transfer went well. The helpdesk received only one general question from an administrative officer and the necessary explanations were provided. No individual problem cases were reported during the transfer. I stress that every eligible person must receive and receive the remuneration to which he or she is entitled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u42	Madam Secretary, what a disappointment and what amateurism. The experience was already known to our Dutch partners and therefore they rejected the entire software package. Just at that moment, however, we buy it. It is really a question of asking for problems when dealing with a tender in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u43	I'm not the one who bought this software. That was before me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u44	It's about Defense, Madam Secretary. You are the ultimate responsibility of everything that happens within the Defense Department, and your job is to tackle the problem of anyone who has made that decision, to assume your responsibility and to solve the problems for the personnel. That's your job. Moving the blackbird to previous policymakers is very weak, especially in this file. I can be funny about your answer, but the military personnel are laughing anything but. The file hasn't been solved at all. It's kafka. You say that it is impossible to quantify and you regret that everything had to evolve in this way, including the actions of the trade unions and so on. Your answers now are very similar to the answers you have given to previous questions on this problem. You say that there is a forum where complaints can be dealt with, that there are information sessions and all kinds of initiatives are being taken, but I still wonder when you intend to do real work on them, because sometimes, in really distressing cases, the staff are on the gums because of late and incomplete payments, but we must always work on them. The cause of the late payments lies with the dysfunctional software system that was introduced. Moreover, I hear that there are even problems with leave and recovery days. In the past, however, you expressed self-confidence about your ability to resolve the problem in time. Then you didn't move the hot potato. First, you were aiming for regularization by the end of March. I quote from the report: 'All staff have received their wages, no later than the last working day of January. The problems have been mapped out, work is being done with the firm. A similar situation should not arise at the end of March." That's what you had recorded in February. In May, you said: "The betting section and the corresponding fees and allowances are now going correctly." We have to do it. [[!]] I would also like to quote: 'With the exception of a few exceptions, there are therefore no late payments, but automatic corrections for previously established derogations'. That sounds like when everything was on wheels. There is nothing less true, however. We still have complaints coming in. That will certainly be the case with your administration or army management. In the meantime, the military trade unions have failed you through some legal symbol files, so they really mean it. I believe that your cabinet should deal with the issue more seriously and as a matter of priority. It is a shame that our soldiers, who work daily for your safety and our safety, have to wait for their hard-earned pennies. Will they be grateful for their contribution to tackling the past crisis? The Flemish Interest no longer accepts such a policy. We speak the language of the military, no longer with an oral question for explanation, but with an interplay and a motion of recommendation to the government in which we insist on an urgent approach to the problem, otherwise the military profession and statute may be even more attractive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answers. I think we really need to increase the pressure on the company that is in charge of the development of this software, which is the guarantee of its proper functioning. Things have to work properly, our agents can be paid on time. No one should be harmed because of these mistakes. If that were the case, the contracts that were entered into for the purchase of this software will have to be reviewed. Things must work, and I hear your will on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u46	Minister, thank you for your answers. You have to deal with the wanderings of your predecessors and it's not easy. After eight months of repeated problems, society must face up to its responsibilities and force a lasting solution as soon as possible. I hear you're going to strengthen the training. I hope this time will be the right one. What is happening today is intolerable for Defence personnel and I understand his anger. This can only resonate as a lack of respect for him. Minister, I hope that this is the last time we have to address this issue in committee and that it will all be resolved in the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u47	Mr President, I agree with the previous speakers. This is a terriblely annoying file. If we are to make staff a priority, we must, of course, start with a decent payout of contributions and wages. There are a lot of problems and bugs in that system. A brief anecdote, Madam Secretary. Mr Jambon and I once placed an order with a Portuguese firm to ensure that there were electronic gates at the airport. If one wants to take the plane in Zaventem, and one does not go through the VIP entrance but through the ordinary entrance, one has to show his passport and then the gate opens or it stays closed. There's always trouble with that. That's more broken than anything else. The queues are longer there than at normal border controls. That's terribly frustrating. We failed that Portuguese company because we had no choice. That's just a disaster. That just costs a lot of money. It may be possible to look at the legal situation, because the service is lacking, or one cannot say: the service is insufficient and the contract is what it is, so we want to recover some of the costs, or better agreements must be made. Well, it worked out at the time. The Portuguese have had to give in after the legal procedure. I suggest that you take your legal service within the Defense Department to see whether the contractor cannot be called in because some of the assignments are clearly not delivered. The fact that this is taking so long is very annoying for you, and also for the staff, of course. So I'd like to give you that tip.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic574x.u48	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Annick Ponthier and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Annick Ponthier and the response of the Minister of Defence, - considering that the introduction of Oracle's HRM software system by the end of 2020 raised frequent problems with the timely and full payout of betting, charges for operations and exercises and fees for defence personnel; - having regard to the fact that, in the case of a number of staff members, late payments amount to thousands of euros, resulting in financial difficulties; - whereas in some cases there are problems with the transfer of leave and recovery days, which are not automatic; - whereas Minister Dedonder indicated that he would deal with the problem as a matter of priority and that all affected parties would obtain their financial rights retroactively in the month of April and thereafter by July 2021; - whereas the Defence Department has set up a contact point for personnel facing financial difficulties and their applications are processed with the highest priority; - considering that information and training sessions were organised to explain the state of play at HRM@Defence and to address frequently asked questions to the help desk; - considering that the payment problems persist and that the target dates were not reached in April and 7 July; - whereas the military trade unions ACMP and VSOA Defense were brought to court in April and the defence was officially in default; asks the government to: - ensure immediately that military personnel who have not yet been properly paid or reimbursed obtain their full financial rights without delay and retroactively; - immediately remedy this problem by calling Oracle software company to account and putting it under the necessary pressure to eliminate the childhood diseases in the system and providing compensation to compensate for the damage suffered; - replaces the HRM system with a system that we have guarantees that it will work better if the foregoing is not feasible; - introduces a more accessible complaint system and provides sufficient crew for these services to address the most acute payment problems as quickly as possible." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Annick Ponthier and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs. Annick Ponthier and the Minister of Defence's response, - Whereas the introduction, at the end of 2020, of Oracle's HRM software has repeatedly disrupted the full and timely payment of salaries, operating and financial premiums and allowances for defence personnel; - Whereas, owing to the arrears of several thousands of euros in several staff members, they are facing financial difficulties; Whereas the absence of automatic transfer of leave and recuperation days is sometimes problematic; - Considering that Minister Dedonder had announced that the problem would be dealt with as a matter of priority and that all the staff concerned would recover their dues retroactively in April and then no later than July 2021; - Considering the establishment by the Defence of a contact point for staff affected by financial problems and the priority given to the processing of their requests; - Whereas information and training sessions have been organised in order to comment on the state of play of the situation with regard to HRM@Defence, as well as on issues frequently dealt with by the helpdesk; - Whereas payment problems persist and the deadlines set for April and then 7 July have not been met; - Considering that, in April, the CGPM and SLFP-Defence unions referred the matter to the court, which officially notified the Defence; Asks the government: - to pay or compensate correctly, retroactively and immediately, members who have not yet been paid; - to remedy the problem immediately by requiring explanations from the Oracle software company and by exerting the necessary pressure to ensure that the company eliminates the running problems of the software and provides compensation in order to compensate for the damage suffered; - to replace the HRM software with software that provides guarantees of better operation if the above conditions cannot be met; - to introduce more accessible procedures for lodging complaints and to provide for sufficient staff in the services concerned in order to resolve the most serious payment problems as soon as possible." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Christophe Lacroix. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Christophe Lacroix. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
