ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u1	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a number of speakers are not yet present. We are going to be flexible on the order of issues. For the first current affairs debate, we have grouped questions 1, 9 and 13 together initially, which makes for a broader topical debate, but we have left the package of questions and the speakers in the same order. So don't worry if it's not in the encoding order of your questions. This will allow the minister to answer by subthematics, i.e. on reform, on funding and then on methodology. This current affairs debate has many questions. I suggest you do what we used to do for the broad debates on covid. If you have a question, you have two minutes. If you have more than one question, you have four minutes. If you want to refer your questions back to the written version to have all the questions referenced in the report, just point it out! Your complete question will then be transcribed in the report. There can be no mixing. Either you make a four-minute intervention, or you refer to all of your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u2	Mr Van der Donkt apologizes. He had withdrawn his questions, but that's not registered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u3	If we refer to our written question, will we have a minute more reply time, so five minutes in total for multiple questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u4	It is true that we did so in the covid debates. In doing so, if you refer to your written question, you will have additional speaking time, if necessary, on the occasion of your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u5	Madam Minister, I refer to the written version of all my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u6	Madam Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u7	Madam President, Minister, we have had to wait a very long time to finally discuss the pension dossier with you in this committee. We have already heard part of the ambitions through the media. In the meantime, we know your government's ambitions. You want to link more confidence to the financial feasibility, both pension and labour market policies must be in line with the level of activity of 80%. With regard to future pension policy, we find a few generalities in the government agreement, but we do not really have an idea of this. This dossier will dominate the political autumn. What role will the early retirement play in your pension plan? Do you hold on to the entanglements that the Michel government has introduced? Is your pension plan still talking about a bridge pension or is the scheme going to be completely out of control? What about the exception for the heavy-duty professions? Will you provide a solution? If so, which one? In the Government Declaration there is a greater importance of effective years worked for the calculation of the minimum pension. What does that mean for the treated periods? The ageing committee reports annually on the budgetary and social consequences of ageing populations. According to the Commission's latest forecasts, total expenditure would increase from 24.6% of GDP in 2019 to 29.8% of GDP in 2070. The budgetary cost of ageing is therefore 5.2% of GDP. Compared to the previous July 2020 report, costs are 0.9% of GDP higher. The discussion remains the same: who will pay for it? In 2014, the Pension Reform Committee already wrote: "In short, whatever concrete options are taken, the search for additional funding is inevitable both in the short term and in the longer term. This must be done in a most equitable and economically efficient way." The committee believes that capital-based funding should play a role in this. In addition to raising the level of activity, are you looking in that direction when it comes to financing pensions and social security?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u8	Minister, my question concerns the conditions for access to a minimum pension. We have heard about your pension reform through the press, especially on this subject. The President of the Open Vld also spoke on this subject to contradict you on an important aspect. In order to obtain a minimum pension, he believes that he needs a career of 20 years of effective employment, whereas you are instead advocating 10 years of effective employment. You have considered his intervention a procedure not very serene on his part, as a kind of provocation. Nevertheless, this is still reflected in the government agreement. So we're going to have to put this discussion on the table. In the idea of changing what existed before – workers were entitled to a minimum pension after 30 years of career (including similar periods) – it is necessary to take stock. In your new vision, how many employees would not have been entitled to their minimum pension in 2020 and 2019? We believe it is important to take stock of it first before we change things, especially since the feedback and the reality show that it is mainly women who will be penalized by this measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u9	I am going to ask myself a question on behalf of the Ecolo-Groen Group. For us, pension reform is not only expected, but also important. A solidarity society is seen to protect its elders and to recognize the societal investment of any kind in a lifetime. Ensuring that pensioners can continue their lives by engaging in the struggles of this century and that they are available for future generations is a priority for us. Workers must first and foremost be entitled to a legal, solid and guaranteed pension. Minister, you have recently announced some broad outlines of the upcoming reform. We have read all this with great attention. We would just like to stress that for us, a calm, serious and precise debate must take place now. We really hope that we will be able to work in this dynamic. We can already see that some proposals are clearly very interesting and deserve some initial clarification. First, we wanted to question you about the 60-year-old rule and the 42-year-old rule. This proposal takes into account the realities of those who have started working very young or women who often have shorter careers. The conditions and distinctions of the duration of actual employment, the very concept of which is critical, will remain to be clarified. At this stage, can you tell us more about your interpretation of this concept. This is in line with what my colleague has just mentioned. Changing the denominator of full-time part-time work is a key element. Therefore, should it be technically understood that all part-time workers could benefit from a kind of gradual adjustment of this situation? We believe – and you have said – that a policy of recognizing the family dimension in the calculation of pensions is to be foreseen. It's very important. The construction site seems to be engaged. We believe that it is a priority and will allow a significant increase in women's pensions, which is still on average lower than that of men. But in concrete terms, how do you envisage this recognition?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u10	Madam Secretary, it happens that the government surprises the opposition. Every once in a while, she even surprises the press. As part of the new political culture, you have now surprised the other ministers. That is less surprising for those who see how the government is currently operating, but it is amazing if we look at the coalition agreement. In fact, you would start a wide consultation and consult all the groups involved, I assume also your colleagues from the majority, in order to submit a proposal on 1 September. Although your services are likely to be less heavily burdened by corona than those of your colleagues, you have achieved only one thing. You have put forward a proposal in the press. The reaction of Minister Van Peteghem, for example, indicated that the consultation within the government did not really mean much. Mr Lachaert's communication a few weeks earlier also pointed out that he was concerned about the plans you were secretly setting up. In the media, you said that affordability is guaranteed. The Chairman of the Ageing Committee said that he would like to pass this on as soon as he could take note of the plans. It was said, however, that a question never came to pass. The measures already taken by the government, with the increase in minimum wages and so on, are reported to lead to an increase in the cost of ageing by 0.9%. Without these measures, however, the invoice would already be properly ticked as a percentage of gross domestic product. Recent polls have shown that the public increasingly believes that they will receive a pension at all. That is actually very serious because it indicates that the faith in the pension system is crumbling, something we really must avoid. You contribute to this by giving the impression that there is still much room for earlier and wider pensions. Realist people think that in the long term this will lead to real pension rights simply no longer being met. The confidence in the system was partly undermined by you. Why have you deviated over the past year from the consultations envisaged in the government agreement? On what calculation did you base the claim that your plans would be budget-neutral? In this respect, you referred to an efficacy level of 80%. However, in order to achieve this, we still have to wait for a number of initiatives. Who made the calculation you support? Will you share them with Parliament? Will you respond to the ageing committee's offer to pass on your plans? Do you agree that the increase in ageing costs by 3.2% of GDP by 2026 confronts us with an acute financing problem? How will you do that, especially in the light of additional costs caused by new proposals? What role will the Ageing Committee play in the coming months, as the government is supposed to make a real proposal by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u11	Madam President, Madam Minister, I think we can say that you went out on your own. Today, a number of questions arise about the status of the reform you announced and even about the status of the note. I was personally asked that this note, in any case the version that was published in the press, appeared on your official minister's website? Personally, that seems surprising to me. Indeed, when you are a minister, things are announced when they have been decided and validated by the government. But the least we can say is that after you left alone, your reform has generated a lot of reactions in the first place within the majority of government. That is the point with regard to the note that has been presented. But I imagine there is another note with a little more consistent elements by measure. I am thinking in particular of their budgetary impact? A concern for transparency would require that the "true" note – if I may say so – or the entire note covering all aspects be made public. I therefore ask you here to convey it to us in order to facilitate our work, but also communication to all citizens, in the interests of truth. I would like to mention a number of aspects, including the timetable and the consultation procedure. As for the schedule, after you were released, the Prime Minister decided to postpone the pension file. What exactly is the situation? When will it be presented to the government? What is the timetable for negotiations? What discussions are planned and with which social partners? I was struck by the fact that there were two different approaches to this. It is felt that a series of measures should be the subject of the Government's sole decision, without social consultation, and that another set of measures should be postponed. This raises questions when it comes to a coherent and ambitious reform. This package should be the subject of consultation with the social partners. On the content, important elements are left out. I am thinking in particular of a whole series of injustices, particularly in mixed careers. I am also thinking of the approximation of the status of different schemes, which seems very marginal in the note you are proposing today. There is also the pension issue. It is true that minimum pensions are taken into account but not those just above, if I may say so, which remain extremely low with inequities when the minimum pension is raised. What about the difficult trades, since your 42-year-old career condition for a 60-year-old leave allows for those who have never studied? But there are also hard jobs for those who have studied. I am thinking of nurses, teachers, people who work in the field of safety. I come to the final point, namely the budgetary sustainability of pensions over the short, medium and long term. Has it been examined?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u12	Madam President, Madam Minister, in early September, you announced in the press your plan for pension reform. This reform deals with various aspects: early pension, part-time pension, pension bonuses, minimum pension subject to certain conditions, etc. In view of the few measures mentioned, could you clarify how this reform will be financed? What will be the budgetary impact? In terms of form, discovering this reform in the press is somewhat regrettable for us, as parliamentarians of the Social Affairs Committee. But this may also be regrettable for your colleagues, the Minister of Independents or the Minister of Public Service. In fact, there were many reactions. What is the status of your discussions with the ministers involved in this reform, as well as with the government as a whole? Finally, the measures mentioned above will have to be coordinated with the social partners. Have they already been consulted on the subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u13	The debate on access to the minimum pension caused a lot of movement. Now the border is on a career of 30 years. These can be both the effective working years and the treated periods, e.g. parental leave or unemployment benefit. The coalition agreement contains a passage on this subject which states that a condition of effective employment to be determined will also be introduced in future. The practical effects of this passage still need to be addressed. The CD&V itself has a proposal about this. Of course, we want the current system with a minimum career of 30 years, but we also want to open the way for people who have worked for 20 years but do not come to 30 years. This also gives them access to the minimum pension pro rata. This does not mean that they will receive a minimum pension of EUR 1,500, but they will receive a minimum pension of EUR 20/45 of which EUR 666,66. Someone who's only worked for 20 years won't get the same as someone who worked for 45 years. Mr Lachaert, President-in-Office of the Council, proposed that at least a career of 20 years of effective work should be achieved. The PS president, Mr Magnette, noted that if that were to happen, half of the minimum pension beneficiaries would be excluded, of which three quarters were women. The inequality between men and women would therefore increase. We must, of course, avoid deepening the pension gap that exists today. So we're looking forward to your pension reforms anyway. Access to the minimum pension is part of this. Are Mr Magnette's claims true? What are the numbers? What are your conclusions? How do you feel about our proposal on this two-way slope? We believe that this way we will also eliminate injustice. How many people would be entitled to a minimum pension at a minimum of 10 effective working years, based on the figures we have today? How much would that be at 15 or 20 years? These calculations are based on the fact that from 208 days worked per year onwards full-time is regarded as full-time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u14	Let's try to pay attention to the chronometer because there are a lot of questions today!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u15	Madam President, Minister, you have given us your ambitious proposals on pensions as part of your reform. To the attacks on each other, you replied that your reform would be fiscally neutral. Could you tell us more in order to reassure everyone here?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u16	Madam President, for the sake of clarity, I propose that you first respond to the question of minimum pension. Access to minimum pensions. Secondly, I will discuss financial sustainability and, finally, the method of pension reform. It would be complex to answer each one according to the diversity of the questions asked. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your interest in my reform proposal. The question of minimum pension is important and sensitive. It deserves our full attention and attention, as you show here. I would like to point out – it is all too often forgotten – that this government has decided to increase the minimum pension considerably. In this Parliament, we expect an increase of 11%, in addition to the welfare envelope and indexation. This will allow workers with a full career of 45 years to benefit from almost 300 additional euros per month. This is a significant improvement for 700,000 people receiving a minimum pension. This represents almost one out of every three pensioners today or one-fifth of workers with a mixed career, and even nearly three-quarters of the self-employed. In addition to these unseen increases in the minimum pension, the government agreement also provides for the introduction of a condition of effective employment of a still to be determined size or equivalent measure. In this context, I propose a minimum condition of 10 years of at least 104 days or 1,040 days of effective employment. This does not mean that a person with a ten-year career is entitled to a minimum pension. I have heard it again, and you have repeated it, Mrs Lanjri, it is not because we have ten years of career that we will have access to a minimum pension. I hear it continuously on the radio and I prefer not to repeat what is wrong. The current condition of at least 30 career years remains. A person with ten years of effective career will not be entitled to the minimum pension of EUR 1,500, as suggested in the press. The calculation of the minimum pension remains proportional in relation to the career duration, as is the case today. Before we can speak of a minimum condition of effective employment for an opening of the right to the minimum pension, I propose two important conditions. What are these two important conditions? First, we need to take more account of the increasing flexible forms of employment in which young people in particular find themselves. According to the figures of six G10 to date, 30 per cent of current 35-year-old workers do not form pension rights before the age of 25. This proportion has more than tripled in 30 years. This increased from 9 per cent to 30 per cent. Young people must therefore work longer today in order to obtain a pension, while they do not acquire any social rights or insufficient rights for their periods of work at the beginning of their career (flexijobs, internships, training in companies, etc.).). Secondly, the situation of women in the labour market and the impact on their pensions must be sufficiently taken into account. Indeed, the government agreement explicitly states that inequalities between men and women must be taken into account and, to the extent possible, reduced. The CD&V's proposal to reduce the total career duration to 20 years instead of 30 years is an angle that is also being worked on in the context of pension reform. It's important. Open Vld's proposal to introduce, in addition to a minimum career period for the minimum pension of 30 years and a minimum of 20 years of effective employment, does not meet the objective of reducing the gender gap. Such a measure would exclude two thirds of the new beneficiaries, of which three quarters would be women. With regard to the precise figures, Mrs Lanjri, you have tabled a written question. The answer is in the finalisation phase. You will have all the numbers next week if you will see the written question. I'm not going to talk to them today. It is important that we do not make a hasty decision and assess the various proposals soberly and objectively on the basis of their impact on the ground. With a view to reducing the gender gap in pensions, I also propose that the calculation of the minimum pension for part-time workers, who are, I would remind you, the majority of women, be increased so that they and they also have the right to a sufficiently high and dignified pension. In addition, as also suggested by CD&V, we are considering introducing a supplementary condition of effective work. This can also provide a solution for access to the minimum pension for assisting spouses and reception parents, which is a priority for me. These elements form an integral part of the pension reform that I submitted to the government at the beginning of September. These proposals will first be discussed in the government and then submitted to the social partners. . It goes without saying that, after the government has reached a consensus, these proposals will also be submitted to Parliament. Many people had an opinion on the affordability of my proposal before the figures were published. That's a little weird and especially shameful to people. I have worked with concrete estimates and have asked the administration a great deal. I would like to thank them once again in this way. The Federal Pension Service has made estimates of the budgetary impact of the various reform proposals I have submitted to the government in the context of phase 2. Phase 1 is the increase in minimum pensions. It is clear that after the government has reached a consensus, the advice of the social partners will be sought and heard. Of course, the institutions, such as the Federal Planning Bureau and the Ageing Committee, will also be further involved. Of course, there will also be detailed figures on the estimated budgetary impact of the proposals which the government will then submit to Parliament. It is true that pension reform is one of the milestones of the Belgian plan for resilience and recovery. It is therefore a condition for the European Commission to make about EUR 5.9 billion available to our country. The plan sets out two times, September 2021, in which a proposal from the Minister of Pensions is submitted to the Government of the Republic of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, which has been submitted to the Government of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and May 2024, which is the latest date for the adoption of the reforms. However, the content of the pension reform is not an aspect of the milestones. It belongs to the discretion of the Member States. It is clear that the ageing of the population will have a significant impact on the evolution of pension expenditure. The number of 65-plussers currently in Belgium is about 2.2 million. According to the latest demographic outlook, it will increase to 3 million in 2040 and 3.4 million in 2070. The Study Committee on Ageing estimates in its July 2021 report that expenditure on pensions under the same policy will increase from 11.3 % of GDP in 2021 to 13.5 % in 2040 and further to 14 % in 2070. Health expenditure is also expected to increase. Total social expenditure will continue to rise to 29.8 % of GDP in 2070. This increase is often referred to as the budgetary cost of ageing. Increasing life expectancy is a social success, but the ageing of the population is also a challenge. To answer this question, we are working on several tracks. The various slopes are promoting employment, stimulating productivity growth, promoting fair taxation and sustainable financing of social security and, of course, controlling the expected increase in expenditure. It goes without saying that the increase in expenditure must remain manageable. However, given the sharp increase in the number of older people, it is an illusion to believe that expenditure on pensions will fall or stabilise in the future. An increase in expenditure is inevitable if we want pensions to allow older people to maintain a good standard of living. That is certainly my commitment. But financial sustainability is not an exclusive competence of the Minister of Pensions. This is a collective challenge. It is necessary to examine all public expenditure and revenue. Promoting economic activity is crucial for the financing of social protection. Economic growth consists of two components: the number of workers and labour productivity. With this government, we want high productivity growth. This is done through the ambitious investment plans, but also through investment in education, research and development, etc. As far as employment is concerned, too, the government is very ambitious. The objective of an employment rate of 80% is higher than the hypothesis of the Study Committee on Ageing. In order to achieve this objective, a number of measures will be needed, both from the federal government and from the regions. The aim of my powers is, in all respects, to encourage participation in the labour market. The pension reform will provide incentives to keep people working longer, including through the pension bonus. But guidance to the labour market is also central to a poverty reduction plan. It is also my intention to offer disabled people every opportunity in the labour market. In addition, our social security can only be sustainable if everyone also contributes to capacity. Additional efforts are needed to ensure fair taxation. A rigorous approach to tax avoidance and evasion also plays an important role in this. Finally, when I say that the proposal for pension reform on the table is budget neutral, it means that in the assumptions on which the administration has worked - which is not yet the Office of the Plan - we have not introduced an increase in the employment rate: on a constant assumption, a constant employment rate of 71% as it currently exists and we have not introduced an increase in the productivity rate which must and must increase with the stimulus plan and with the investments that the federal and the regions make in our economy and in our public infrastructure. Madam President, if I may, I will continue on the methodology of the reform. Here too, I will perhaps put the points back on i. It is true that there has been, which is logical, quite a lot of political games wherever they come from elsewhere, around a fundamental issue which is that of pensions and pension reform. We are talking about one of the major pillars of our social security! I want to say stop to the lies: with ten years of career we have a minimum pension. That's not true. Stop disinformation. To believe that some want to feed even more the mistrust created on pension reform under the previous legislature. As soon as I took office, I said that I would not make any fuzzy statements on the files concerning all Belgians from the youngest to the oldest. I held on to it. I've been more than discreet for eleven months, and I've been accused of it. The only thing I did was to answer the questions of parliamentarians, which is my duty as a minister. Nevertheless, I remained very vague and frustrated more than one. But that does not mean that in parallel, my office, Sigedis and my administration did nothing. We have indeed worked on pension reform. As you will be aware, I have had informal discussions with scientists and social partners. I have worked with my administration and from the beginning there have been contacts with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Social Affairs, but also between my cabinet and that of the Prime Minister. So we didn't work on an island. I really believe that this was the best way forward. I shouldn't be in the spotlights, not in my daily life, not in politics. The government agreement provides for a presentation of the pension reform on 1 September. It was written. I'll take care of it. I went out to the press to present my reform proposal. It was more than necessary in view of the many statements made by the media, which created a real cacophony of proposals of all kinds, and confusion among the citizens. It seemed to me essential to refocus the debate on the coherent reform project, the one that was built by the minister who had received these powers. The project was then tabled in the government and we decided to discuss it together after the budget work, because this issue, as the Prime Minister said this summer, is not a budget issue. Pensions will never be a budgetary variable in this government, and we will never save on pensioners. But don't think I'm gonna turn my thumbs by then. This period is being used for bilateral contacts, which are much more in-depth, with all actors on the ground and with all ministers. I'll finish by saying this. This kind of controversy, this way of trying to manipulate public opinion, is not my way of doing politics; I have far too much respect for the citizen. Thank you. For penitibility, there will still be questions attached later, and I will answer them, Madam Chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u17	So we can move on to the replicas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u18	The pension file is the file that interests all of us. For years, the ministers responsible have been putting it out there, which is a pity. In the interests of the citizens, I hope that during this period of government a rock will be moved, or rather a rock. The Minister's proposals were passed on to the press without being discussed in Parliament first. That makes us critical. You count yourself well with the 80% employment rate and so you place the responsibility on your colleague and party colleague, Minister Dermagne. Now it is true that the rise in employment in recent years has not really led to additional RSZ revenues because very high reductions have been granted on the RSZ contributions. That way, you spend twice the same money. As far as productivity growth is concerned, we are already scoring quite high in this country because there will be even more pressure on workers' shoulders. We all know where that leads: stress, burnouts and a lot of long-term sick. We're still hungry because this way everyone can count on it. Pension funding is increasingly like a win-for-life story. Gambling and assumptions will not solve the financing problem. I have the impression that that doesn't really wake you up. Allow me to calculate one of your proposals. You want to reward longer work and pay extra 2 euros per day worked. That's a noble idea for those who don't take on a calculator. Suppose someone could retire and receive a net pension of 1,500 euros. If that person works three years longer, the pension service saves 54,000 euros in pension, which he does not have to pay. That person works 250 days a year. After three years, this is 750 days at 2 euros extra per day. That's a total of 1500 euros. Do you know how many years a person has to live after retirement to earn back those 54,000 euros of missed pension income? 36 years! So if you retire at 67, you will have recovered the lost amount if you become 103 years old. We hope, of course, that everyone can grow that old. For a person who would receive a pension of 1,000 euros, that is repaid at 24 years. A person who would receive a pension of 2,000 euros would take 48 years to earn back his lost pension. In this way you can get the financing of pensions in order, but I fear a little that people will not fall into that trap, at least I hope. Madam Minister, it has become a sad habit for this purple-green government to communicate all sorts of things through the press rather than in this Parliament. As a model of interrelationship, your own coalition partner torpedoed your proposal before it was on the table. As far as the proposal itself is concerned, apart from a series of articles, we have not yet seen any detailed proposal yet. You are really embarrassing Parliament with this way of working. Not only concerned citizens want to know what decisions are in the pipeline. I myself, and I suspect all colleagues here, are curious about your final retirement plan. If you do not even bother to inform Parliament and this committee in an orderly manner, you will make the work rather difficult and even impossible for us. Apparently that is the strategy of this government and I quote the ruler's statement of the 'new political culture'. If you are wondering why many citizens turn away from politics, then some self-reflection would be appropriate here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u19	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I think it is very important that we conduct this difficult debate on pensions and pension reform in a correct and serene way. The decisions ahead of us are difficult, and I hope that we will be able to do so. It is therefore only logical and fair that we also communicate correctly. That is why I myself said: we know that if you work for 10 or 20 years, this means that you only get part of the full amount of that minimum pension, which is EUR 1,500. If someone has worked for 10 or 20 years, I think it is only logical and fair that they get a part of this pension. We fully support that. We also support the fact that you know that I am a champion of women's rights and that we need to close the pension gap. There is already a pay gap: women earn less. But women also have a much harder time retiring, because they have a much lower pension than men. That is why we have also advocated, and this is also included in the government agreement, that we certainly take into account the effects on women in these reforms. I hope and trust that you will also make those calculations and look at their impact on women. If it is already apparent that some of the people, even three quarters of them, would fall and that, in your view, two thirds would not receive a minimum pension in the event of the introduction of the career condition of twenty years of effective employment, then that is to make people happy with a dead sparrow. First, it is promised to give a minimum pension of EUR 1,500, and then close the door for two thirds of those concerned. That's not correct. I'm not saying everyone should get the same minimum pension. That's not what I'm saying. A person who has only worked for 20 years will get much less than someone who has worked for 40 years. However, it must be fair. If you've worked, you've got to get that minimum. Madam Secretary, I'm glad you're picking up the second piste or gateway. We have advocated that people who have worked for twenty years should also be entitled to the minimum pension, even for twenty years and not for forty-five years, in part. Unfortunately, however, this is not a solution for the reception parents, for example. For those who have worked for 40 years, for example, they exist and who have worked for 20 years before 2003 and 20 years after 2003, it would be very unfair to give them only half a minimum pension. They are entitled to a full minimum pension. They have worked for 40 years and that means they have to receive a pension for 40 years. In this respect, we certainly have a legislative proposal in place and hope that you will find a solution for the reception parents. We have the solution: either we approve our bill or you come up with a proposal yourself. However, we must find a solution for the reception parents and also for the assisting spouses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, now that we are meeting in front of us, we can see the chronometer more easily and I would like to stress the respect for timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u21	I, too, believe that a pension debate should be conducted in a serene manner. It has been said before: at the moment, 2 out of 3 young people are no longer confident that they will receive a pension at all after their career. It is our responsibility that young people regain confidence that they are entitled to a dignified old age and that they will be able to count on a statutory pension. We owe them that much. Trust can't be restored in one-two-three. The system is therefore quite complex. Take a look at the minimum wage: there are 7 systems, it is not easy to untangle them. If there are all kinds of balloons, you do not restore confidence by saying that you want to deny someone access to the minimum pension. That really doesn't help the case. A number of steps forward have been taken. You sketched it, too. I consider the increase of the minimum pension to EUR 1,500 and the increase in the wage ceiling to be very important. In doing so, you will make pensions more consistent with the standard of living that people have built up. However, closing the door for three quarters of women does not help us restore confidence. For now, the principles are clear. First of all, work has to pay. The higher wage ceiling and the increase in the minimum pension are in line with the pension bonus you propose in your pension reform and your proposal to include all forms of work, including the flexible forms of work. More and more young people are forced into contracts like this. If you've been forced to work in contracts like that for 15 years... I've prepared some proposals, including to deal with the abuse of day contracts. This is not an ideal form to work in for 15 years, also because of the high workload and the pressure that people generally experience. However, if it does happen, it is a good thing that this form of work also counts for the pension, so that we finally get enough career years. Work must therefore be rewarded, but those who suffer from setbacks must not be punished twice. In the beginning, it sounded that those who were ill or take up career breaks do not have access to the minimum pension. I said at the time that I would not dare to tell the parents of a disabled child who are taking care of them day and night that they are not working, let alone that I will double punish them. Same goes for people who are sick or the victim... I just wanted to say one more sentence about the funding. I keep hearing the demand for affordability and I would like to point out that Belgium is one of the European countries that spends the least on pensions. When I look at the figures, we are in the future, at the highest level, at the level where France is now. Giving people a dignified old age is a choice we have to make as a society. We must therefore provide the necessary funding for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u22	Madam Secretary, I have heard a lot of explanations but little news. The opposition parties have been tickling you since the beginning of the year with regard to your pension plans. You're right to say you've been discreet. After all, you have told us very little about the content. At the end of the recess, however, there was a turnaround and you immediately went to the media with your plan, without coming to us. Your liberal colleagues in the government probably provoked that, but in the end we had to wait another month before we could ask questions about this ourselves. We didn't get much information here, by the way. This is not enough for us at all. After all, you insist on the 42-year-old condition, even though you yourself say that women are affected by this. After all, women often do not have a career of 42 years because they are responsible for homework and caring for young children or sick parents. That kind of work often doesn't count. As a result, they have to work for up to 64, 65 or 67 years, if they will ever be able to meet that condition. This is unacceptable to the social welfare state. I have repeatedly pointed out to you and your fellow ministers in the other departments that half of the workers between 55 and 65 fear that their health will not allow it. I really invite you to listen to those people in the companies, the construction and the care sector who see themselves working until their 67th. There's something else I can hear. You give a flower, which was the headline in most newspapers. Early retirement would go from 62 to 60 years, with 42 years of service. This may be a very good solution for many, but it is only 6,000 employees. For everything else, it means working a lot longer. Is it normal for a nurse who started working at 24 to work until she's 66 years old? This doesn't seem normal to me. My wife is a caretaker. From 50 years they start to get a lot of injuries in the neck, back and shoulders. It's impossible to work longer, but I don't hear that around here. We're just looking for solutions to keep working longer or raise the efficacy level. That is why it is really important that we have hearings here to hear the voice of the people on the floor. It is normal for people to have no confidence in the system because they have to work for a lifetime for a much too low pension or because they have to work longer and longer, up to 67 years even, with compliments from the previous government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u23	Thank you for these answers, but we regret not having the numbers. I started my speech by saying that if we wanted to change the conditions for access to a minimum pension, we had to take stock first. We know that the services have the numbers and we really want to have them. It's one thing. I come back to this debate of whether it takes ten years of actual employment, or 20 years, to be able to do so. There is, in any case, a common point between you and the Open Vld. We regret it. Similar periods are swept away. We'd like to put it a little bit on the i. Yes, you used the term, which is better than "the church in the middle of the village". But we would not want to systematize or caricature the fact that people who have not worked more than twenty years are lazy. We know that it is a thought that lives, perhaps not at home, but it still lives very hard in society. Gaby gave the example of his companion. You know I worked in the distribution. Last week, I had another chance to have a little supper with two of my former colleagues. They are both in long-term illness. It would be a bit of a guilt to them because unfortunately they have not been able to obtain all these years of effective service; but it is linked to their working conditions. Having the figures is really very important, because as much as you are committed to the plan to fight poverty, we think that if we go towards this proposal to move towards twenty years of effective work, we will aggravate poverty, and especially that of women, who will be forced to go back to CPAS anyway. You know as well as I do that it is not the budgets of CPAS today that will make it possible to extend the money needed for requests for supplements. We will remain vigilant on all these points.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Moscufo. I understand the moment when you hesitate to continue to tell you that time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u25	The calculation will be proportional, which is a good thing. It will be necessary to see how this can work and to determine the number of people who will be affected by this calculation. As far as actual employment is concerned, I agree with my colleague who is concerned about the concept of actual employment and similar days. I would like to express my concern about the issue of equal days. We have heard, not in your head, the minister, but in the media, a debate about the beneficiaries of unemployment benefits who would have more at the end of their careers than the self-employed; there are life situations that do not have to be compared. We'll have to be careful. As far as the recognition of the family dimension is concerned, if I have understood correctly, it is a little too early to address the issue. I imagine that a working method will be defined. For discussing this with the trade unions and the social partners, I think that the stakes are enormous and that everyone wants to find creative and original paths. We'll be partners. This allows me to make a transition and to address the issue of the political games that would have come from all sides. I don't think so. I would like to remind you that our group has an important wish, that of carrying out this reform properly, of working seriously, with a constructive dynamic. In any case, I think that is the case in this committee. I shall try to make sure that this area of consultation is properly used.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u26	Madam President, Minister, the big question that remains open is whether you spoke on behalf of the government or in your own name. If you spoke in the name of the government, it is not so pleasant considering your attack on Mr Lachaert and his proposals. I believe that you would be easier to work with Mrs Lanjri's CD&V than with Mr Van Peteghem's CD&V. If there's a change in government, you're a long way away. It is said here that you are embarrassing Parliament, but you have actually embarrassed the government, and that is even more punitive. After all, you did not put forward a specific proposal. You say you were discreet for 11 months. You don't want to be in the spotlights, except in September. You wanted to hijack the opening of the schools by luring the press to you at that time. After all, you were in the spotlights and not even a little bit. You were very discreet for 11 months. So discreet even that your colleagues in the government had not heard from you. On September 1st, you completely abandoned that discretion. You have addressed yourself to the press, but not to this institution. The Chamber will now, at the end of September, have the first chance to ask you questions. However, no answers have been given to these questions. You say that there was a cacophony of reactions, but that is not as difficult as information is available. You do not make serious information available to the public through, for example, Parliament on such calculations. Today we still don't know anything about that. You said everything was calculated by the Federal Retirement Service. You said two parameters weren't included in the calculations. I am particularly interested in which parameters were included in the calculations. We are not sure about that. You should not be surprised, therefore, that we are looking for the calculations and, above all, for the reasoning behind the calculations. That cacophony has caused you, not those who react. They have based themselves on the fringes of information made available. When you literally say that the Federal Planning Bureau and the Ageing Committee will be involved, this means that this is not the case yet and that you have not involved them in the exercise you are doing all of the past year. That is remarkable, especially when it comes to the Committee on Ageing. So I can only conclude that you did indeed work on an island, perhaps a larger island, but one that is still smaller than what it should have been. Really important stakeholders have apparently been taken by surprise by your intervention on 1 September. I am somewhat sorry that Open Vld does not interfere in the debate here, unless Mr De Block surprises us with a fantastic speech, but it seems to me, if I listen to the various majority parties, that on 1 September you did not get any closer to a solution, quite the contrary. You have not been able to convince us of the affordability of your proposals, because you have barely lifted a hint of the veil. In any case, you have not given the opportunity to check whether the bill of your exercise is correct. I'm rounding up. You said 2 euros extra per longer day worked. If I am not mistaken, it will come after 750 days of working longer, so 750 times 2, out of an additional EUR 1,500 pension. What about that calculation? I certainly hope that the government will not discourage it from working longer, which is crucial for the affordability of the system, but I fear that it will.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u27	Madam President, Minister, I thank you for your clarifications, which I hope will silence unnecessary and sterile controversy. In conclusion, on the subject of funding, our group can only welcome the attention paid to women in particular through the valuing of part-time work. My colleague Sophie Thémont, present here, had just tabled a bill to that effect. On the other hand, I would like to highlight some interesting data which were highlighted by Mrs Vanrobaeys earlier. Contrary to what many want us to believe, our public spending on social protection and in particular on pensions is lower than in our neighbouring countries. We're not too much of a spender. We could even be more. I'm not saying it, it's the National Bank of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u28	Minister, we have not learned much today. There's nothing more than what you've already announced to the press. Not everyone's been playing political games, let me tell you. I still see your ads. You are a minister in a government and I find that when we talk about citizens' trust, making announcements of reforms when it is only a working document, I do not believe that this is likely to restore confidence, because Mr. and Mrs. All-the-World believe it, rightly. When decisions are made, decisions that do not necessarily correspond, that will probably be the case, and that is always the case in a government, people will then be particularly disappointed and thus in breach of trust. In short, as far as we are concerned, we will follow you on these various points for this reform. Both the part of a pension that is worthy and not only the minimum pension, but also the valorisation of the work and the efforts it is about the replacement rate, support for career extension via the pension bonus, for example, but also in relation to feasibility. We will also follow you in particular with regard to the correction of inequalities and not only for women, but also for mixed careers and the harmonisation of statutes. We will also follow you in relation to the difficult jobs for correct and fair reform and consideration. This does not seem to me to be the case in what you are proposing today, since only those who would have started working at the age of 18 would have recognition and consideration of the difficult job. We are far from the social agreement between the social partners for the public sector in 2018. Finally, on the budgetary side, I must admit that you have not convinced me of its neutrality. [[You haven't demonstrated it at this stage.]] We'll see later. Let me tell you how important it is that we take into account the dimension of intergenerationality because societal cohesion also goes through it and that it cannot be a question for us to refer the bill of reform to our children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u29	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answers. First of all, the reform must ensure the sustainability of our pension system, make it more sustainable and fair, regardless of the status, civil servant, employee or self-employed. Secondly, the cost of the proposed reform must of course be taken into account in the budget tables drawn up when the government was set up. On the other hand, work must be recognised and rewarded, and it seems fairer to us to be able to justify at least 20 years of actual work in order to access the minimum pension. Finally, while the future reform must take into account the situation of women in order to overcome inequalities, it must also take into account the persistence of certain occupations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u30	I would like to respond briefly because Mr De Roover thought we did not care. For us, retirement is very important. It is a right to a pension, rights and obligations. A pension is built up by paying social contributions, hence the link with the number of years worked. A pension is important. We do not rule out the possibility that there are pro rata pension calculations. That's what happens to civil servants. People on a sickness pension receive a pro rata calculation of their pension. I've asked many specific questions before. What about the supplementary pension? What are the pillars of pension reform? I've always got a friendly answer, but no real answer to the point. I too regret that they first went to the press with a big interview and then to the Chamber. That's not how I used to work all the time. I have great respect for everyone, but first and foremost for the Chamber in which we were all elected. I understand that people are still hungry. Even after this mini-debate, I am left with more questions than answers. Madam Secretary, you've been given some time. It is right that this should be taken out of the budget debate, because that does not belong in it. You now have some time to consult a number of well-known partners, people with knowledge, such as the Ageing Committee and the social partners. They were all amazed that you didn't hear them or test them for what the pillars were. That surprised me of you, too. There is no agreement within the government yet, but it might be easy for the social partners to give an opinion on this first. We'll probably meet again around New Year's. The sooner, the better, because a whole year has passed. When discussing the policy paper, you said that trust is important. I do not know whether there is any confidence now that your proposals will become the real pension reform we are waiting for, because cherrypicking is being done and some Members here have more proposals. All this can be done in a larger discussion. However, I am still hungry in that respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u31	Madam Chair, first of all, I apologize for not being there to ask my question, but I listened carefully to the minister's answers. Madam Minister, we've known each other for a long time, and I tell you very kindly, it's still a little fun to hear you talk about the political games on this issue, when it's you who brought your reform to the public streets without the cooperation of your partners or the social partners. Having been silent a year before does not, I believe, allow enough dilute this playful aspect. I am the first to say that there are very good things in your project, especially the reduction of inequalities between men and women, but with your answers, we are still in the dark. It can be understood that it is not only the responsibility of the Minister of Pensions to assume responsibility for the economic context that may be favourable to raise pension rates. I expected more details for people. The postponement of the debate and the fact that we have to wait several months are not such as to reassure people or future pensioners. The budget cost should be quantified with concrete assumptions and not only with full career goals because it will not talk to everyone. I think if we don't, we're going to stay in false hopes. I give you a specific example. When you declare that the reduction in the pension amount following the choice of part-time will be compensated by a pension bonus, it would be interesting to be able to quantify this with examples. In short, it is rare for reform to bring more questions than answers. However, this is what your project produces as an effect to date. With all the benevolence of the world, I can't congratulate you yet, but it will surely come later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u32	I believe that this concludes the debate on a good conclusion: to bring the debates to Parliament so that they will then radiate in the media and not the other way round. That's obviously what everyone here seems to want.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u33	Madam Secretary, Belfius and Ethias announced on 18 June that they would no longer deal with the supplementary pensions of officials. However, they are employed as group insurers for the supplementary pension for the contractual employees of the local authorities. There are about 100,000 contractual employees in this group insurance and 850 local boards. They will not be alarmed by that message. Madam Secretary, did the government know this would be announced? If that is not the case, has there been consultation with Belfius and Ethias, but also with local authorities and within the government? Can that decision still be adjusted? If that is not the case, what consequences will this have for the members? I assume there are no consequences for the accumulated capital, but it is important to provide security. How will they be informed? What about the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u34	Following the decision of Ethias and Belfius to terminate, with effect from 1 January 2022, the group's insurance contract for a second pension pillar of local contract agents, I have only one question to ask: what are we going to do to get out of these difficulties? I would like to stress that this is not a supplementary pension but an essential supplementary pension for the staff concerned. They have worked a good part of their lives in the administrations, have the same treatment as those who are statutory and today they are at risk of receiving 40% less pension than the latter, according to the calculations we have been able to make in my own communal administration. Are you going to launch a public procurement to find a new organization capable of managing this situation? How and by whom will the established reserves now be managed? Our various municipalities have made reservations which are sometimes very important. In my commune, for example, we chose as much as possible for these agents. I still insist that there are communal finances, but there are agents who, if they fail to find a solution, will receive an unacceptable pension for workers. I know your social fiber, so I really count on your decisions so that we can, together, find a solution to this important problem for our communes and for our contract agents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u35	Without having really agreed, we had the same question. My colleague Josy Arens has put it very well, and I am not going to add anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u36	Madam Minister, Belfius and Ethias stated in a letter that they forgot the further management of supplementary pensions of nearly 100,000 contractual officials and 850 local authorities. This is the case for the undisputed assailant because a few years ago the insurance companies were still fighting among themselves to manage the pension fund. Madam Secretary, what is the reason for the breach of contract by Belfius and Ethias? Can they do this contractually, and what is the cancellation date? How large is the capital currently managed by the fund? What is the solvency ratio of the fund at the moment? Do you have a solution to this file? If so, what steps have you taken in the meantime?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u37	Madam Minister, I will not be redundant, but this framework contract has now been denounced by two public institutions which consider that the current interest rates are not sufficient to maintain the conditions stipulated in the contract. Current yields would not even cover inflation. Thus, a structural economic imbalance would have emerged between the parties' mutual rights and obligations. The current situation creates a feeling of legal uncertainty for the affiliates concerned. I would have wanted to know if you had met Belfius and Ethias in order to find ways to improve this situation and thus reassure the 100,000 contract workers involved in this announcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u38	Madam Minister, I had already questioned you in plenary some time ago. As the legislation currently stands, local authorities that have introduced a second pension pillar for their contract staff meeting the conditions laid down in article 20 of the Act of 24 October 2011 benefit from an incentive to reduce their liability contributions. Following the decision of June 2021 by Belfius and Ethias – this has been mentioned by my colleagues – to terminate the group insurance contract with effect from 1 January 2022, local authorities which are subject to this unilateral decision will hardly be able to be in order at the beginning of 2022 to benefit from the continuation of the incentive which was applied to them until then, as long as they were under the conditions of Article 20 or were in the process of complying with it. Minister, can you guarantee that there will be some flexibility in the application of the Federal Incitant mentioned above, by allowing local authorities not to be penalized if they have not been able to designate a new pension agency by 1 January 2022? Under what conditions will local authorities have to satisfy in order to benefit from this possible flexibility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, like you, I was surprised by the news of the cancellation of the contract of the Belfius-Ethias consortium. The insurers didn't consult me or my services. According to my information, they did not consult the municipalities either. This is regrettable because their decision has important consequences for the municipalities concerned. The framework contract provides for the possibility to terminate contracts every six years and insurers have now made use of this possibility. I would like to emphasise three things in this regard. The pension rights that have been built up so far are safe and secure. I also repeat in French, Mr Arens, to reassure the 100,000 workers: the pension rights accumulated so far are safe and guaranteed. There is no problem with workers. On 30 June 2021 it amounted to 425 million euros. The termination of the contract merely means that the insurer will no longer collect any new premiums from 1 January 2022. The premiums paid in the past continue to be covered by all guarantees. They shall continue to apply beyond 2022 until the staff concerned retire. There is no doubt about that. The practical challenge of the municipalities is now to appoint a new administrator for the contributions they will make from the year 2022. In fact, some municipalities had already taken the initiative to look for another pension institution and therefore no longer to use the consortium. That brings me to my second point. This is mainly a matter for the local authorities, since each municipality decides independently on the introduction of a supplementary pension and how it is to be managed. It has always been so. This does not mean that the municipalities are delivered to themselves. In the past, the government has played a supportive role in this area, including serving as a central purchasing authority. The federal government is prepared to continue to fulfil this role and to provide ongoing practical support to municipalities, at least to the extent that municipalities so request. Of course, it is not possible to replace the communes. In order to better understand the preferences of local governments, I have contacted the ministers of regional and community governments who are responsible for local governments. The Flemish government has informed me that the Flemish municipalities will no longer call for a possible federal tender and that they were already working on their own solution at that time. That's for Flanders. The other federated entities were more surprised and expressed interest in a possible federal initiative, but were not yet able to make a final decision. They are in fact waiting for the results of a market study of the associations of the cities and municipalities which is under way. Of course, I met with the representatives of the associations. This is not a decision that is taken lightly. I am convinced that, in cooperation with federated entities and local authorities, we will be able to ensure a proper transition to a new system. A study is therefore under way in Walloon towns and municipalities and in Brulocalis for the Brussels Region, whose results we expect. Flanders has decided to set up its own fund and join all its municipalities. I fully agree with Mr Bomblet that the local administrations which had entered into a second pillar contract should not and should not be victims of this situation. I will not allow them to lose their right to the federal incitant, since that is what you alluded to. I commissioned my services to develop a pragmatic solution for the year 2022. This solution consists of a declaration of honour in which the local authority confirms that the pension system will be continued - with a minimum contribution of 3% - and that it will conclude an agreement with a new pension agency in the course of 2022. This agreement will apply retroactively from 1 January 2022. We know that not everyone will find a contract by January 2022, especially since the Union of Cities and Municipalities has not yet returned to us and the Brussels Region is organizing itself to join all its communes. We are therefore waiting for the Walloon Region. But in this context, not all municipalities that make a declaration on honour will be sanctioned in relation to the positive incentives they receive today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u40	Madam President, Minister, it is important that you have stressed that pension rights are guaranteed. With the press release, as is often the case, a large number of clicks were sought, but that can cause quite a panic. The Flemish government itself has an arrangement for the cities and municipalities in Flanders. However, it is a good thing that the federal government will re-launch and support a group tender for other cities and municipalities that wish to do so. It demonstrates the importance of a good statutory pension. One is a bit the toy of insurance, even in this case, even though the capital remains guaranteed. It is equally important for citizens to be able to follow this closely on mypension.be if a supplementary pension is built up by different pension funds or insurance institutions. This way they keep the overview and know what they are entitled to when they reach retirement age.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answer. As a first step, you told me that pension rights would be guaranteed. This is essential, because many fears had been expressed on the part of the agents. In a second phase, you addressed the Walloon government – but, if I understood correctly, without having yet received an answer. Then, like me, you insist on the absence of sanctions against the municipalities that have joined the special contribution mechanism. It is also fundamental. Similarly, the Union des Villes et Communes has launched a survey of local representatives to find out what the municipalities want as a new mechanism. I therefore strongly stress the role that the federal government must play in ensuring that what I referred to earlier as an indispensable pension supplement for these officers is truly guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u42	The fact that Belfius and Ethias cancel the management of the consortium is their right. The economic reality is that, because of the very low and even negative interest rates on international markets, it is very difficult to guarantee a contractually imposed return, unless one wants to take risks and start gambling on the stock market. The low interest rates are of course not your responsibility, but the government will have to look into what it can do. What is happening now with this pension fund could also happen with many other pension funds, and then both the second and third pillars will be at risk and you will have to do everything you can to strengthen the 1st pillar of pensions. In this respect, we have not seen the least initiative in the government in the past year. We are very concerned about this development. Has an invitation to tender finally been issued? Who will stir up for the 3 % guaranteed return on capital?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u43	I thank the minister for her response. I mean that you want to support the municipalities affected by this change by fulfilling the role of purchasing centre in a cross-cutting way, since it depends on the regional and Community ministers. It is very important that the staff members concerned have their pensions guaranteed, as they will have to be contacted to reassure them, since they have questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u44	Your answers bring some oxygen to the local authorities. However, the relevance of this mechanism, which introduces a financial 'inciter' to reduce accountability fees, can still be questioned. Is it up to the local public authorities to finance an incentive to reduce a contribution? This problem also makes it possible to highlight the profitability of supplementary pensions. Indeed, the legislation provides that if the insurance return is lower than the statutory return (1.75%), the difference is borne by the employer. Given the context of very low interest rates for many years, consideration should be given to the desirability of revising the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u45	I share, Mr Bombled!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u46	I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u47	As I have explained, the fight against child poverty will be part of the plan against poverty and inequality. Kids are poor because their parents are poor. Inequality has only increased as a result of the crisis. That is why a global, strong and proactive approach is needed. Young people are our future. We must therefore invest in it. Good cooperation with the Länder, which are largely responsible for children's policy, is crucial. This applies to the poverty plan but also to the implementation of the European child guarantee which all Member States have approved. We must work together, both at home and with the Member States. Belgium will contribute constructively to the success of the child guarantee. On 10 June, for example, I attended an exchange of good practice between the Member States, on the initiative of the Portuguese Presidency and Unicef. As far as premiums are concerned, there are two important issues: the automatic allocation of rights and the non-take-up of rights. Both themes will be addressed in the poverty plan. We must make the application procedure as simple as possible and guide the most vulnerable groups. Initiatives such as the bridges and projects such as Miriam and Housing First demonstrate the importance of good guidance to address poverty sustainably. The reduction in investment in the growth package in Flanders is a special signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u48	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. The global fight against child poverty is a matter of great concern to all of us. We repeat that much more must be done to eliminate child poverty. After all, what often begins with child poverty, unfortunately ends in a life of misery. The situation in which they sit gives the children little or no opportunities, which at a young age results in, for example, learning retardation. A low level of training or no training results ultimately in a weak position on the labour market. Unfortunately, the unemployment figures are proof of this. The lower the level of training, the less chance of a job. So much more needs to be done to tackle the root problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u49	Dear colleague, the accessibility of pension cards is essential. In addition to increasing digitalization, physical accessibility is also essential, particularly for vulnerable groups. My principle is as follows:Digital by default but not digital only. The principle has also been followed with regard to the tax statement. We remove the paper when it is superfluous but only in this case. On this basis, the following persons still receive their paper form: pensioners who complete their tax return on paper, pensioners who do not receive a proposal for a simplified declaration and pensioners who live abroad. Since 2021, directors and widows and widowers have also been added to the file of their deceased spouse. Other pensioners who wish to have a paper card can apply for it free of charge, either online or by telephone. In this regard, we are making every effort to ensure that the threshold is as low as possible. The contact centre of the SFP can be reached via the free number 1765 and a special option menu has been set up for the tax slips. Citizens can also reach the SFP via the contact form on the website. In addition, on Saturday 25 June and Sunday 26 June in the morning, the call center of the SFP was exceptionally open to answer pensioners' questions on the tax slips. In 2021, approximately 98,000 tax cards were requested, which is significantly less than in 2020, where there were still more than 120,000 requests for information. The analysis of the questions received by the contact centre allows us to follow and, if necessary, adapt the system. The automatic sending of a paper card to widows and administrators, for example, from 2021 onwards, is an illustration of this. It is in fact following the analysis of the requests that had reached the call center that this is now done automatically. Indeed, in 2020, the contact centre had noticed that there was a greater need for certain categories of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u50	Madam Minister, thank you. I must understand your answer that the announcement made by the Pensions FPS was in fact linked to the exceptional context of the coronavirus. This was obviously a difficult situation during the health crisis. This was the reason for the end of the paper submission of the pension card. But in substance, it was not a temporary decision. In the meantime, it has become a final decision, whether or not there is - it is less clear - a link to the crisis of the coronavirus,. Compared to this, there is still a reality among seniors today: a significant digital divide. I understand that arrangements are being made to compensate for it. But seniors have to take a series of steps. We are talking a lot about the banks that are turning away from these citizens and it seems to me important that, on the public services side, particular attention should be paid to maintaining a public service in all its dimensions, including those who are not digitized or less able to use it. I have been contacted by various pensioners and will remain vigilant to ensure that the government guarantees this service of a public nature for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u51	Madam President, Minister, you know in the meantime that the fight against poverty is at the heart of my party. Because of the corona crisis, all the lights are on red, even dark red. There's urgent work to be done. You have recently awarded a grant to the Belgian Anti-Poverty Network. I have a number of questions about this. What amount was allocated to the BAPN? On what basis has the choice been made for BAPN and not for any other association active in the fight against poverty? What specific requirements were imposed on the use of this subsidy? What objectives have been set? What reporting is foreseen?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u52	Madam President, Mrs Samyn, the BAPN will receive a grant of EUR 235,000 to make people's voices in poverty heard in the federal fight against poverty. The BAPN has received a grant since 2012. It is important for this organisation to cover the four regional networks against poverty that allow people living in poverty to speak in their region. This grant will be used to ensure the participation of people in poverty in policy processes. The BAPN will provide specific policy recommendations and advice. In addition, BAPN will continue to monitor and report on the social consequences of the health crisis. These different forms of advice will also actively present BAPN on the Belgian Platform against Poverty and Social Exclusion. Every three months, the BAPN will present its work on a guidance committee. The BAPN is also expected to submit both substantive and financial final reports by 28 February 2022. This evaluation will form the basis for the justification of the costs incurred and the payment of the remaining subsidy amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u53	Madam Minister, it is a good thing that you grant subsidies to organisations that fight poverty. However, we find, not only in this dossier, that the way in which you grant subsidies to any organisation is wet fingering. We have already asked a lot of questions about subsidies you awarded in the context of poverty reduction, homeless care, food aid and so on. We also know from many other dossiers, although not yours, that it is sometimes completely wrong to grant subsidies. Some transparency in this area would be a sign of greater respect for democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u54	Madam Minister, there has been a huge increase in the number of people forced to call on the food banks due to the corona crisis. In the past, I have asked you a number of questions about this. The government has therefore rightly provided a great deal of additional resources to meet this need. The Council of Ministers of 24 June 2021 decided to extend the period of responsibility for food aid organised by the OMCWs. On the basis of which law, royal or ministerial decision are the OMCWs obliged to account for the use of these funds? Why should other beneficiaries of similar grants not justify themselves? Which OMCWs have benefited from these additional resources and for what amount? Which OMCWs have not submitted their justification within the given period?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u55	Ms Samyn, the checks are carried out in accordance with Articles 121 and 122 of the Law of 22 May 2003 on the organisation of the budget and the accounting of the Federal State. All grants awarded by the PPS Social Integration should be accounted for by all categories of right holders. The reporting conditions and deadlines are laid down in each grant decision. All the OMCWs in this country have received food aid funds. Three quarters of the amount was distributed on the basis of the number of wage-earners and the remaining quarter on the basis of the number of beneficiaries on an increased concession. For Antwerp it is 95,260 euros. More details can be found in the annex to the Royal Decree of 4 July 2021 on emergency food aid measures for the target group of users of the OMCWs. I cannot answer your last question because the deadline has been extended and is therefore still running. Above all, these technical data must not forget the importance of subsidies for those vulnerable people who want to fully support this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u56	I repeat, in part, what I said in my previous response: more transparency is needed in the use of public money. Apparently, there are OMCWs who do not consider it necessary to reply and account for the resources they receive within the set time limit. That's disgusting. As far as we are concerned, you should take even stricter action against this. If necessary, you should simply exclude them from further additional subsidies. Moreover, the funding of the OCMWs is no longer a federal competence. The fact that federal resources are being transferred runs counter to the state reform and the financial commitments that have been made. Divorcing federal money means that you have most of the account paid by the Flemings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u57	Madam Minister, a complaint often heard is that the collection industry is putting the people who are already struggling financially even deeper into trouble. The costs charged by collection services, bailiffs and lawyers for their services are extremely high and, in the case of smaller invoices, even the amount initially due. The consequences are often poignant and dehumanize the debtor. The result is depression, unable to work because often the car was seized, social isolation, private problems. Madam Minister, in the context of your global action plan to combat poverty, will you once and for all address the debt collection industry and go into this in consultation with your colleagues, the Ministers for Economic Affairs and Justice? Will you enter into consultation with the Regions and urge to extend the provision of debt intermediation services to the OMCWs? Which solutions are there that you can take in addition to solving this pressing problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u58	Mrs Samyn, of course we measure the extent of the debt problem. Our policy must certainly not be short-sighted and the problem must not be reduced to friendly and judicial recovery. We need to develop a holistic vision to stop debt mechanisms. The anti-poverty plan, which I will work on with my colleagues, will be based on that. They will be made aware of the challenges in their policy areas. I am thinking of Mr Dermagne, who is responsible for the collection agencies, and Mr Van Quickenborne for the costs of bailiffs. We will also consult with the Länder to join forces and work out solutions together. Moreover, in view of the increase in the number of debt mediation files from 35.260 in January 2020 to 44.772 in December 2020, I call for the revaluation of the Debt Mediation Fund, which should allow OCMWs to deploy more staff for this task, so that they can better help people with debt problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u59	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. As the corona crisis is coming to an end, financial aid to many individuals, self-employed persons and businesses is being stopped and payment is no longer delayed, a lot of unpaid invoices remain. Finally, everyone agrees that the collection costs are too high. I understand that you and your colleagues will work out an overall plan of action in this area, so that debtors do not go further into debt. We are counting on you to deal with this problem with your colleagues, because that too is the fight against poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u60	Shouldn't we join Mrs Reynaert's question that has just arrived? Indeed, it deals with the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u61	(...) (hors micro)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u62	So we're not joining her. There is a particular answer for Mrs Reynaert. Does everyone agree that this issue should be brought up just after the questions on the plan have been raised?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u63	Madam Secretary, you have said on several occasions in the committee that you would have liked to have driven your poverty plan through the government before the summer. Then I heard that we were going to get it in September: we are still two days in September, and I hope that the plan will be presented to us here and that we will not have to hear it in the press again. I'm curious about the progress. In De Morgen on Friday 2 July you already gave some details. You want to bet on the automatic allocation of the social rate on the telecom bill. For example, it would extend from 200,000 to no less than 900,000 families. Furthermore, we are told that you hope to make work from more intense guidance for parents in poverty to a job. These are good points in themselves, but if one thing has become clear after this corona crisis, it is that we need a strong and structural poverty reduction. The plan should therefore include much more and go much further than just these measures. How, for example, do we allow families to go to the doctor in poverty of chance? Many of these families say that they delay doctor visits because they weigh too heavily on their budget. The poverty specialists of the Belgian Anti-Poverty Network (BAPN), who will hopefully be closely involved in the expansion of the plan, have already made a number of points. The BAPN calls for the plans to raise minimum benefits to be adjusted so that they are actually lifted across the European poverty line. Then there is the need to review the status of cohabitants, which is impoverishing tens of thousands of people and, above all, affects women. The BAPN advocates that the new poverty plan of the federal government closes the gaps in social security. When will the plan be ready? What other structural measures do you include in the Poverty Plan? Will you significantly strengthen the OCMWFs? Are there any structural changes in social policy, so that more people have a faster right to social protection? How exactly will the federal government focus on the activation of parents in poverty? I think it's a regional authority. Did you make agreements with the ministers at the other levels of policy? Have you already discussed the Poverty Plan with the poverty groups? Finally, how do you intend, in the poverty plan, to ensure that people can go to the general practitioner for free? Many low-wage workers are not entitled to an increased allowance and therefore pay the full pot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u64	The questions raised by Mr Hedebouw and Ms Moscufo were irrelevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u65	Madam Minister, the report of the Council of Ministers of 16 July has already given us some idea of the content of the federal plan to combat poverty that you are working on. We quite rightly see that attention will be paid to the prevention of poverty, specific patterns of poverty among women and child poverty. However, we do not have a point. Poverty in the elderly is not the focus of your list of priorities. However, recent studies have shown us the very precarious situation of many older arms. Will you pay particular attention to their situation and propose measures in your anti-poverty plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u66	Given her absence, Mrs Merckx's question is irrelevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u67	Madam President, Minister, our country has recently faced two unprecedented crises: covid and floods. These two crises share the extreme fragility in which they plunged people who were already struggling to make ends meet, but also people who were not particularly struggling so far. Emergency measures have been put in place to ensure a final safety net for many citizens on the brink of the abyss. We now have to tackle the sources of structural poverty in order to prevent these disadvantaged citizens from being again the first victims of the crises. In this regard, I would like to highlight the important work you are undertaking in developing a federal plan to combat poverty and inequality. Minister, you announced that you had identified four areas of work but also four cross-cutting priorities. What are you doing today in the development of this plan? Given its cross-cutting nature, how do you ensure collaboration with other members of the government? Have you been able to consult with the actors on the ground in order to draw up a plan adapted to the realities of people in precarious situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the government agreement provides for the adoption of an ambitious plan. That's indispensable. Indeed, the numbers of poverty and inequality in our territory were worrying before the crisis. This crisis is not over, as you said, Mrs. Thémont, and the consequences of the floods are added. Given the period we are going through, we need a new tool. There is an urgent need for a broad and structural policy on poverty. In these times of profound change, such as climate change, digitalisation and so on, we must not leave anyone in the cold. Following the Government's decision of 16 July, as you recalled, the federal plan to combat poverty has entered an important preparatory phase. If you wish, Madam Chair, I can send you the framework note that has been accepted by the government, but I believe it is on the website. The work will be carried out in consultation with anti-poverty organizations and other stakeholders. Indeed, the plan will be built with the help of the actors on the ground gathered within the Belgian Platform for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, and in particular, the Belgian Anti-Poverty Network (BAPN), the Anti-Poverty Service and the CPAS federations will play an important role in the collection of data and policy options. Similarly, the network of civil servants active in the fight against poverty will provide proposals for action in all departments. I have already brought together all these partners to mark the work to be done in the coming weeks. It is therefore essentially the same process that was put in place for the disability plan, which was presented to you last week. Finally, an inter-ministerial conference will be organised to ensure the necessary cooperation. This involvement of everyone at all levels is very important to me. The plan must be transversal and cover all dimensions of government policy. Poverty, insecurity and social exclusion are problems with different facets and causes. The fight against this must therefore be fought on all these fronts. In concrete terms, my wish is to be able to definitively endorse this plan before the end of the year. With regard to the specific measures you are asking me about - for example, the health or poverty of the elderly - it is premature to respond to them, since the consultation must begin. I can tell you, however, that a careful reading of the last report of the Committee on Ageing tells us that the poverty of the elderly is decreasing, and thanks to the increase in the minimum pension, it will continue to decrease in the years to come. This is an achievement in the plan to combat poverty. However, I can tell you some of the projects that will be at the heart of the work: the automation of certain social tariffs and their extension to the beneficiaries of the increased intervention (BIM); a reflection on the individualisation of rights – I insist on the term reflection, since the individualisation of rights is not included in the government agreement; the fight against over-indebtedness; support for single-parent families; support for the return to employment – it is important – and access to health for all. This is at this stage a series of examples of actions that we will all have to carry out together. All areas of public action will be concerned. In order to ensure the effectiveness of the plan, the actors involved in the fight against poverty - and at the forefront of the CPAS - will have to benefit from the useful means to take an active part in the work. I will be careful to keep Parliament informed of the work under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u69	Madam President, Minister, I am once again eagerly looking forward to the poverty plan, like perhaps everyone else in the committee. I fully hope that the input of the poverty specialists of the Belgian Network against Poverty will be taken into account. I really hope that their input will be taken into account. This means, among other things, that the minimum benefits, which must be effectively raised above the European poverty line, and that a revision of the cohabitant's statute is definitely impoverishing tens of thousands of people and, above all, affecting many women. You know that better than I do. I would add that the full impact of the corona crisis is still underway. We will only now feel that impact effective. So there is and remains more money needed at the OCMWs. We notice that everywhere in the cities and municipalities. The federal financing of the living wage has to go up to one hundred percent. After all, an abrupt end to the support to the OCMWs is really not a good idea. As a federal approach is absolutely necessary, I am also looking forward to the agreements you have been able to make with your fellow ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u70	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I understand from the answer to my specific question that you do not yet have all the information available. I'm guessing the plan won't be for right away. However, it is a fact that the population is ageing strongly. Moreover, the number of older people will increase in the coming decades. The problem of poverty among older people will become more and more acute. It is therefore of the utmost importance that this group of people should not be forgotten. Our society cannot allow the elderly to be thrown away without looking back at them. Poor people and pensioners are probably not the hardest callers. They don't have a pressure group that stands up for them. They have little or almost no activity on social media and receive little attention in the press. However, we must not forget our older people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u71	It is true that poverty is a multidimensional phenomenon that requires a multisectoral response. It affects the right to education and mental and physical health, as well as sometimes access to housing. Only a cross-cutting approach could provide effective means to combat poverty. We need to strengthen our social protection system more than ever. There is also a need to step up the fight against the digital divide, which also creates inequalities in access to rights and particularly affects people in poverty. I will follow your plan carefully. If I understand correctly, you'll clarify the automation of social rates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u72	Minister, in the media you have already given some general lines of your new plan to combat poverty. A plan that aims, among other things, to link social rights to income rather than status. A very legitimate aim that should prevent people from losing their social benefits when they find a job. In addition, the fight against non-take-up becomes an important starting point of the new plan. A first necessary step in this fight against non-inclusion of social rights is poverty detection and outreach because of the OCMWs. Don't wait for people to come knocking in poverty, but proactively track them down and guide them in their own environment. The advent of a digital rights explorer, or a social wiki, as you announced on the webinar around non-take-up, can play an important role in this. Thanks to such a digital rights explorer, the non-take-up becomes immediately visible and, through the inclusion of these rights, the income of people in poverty can be increased in a short time and their spending reduced. In addition, I had further questions. What initiatives will you include in the poverty plan regarding support for OMCW's on "outreaching work'? How exactly do you see that in practice? Where is the deadline for the launch of the Digital Rights Explorer? Is the granting of additional support on the basis of reference budgets part of your plan? If so, when can OCMWs expect a tool to help them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, the concept paper of the poverty plan adopted by the Council of Ministers in July indeed contains measures and possible solutions to this problem: sensitisation, proactive detection, fighting against non-take-up. One of the actions I want to take is to encourage the OCMWs to proactively sensitise. How this should be implemented in concrete terms, I will consult with the OCMW federations and with my administration. The same applies to the social wiki, which is proposed by three administrations: Social Security, Social Integration and Pensions. This useful tool should contribute to a comprehensive, structured and systematic approach to the non-take-up of rights. The aim is a website that is accessible to everyone, visual, content in terms of language and so on, and which provides information on all social rights. The development of this website will have to take into account the specific needs of this vulnerable target group. The social wiki will in any case match the action against the non-take-up. I therefore call for a budget to be set aside for this important project. Beyond the action you mention, and this applies to all actions linked to the anti-poverty plan, the necessary resources will have to be made available. I am, of course, counting on your party's support for this. The tool for reference budgets is currently being prepared and discussed with the Finance Inspector, but it is not an easy discussion!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u74	I will respond to a number of elements in your reply. The outreach work is indeed very important. I am curious to see what the consultation with the OCMWs will bring, although I already have some suspicion about what will be said. I myself am chairman of an OCMW, and I know that the bridge figures - the neighborhood worker - make a huge difference, alongside the social assistants who really handle the files. It is also in the coalition agreement, so I hope it will have a clear place in your poverty plan. The digital rights explorer also seems to me to be a very important project. I understand there's still a budget to be found. It would be nice if that could happen. There are already a number of examples of this in Flanders but it is necessary to update. Finally, for the tool for reference budgets, money has been released, which is a good start. I'm glad you're giving political attention to that file. Public procurement must, of course, be carried out correctly, but it is good that the dossier is receiving political attention so that it progresses with due urgency and we do not have to wait too long for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u75	Yeah, it's before the beginning of 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u76	Question No 550198117C by Mr Colebunders is irrelevant since it has already been the subject of a written answer... But did the minister still have another answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u77	(...) Then I will turn my question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u78	Madam President, I am sorry, but for this one, I am not going to refer to my written question. It has been attached to quite different subjects, it seems to me. Mine is specifically concerned with the penitibility and recognition of this penitibility for nurses. Madam Minister, I had already mentioned earlier during the debate on pensions that the 42-year-old career condition for access to early retirement pension at 60, without any special provision for jobs in need, sets aside any possible opening on the recognition of the penitibility of the nursing profession but not only. However, if I come back to this point, it is because of the extremely difficult situation on the ground for nurses. This is all the more true since this occupation is in short supply, since they have been under maximum pressure for a year and a half following the crisis of the covid which has only increased their workload. A number of them were also sadly affected by the disease or the absence of colleagues, which only made things worse. You'll understand it easily. The area is angry. That's the least we can say. On several occasions there have been promises of recognition of the penitibility of their profession. This has never been translated into action. My questions are therefore very clear. They concern the Minister of Health, but you too, and I would like to avoid a referral between you two. Is there ongoing consultation with nurses' representatives on the recognition of their profession's penitibility? Is there any consultation with the Minister of Health on this particular issue? And on your side, are there any openings and concrete answers that can be given to this sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you point out in your questions, talking about pensions without talking about work makes no sense. One does not go without the other and it is for this reason that, in accordance with the pension reform, I am working with the Minister of Employment but also with the Ministers of Social Affairs and Finance on the tax side. This link between employment and pension can be found even in terms of terminology. Thus, as you know, the pre-pension scheme that you refer to in your questions, Mr. Colebunders and Mrs. Moscufo, is an end-of-career scheme, with the receipt of an unemployment benefit, not a pension scheme. Labour market and pension schemes should not be confused. As regards these aspects, I would therefore ask you to ask your questions to the competent minister. I can't rule on pre-pensions. That's the framework. Now for the content. Indeed, it is unfair that the number of career years for early retirement varies today according to age. This discriminates against people who start working early and usually have a heavier occupation. Therefore, this is one of the most important measures of my reform proposal, the same conditions for everyone to retire early, namely after 42 career years. Mrs Fonck, we are indeed in consultation with Mr Frank Vandenbroucke. Frank Vandenbroucke has launched a consultation with the nurses and the social partners with a view to keeping their careers workable and attractive. We are working on the entire career with the Minister of Employment. But as you said, this does not solve the problems of the current workers. Therefore, with Mr. Vandenbroucke, we are working on the people who are currently working, and more specifically on nurses. We continue to work together and I am not going to make any particular announcement here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u80	You mentioned the possibility of early retirement after 42 years of work, and you said that is the fairest thing for everyone. However, I do not think that is true. Not everyone has received the same backpack and not everyone has crossed their career with the same backpack. We are talking about 6,000 workers who can retire early at the age of 60. What about all the other people? Don't they have a lot of hard jobs? They'll have to hold out until they're 65. A nurse in a retirement home who studied until her 24th and then had to work for 42 years will have to take care of people younger than her. Where's your sense of reality? I don't see anything in your plan about such cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u81	You have not answered my questions, Madam Secretary. I'll file them in writing. A lot of questions are being asked about pensions. The issue is therefore close to the heart of the committee members. I myself miss the long debates we had at the beginning of the government period, for example on the affordability of pensions, and the hearings. They were very useful. It would be good if we did something similar again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u82	Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to urge you again. Indeed, all work must be done on the attractiveness of the nursing profession. I am thinking of the issue of pay, overtime, supervisory standards, recognition of specializations, etc. But it is also a question – this is the sector's first urgent and urgent demand – of recognition of penitibility and therefore of ad hoc pension measures. In your reform, however, the scheme for the right to a pension from the age of 60, provided that you have a career of 42 years, excludes de facto caregivers and nurses. So let me insist. Everyone applauded the carers. But today we have the impression that everything that has happened is very far away. I know you're aware of their experiences. But maybe you should get back in touch with them because, obviously, the message didn't get you well. There were many statements, particularly during the election campaign. All this seems far away. Many promises have been made. Strong action must now be taken for this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u83	Madam President, Minister, this is a very specific question, which I am asking because I received it from a non-small OCMW. After all, it would be a strange evolution if it were true. Urgent medical attention knows everyone and is something I support for the sake of clarity. According to the regulations, the OMCWs are partially reimbursed for urgent medical assistance through the POD MI. There is a condition for this, namely that it should be a matter of concern in the RIZIV nomenclature. That makes sense in itself. The only question lies in that too. We have learned that since 2021, the payment of the Global Medical Dossier for persons without legal residence would no longer be covered by the RIZIV nomenclature, which means that it will no longer be refunded to OCMWs, while we are now of the opinion that people residing illegally in the country can also have a health benefit when having an GMD. This also avoids other problems, which are sometimes caused by urgent medical attention. Is that right? If yes, do you not think it would be a good idea to reintegrate the GMD into that nomenclature?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u84	Madam President, Ms Van Peel, before the amendment of 1 January 2021, the GMD was indeed invoiced and included in the RIZIV nomenclature. Since then, the files under the GMD have followed a new procedure, of which I will save you the details in the context of the current oral question. In other words, according to the national agreement medical funds follow a separate circuit of the GMD and the numbers of the nomenclature have been deleted. My administration is currently examining the possibilities of re-establishing a refund of the GMD. This is a fundamental right for people without legal residence. The GMD can contribute to a better health policy and prevention. All this benefits society as a whole. So it's a good thing. So I and my administration will find solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u85	Madam Secretary, this is an unintended consequence of another decision. I'm glad you're recording this. I am glad that something can still be achieved from the opposition. I would like to take this opportunity to ask colleagues to sometimes forget the majority opposition story in some cases. I just got another message. That's why I'm saying this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u86	Madam Secretary, you have just launched the new functionalities of the MyPension website. Recently, employees have been able to calculate more accurately the impact of their career choices on their pension through this website. In this way, employees can make well-thought-out choices and face fewer surprises when they retire. This is crucial, because people often do not consider that certain choices, such as taking parental leave or career break, can have an impact on their retirement age or sometimes on the pension amount. That is already an important step in the right direction. But I'm still hungry. These new functionalities are only available for employees, not self-employed and civil servants. In addition, MyPension now only takes into account working time and the number of days that one would work less or more. Any additional social benefit or longer periods of unemployment, sickness, disability, the inclusion of time credits, etc. are not yet included in MyPension. In January, I asked you to work together with the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Self-employed persons on an integrated career planning system, including mycareer, so that employees and civil servants can also understand the consequences of their career choices on the building up of certain pension rights, career breaks, time credits, unemployment, illness, disability, training, etc. I also pointed out in May that the survivor's pension is currently not included in MyPension. That gives a distorted image: you don't get to see everything you're entitled to. Sometimes the amount is lower or higher than what you are actually entitled to. Why do these new functionalities apply only to employees and not yet to civil servants and self-employed people? Why are these supplementary social benefits and periods of unemployment, illness and so on not yet included in MyPension? When will these future reforms take place? What functionalities do you consider to be a priority? Are you going to integrate that with mycareer? Do you see other possibilities pending a well-functioning MyPension system? Can people who cannot go to MyPension today, because there are certain elements that cannot be inserted there, for example, call the pension service or e-mail to ask what the effect is on their pension if, for example, they take leave without a wager or time credit?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u87	Thanks to the new function, My Pension becomes an increasingly important tool to organise the career. Now the impact of the professional choice on your pension can also be monitored. It is important to give people more confidence in their pension. The simulations on My Pension are indeed primarily for employees. The Federal Pension Service only has the information of the employees and officials. The data of the self-employed are at the National Institute for Social Insurance of Self-employed Persons. Simulations will be improved step by step and opened up to other statutes. A first step is to integrate the civil servants. In the long term, the self-employed will also be integrated. The simulations we have now integrated are a first step in the right direction. The simulation tools will be evaluated and optimized in the coming months. It would indeed be better if we could extend the simulation to other supplementary social benefits, such as unemployment, disability, illness, inclusion of time credits and so on. However, this is a step-by-step approach. In order to integrate the necessary data, a great deal of additional data is needed from the National Employment Service. The planned pension reforms will also lead to further major changes. The My Pension team gives priority to updating existing functionalities based on pension reforms. Afterwards, the new functionalities will come into play. My goal is to give all people, young and old, the confidence in their pension and to give a clear picture of how high the pension is and what the impact of career choices is. Pending the fully integrated My Pension system, we will make citizens as much aware as possible of the impact on their pension through press articles, FAQs, the website, video and so on. The Federal Pension Service is not intended to calculate the impact of time credit or thematic leave. If citizens call the pension service infoline, the competent staff can refer them to the RVA.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u88	Madam Minister, I believe that an essential element of the pension reform is a good website so that people are effectively aware of what they already have in their portfolio. People are supposed to know the effect of part-time work on their pensions. People need to know what effect two years' leave without betting will have on their pension. People are not sufficiently aware of all this and think they can retire at 65 years. Often people don't realize the effect on the pension amount either. All this underlines the importance of a well-functioning website. I understand that not everything can be solved at the same time. We have all the information on the officials. We can also retrieve the data from the self-employed. This way people can see the consequences of certain choices. I regret that the pension service cannot provide this information via its website or by telephone. People are being referred to the RVA. I hope the RVA will be able to handle all these questions. However, it is important to raise awareness and inform people about the consequences of certain decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u89	Ms. Fonck, FPS Finance is based on the analysis of the Federal Pension Service (FPS). The Act of 15 June 2020 is not an interpretative law since it grants a supplement in the form of a new calculation of the pension. The supplement is the difference between the old calculation and the new one, but it is one and the same taxable pension in full. It is therefore not an error of interpretation but a new additional duty that has been granted. The Social Insurance Charter provides for late interest four months after the date of creation of a new right, four months after the law of 15 June 2020. By royal decree, given the number of cases that were to be recalculated as a result of this law – more than 13,000 – the deadline was increased to eight months. Therefore, there are only the last cases awarded beyond February 15 for which an interest in delay could be granted. The law provides that it is a recalculation of a pension and not an allowance/compensation for health damage. I cannot provide you with the professional discount amounts because these are the powers of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u90	Minister, it seems to me that there is a communication problem. This may date back to the time when important communications were made to the persons concerned, pensioners and the families of basic minors. I will see this again in connection with the ASBL KS Vriendenkring. As far as professional prepayment is concerned, you're sending me back to the Minister of Finance. In some cases, the government says it is one and united and can speak for each other. In others, when it does not work, each of its members expresses "its piece". Of which act. I will rest the question with the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u91	Madam Minister, 16 billion euros are not included in the social security funds. Due to the lack of social security contributions in a range of jobs and extra-legal benefits, such as student jobs, meal vouchers, platform economy and flexi-jobs. For the employer, these advantageous formulas guarantee some flexibility. But for workers, these extra-legal jobs and benefits often hide the fact that they do not accumulate any rights, and therefore no social protection in return. Students, for example, are particularly exposed to market risks and fluctuations, while many rely on income from their jobs. Minister, the pandemic has highlighted the importance of social security and protection to enable all workers to cope with the risks of employment. When we know that the average age of the first CDI on the labour market in Belgium is 27 years, it becomes urgent to find new ways of thinking in order to avoid the precarisation of our fellow citizens. I would like here to welcome your wish, together with Minister Dermagne, to take the work of young people better into account, by accounting for the working days carried out under flexi-jobs contracts, student job, internship, or otherwise in calculating the pension. With Ministers Dermagne and Vandenbroucke, do you also intend to start thinking about improving the social protection of young workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u92	Dear colleague, it is true that the financing of social security is eroded by all sorts of exceptions to the general system of contributions. According to the economic outlook of the Plan Office, contribution reductions and wage subsidies for employers amounted to no less than €16.8 billion in 2020. The Plan Office expects this cost to increase further to €18 billion in 2021 and close to €21 billion in 2026. A little less than EUR 4 billion of this amount results from the unfunded reduction of the facial contribution rate from 32.4% to 25% under the Michel government tax-shift. These are indeed huge sums. We are talking about about 3.7% of GDP. When looking for finance for social security... Moreover, these favours to employers are often borne by the employee who often does not accumulate social rights on all or part of his salary. These are, for example, professional internships. I would put student jobs on the side, because the question is more sensitive, and it's a different logic. But in any case there are job placements, workers in the platform economy, flexi-jobs, training etc. As you rightly point out, it is often young people who find themselves in these contracts, with the result that the age at which they begin to accumulate pension rights and other social rights increases systematically. Of course, this has negative consequences for the young people in question. According to the figures I received from Sigedis, about 30% of current 35-year-old workers did not earn pension rights before age 25. This proportion has almost tripled in 30 years. I therefore intend, together with the Minister of Employment and the Minister of Social Affairs, to examine how we can offer better social protection to young people in precarious or so-called "small jobs" at the beginning of their careers. There can be no question of waiting for young people to work longer to be entitled to a pension, whereas at the same time they often do not accumulate social rights or earn insufficient rights for periods worked at the beginning of a career. Examples were given earlier. Of course, this also means that a critical analysis must be made of the existing reductions in social contributions for these non-standard statutes and forms of work. After all, good social protection goes hand in hand with properly funded social security. As usual, I hope that I can count on Parliament to bring this matter forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u93	Of course. We talked about it earlier when you answered a few questions. As you say, we will have to look at the best social protection, in any case for young people. I'm still coming back a little bit on the job people. I think they should also be given some security. It is not logical that for the same work, a student can be more easily dismissed without compensation than a person who has a contract of employment. Student work is still real work. It is therefore necessary to open the debate on the integration of job-seekers into the benefits of social security. Creative and supportive mechanisms could be devised to extend social protection to these young student workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u94	Madam President, given the incredibly comprehensive answers the Minister always gives to all the questions, I propose that my next five questions be converted into written questions. These are questions that I asked in the debate but which the Minister said she could not answer yet and that she would deal with them in this committee. In order not to make the committee's work more complicated, it is good for me if I can get the written answers. After all, we have already taken a global approach to the debate. Can we do that? Then I'll do it like this and leave my questions to me. Convert 55021039C, 55021041C, 55021043C, 55021044C, and 55021045C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u95	Madam President, I have seen that a number of questions were answered last week and I have seen that Mrs Van Peel has retabled a number of other questions. I don't want us to do any double work. So if I can also get a written answer, I put my question. 55021121C in a written question. There was no reply in the debate, but I would be happy to receive it in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u96	Questions Nos 55021039C, 55021041C, 55021043C, 55021044C and 55021045C by Ms Van Peel and question No 55021121C by Ms Lanjri are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u97	Madam President, Minister, the recent floods have plunged a whole series of families into significant material difficulties. A momentum of solidarity has quickly been set up to enable our most affected citizens to support themselves. I would also like to thank once again all the volunteer citizens and relief services who have mobilized to help the victims. Minister, you have also mobilized during this difficult time. You soon released a EUR 1 million subsidy for the Red Cross. You have also taken the initiative to release an emergency subsidy of €20 million that will be distributed to disaster victims via the CPAS of the affected municipalities. Minister, this €20 million aid is distributed by the CPAS according to the individual circumstances of each beneficiary. Could you give us more information about the criteria used to identify those eligible for this emergency aid? Could you also tell us whether this amount of EUR 20 million has already been fully distributed and how this subsidy has been allocated to the CPAS?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u98	Madam Minister, at the end of August, you announced an additional EUR 20 million to be allocated to the OMCWs of the municipalities affected by the floods. As I understand, the first 10 million euros was distributed to the OCMWs on the basis of a preliminary calculation of the number of households affected in the municipality. In this context, you drew up a list of more than 160 municipalities, both in Wallonia and Flanders. For 31 municipalities, this amounts to roughly more than 100,000 euros. Verviers, the most affected municipality, received an allowance of 950,000 euros. It is and remains very important to support citizens in the affected areas. In doing so, it is of the utmost importance that the resources be made available to those affected and therefore used effectively. Do all affected municipalities benefit from the additional support? Are there any municipalities that have not yet received support or very little support? If so, how come? Why do the OMCWs of the affected municipalities intervene most often? Can you give the 5 most common types of aid applications? How many households have all been helped by these support measures? How much euro does a household receive on average?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, while the crisis was barely entering its lull phase, much of our country has been hit hard by unprecedented floods. The human and material record is enormous, as I was able to see during one of my visits to some affected communes. Some CPAS have also been hit hard by these floods. I would like to take this opportunity once again to welcome the proactivity of the field teams, already heavily tested by the management of the health crisis, to continue their social assistance mission. Together with the federated entities that are primarily involved in this matter and taking into account the scale of the disaster, I immediately proposed to the federal government to mobilize alongside these affected citizens so that the poorest of them could have the exceptional support of the CPAS as soon as possible, either in material aid or in financial aid. For example, a budget of €20 million has been released. The allocation of the first tranche of 10 million already paid to the CPAS on 27 August was made on the basis of an estimate of the number of victims per municipality, made by the latter and approved by the Governors. The second tranche will be drawn up on the basis of the final figures and with greater attention to the most affected municipalities. The award criteria were included in the circular. The measures are aimed at anyone who is in need, and therefore not just the beneficiaries of social assistance and the right to social integration. Assistance can take several forms: material, psychological, medical or other. It's really according to the needs of the people affected. In the same circular, I also stressed the importance of some flexibility in a very light social survey given the very exceptional circumstances. It is not we who have decided on the number of victims per municipality. It was based on Flemish and Walloon decrees and then the governors took the count. They had to do it for other funds. It was on this basis that the federal government divided the first tranche of subsidies. To answer your question, Mr Colebunders, it is too early to have an overview of how the OMCWs use the subsidies received. As you know, we are talking about very recent measures. As I said, it is about providing the most appropriate help to the people who need it. For example, the purchase of food, basic products, hygienic products, furniture, household appliances, rental costs, psychological support, medical costs, etc. It is therefore an exceptionally flexible measure, tailored to the people who, unfortunately, are still in a terrible situation as a result of the floods.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u100	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. While these floods do not only affect vulnerable households, it must be noted that, once again, those who are now facing too low incomes are the main victims of this disaster. I wanted to stress again your mobilization but also your proactivity to react quickly and take quick devices. It is true that the human balance sheet is catastrophic and beyond that, it is now whole families that are without anything. For seeing you several times in the field, I wanted to emphasize the work you are doing with these people and the support you are systematically providing to CPAS. As has been said, people will need equipment as needed. Finally, as you have done in other projects, I would also like to highlight the reduction in the social survey you have put in place so that beneficiaries can have what they need more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u101	Madam Minister, you may have released money, but I do not really know what has actually happened to the people. From the first day I accompany a part of the solidary teams from Limburg in Wallonia. We are now two months ahead and every day our teams, both the technical support and those who take care of food, come back with reports from people who don't even know it. I know that you are sensitive to that, but can you imagine that at the moment there are people in Belgium waiting for the soup that is being distributed by us or for them to have no food on that day? We must even inform these people about how they can reach the OMCWs and whether or not they will be entitled to a small sum to survive. You can't do that anymore. It's like a war zone out there. I won't wait long for this file. I hope that we can quickly get figures, because winter is at the door and the first frost period will not be long. I hope that we will be able to make sure that the money actually reaches the people and that it is not just a budget that could be used up, but where we are not sure whether it will.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u102	Madam President, Minister, in April 2021 you announced that in the short term you would reform the IGO controls in a number of areas. We have heard of a abolition for the I was shocked that they were still checked in advance. However, there are also customized rules for staying abroad. Departure and arrival no longer count. There is the maximum of twenty-nine days and there are also short stays under 48 hours. Not every year and at least eighty percent of the target group would be monitored according to the plan. At the same time, you extended the corona suspension of the IGO controls until the end of June 2021. You indicated that the social partners would develop a whole new control system. I have a few questions. What is the timing of these reforms in the short and medium term? At the time of submitting my question, I did not realize that there was a suspension of the checks until the end of September 2021. Will you extend that term? Why not extend the number of days abroad to 90, as is already the case with IVT? Does the control procedure also change for homeless people and homeless people? The 80% control quota is hereby abolished. What exact percentage will replace or delete the quota in full? Will you still use postmen for the IGO controls in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u103	The control of IGA beneficiaries is part of the coalition agreement. The necessary steps are taken in this regard. The dossier is on the government table today and will also be further discussed with the actors in the field. The checks have not been restarted today. The charging of specific situations such as homeless people and homeless people is also included in this ongoing discussion, as is the number of days that one can stay abroad. The quota was completely abolished. This means that the FPD itself takes control of the control procedure. The KB to implement this is ready. The mailman has no controlling role. I will not go from this, neither myself nor Mrs De Sutter, nor the postmen want to continue to treat these beneficiaries as they were treated with the existing control mechanisms. It must and will be more human. We'll keep checking, but in a more focused way. We'll keep you posted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u104	Madam Minister, in a targeted way, I would like to get a picture of what you have in mind. You have announced some interesting changes here, but of course interesting is not enough. For us, it is clear that this type of control must be completely removed. I think you've only made a contribution here to the postmen. But as far as the adjustments themselves are concerned, of course, it is important to implement them effectively now. We have discussed this here a long time ago and quickly. Older people with IGO benefits do not benefit from the uncertainty that persists. If the controls are not effectively suspended and the old rules are re-established, I do not think anyone is waiting for them. I also want clear timing for the long-term reforms. I don't think I got an answer. Are you still going to suspend those checks until the end of September, or will that deadline be extended?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u105	We don't know yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u106	End of September, that's two days? Bon, it's gonna be me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u107	Madam Minister, under your predecessor, PPS Social Integration started with the evaluation of the individualised project for social integration (GPMI) with the help of the research agency Tempera. The PVDA is not in favour of imposing unfeasible conditions on wage-earners. This does not help them at all in terms of work, living and relationships. The approach also differs widely from municipality to municipality and is therefore difficult to control. A serious debate on this is therefore urgent and important. At the beginning of June, you told me to expect the evaluation report in September. Is the report ready by now? When will Parliament be able to go through it? Could your cabinet have looked into the report? If yes, what conclusions do the investigation draw?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u108	In the meantime, Mr Colebunders, I have received the final version of the final report of the evaluation. It's fresh from the press. I suggest that you give my cabinet and myself time to thoroughly analyse it, so that I can explain the results shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u109	Will this also happen before 1 October? 'Cause then you're gonna be very busy. I say this with some sarcasm, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u110	After the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u111	Oh, it's gonna take a while. In the meantime, you have understood that I am looking forward to this report, because the approach of the GPMI leaves something to be desired and requires adjustments, if it is not an unnecessary instrument. I look forward to the evaluation report. I will certainly come back to this. I also think that we, as a committee, should work together on this, for example on the basis of a comprehensive explanation from the Minister or the POD MI.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u112	Madam Minister, in your policy paper, you and your colleagues in the government said you wanted to ensure greater use of experience experts in poverty. That's something that's very close to both of us. These are people who have had setbacks in life but who have learned to process their experiences and who are committed to the benefit of their peers. So, what's going on? Their input is a third source of knowledge about poverty and poverty reduction, alongside that of social scientists and experienced social workers. Almost a year ago, your colleague, Minister De Sutter, reported that 44 experienced experts were employed by the federal government, 20 of them at the PPS Social Integration itself. You yourself pointed out that the federal government would also use experience experts in its new projects on access to health care. You could also take a look at some other slopes with your colleague in Civil Service and Public Enterprises. It is now clear that the Flemish Government has withdrawn some of its training courses. I asked a question about this at the end of last year. I wonder how many experience experts the federal government is now deploying. Will this number increase in the coming period? If so, in what areas? Which federal government institutions will this be the case? And what will the federal government do if in the near future no more experience experts graduate through Flemish policy, to fill in an increasing number of jobs? Are you taking this problem with you to the interministerial level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u113	In July 2021, 48 experience experts were seconded to or employed by the partner organisation and administration. The service is financed by four sources. The FPS Finance and the RVA employ experienced experts from their own resources. The RIZIV finances a project on the accessibility of healthcare under the management of the POD Social Integration. The PPS Social Integration employs experience experts to send them to other services. In 2020 91 signals on access to basic social rights were sent. These demonstrate the importance of this service which exploits the experience of people who have experienced poverty themselves in order to improve access to public services. Hopefully we can expand this system, especially within the OMCWs, where this approach will be particularly valuable. There are other ideas to use experience experts, such as the FPS Foreign Affairs, the FPS Justice, the Federal Police and the FPS Mobility and Transport. I will examine these and other proposals with my colleagues from the government. I am also aware of the problems involved in the training of experience experts in Flanders. This is the result of a policy choice at a different level of competence. However, I will certainly raise the issue at the next Inter-Ministerial Conference. However, experience experts receive specific training for their duties after they have been recruited. They remain in the service of the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u114	Madam Minister, I remember that you have a lot of good intentions and that you really want to do something about it, but you are always being held back by Flanders. I'm sorry to hear that. For the good work we want to do here, we are partly dependent on the Regions. That's another Belgian disease. The federal government wants to focus on employing trained experience experts in poverty, but the Flemish government, in this case Ben Weyts, cuts the training. We have talked about this a few times. People leave in the last year of their education. That's absolutely not done. I hope you will speak with your Flemish colleague. That, by the way, is Wouter Beke from CD&V, a party colleague of some of your colleagues in the government. I expect you to work out a common solution to this problem within the framework of the poverty plan, within time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u115	Minister, there was a small encoding problem. I would therefore like to thank your colleagues who have surely had to mobilize energy to answer my questions. Given the late hour, would you like me to exempt you from reading these answers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u116	No problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u117	So I will turn all my questions, except the last, into written questions. Questions Nos 55021241C, 55021242C and 55021244C by Marie-Colline Leroy are therefore transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u118	Minister, the issue of access to culture is of particular concern to our group. We believe that the climate and social transition requires the investment of everyone in order to be able to build and emancipate themselves. For this reason, it is essential to ensure access to cultural rights for as many people as possible – and, a fortiori, for disadvantaged audiences. I know you're particularly sensitive to it. In Belgium, there are different alliances and possibilities for CPAS to build projects and actions supporting users in the practice of culture or in its access. I would therefore like to hear from you about the existing arrangements and the regulation of them, as well as about the budgets devoted to them and their accessibility for CPAS. Also, is there a census of cultural initiatives that co-construct with them? Finally, if we want to ensure a fair climate and social transition, we must ensure that these alliances between culture and CPAS can be thought out in a sustainable vision. Thus, we consider it essential to focus on projects and actions that are sustainable, not exclusively on issues of cultural consumption. Therefore, Madam Minister, my question will seem very broad to you, but I would like to know whether your government is working on the various mechanisms and their evaluation to ensure their adaptation and, if so, to better integrate them into climate ambitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u119	CPAS do have the possibility to contribute to the culture of the most vulnerable via the annual subsidy 'participation and social activation' and in particular via the collective modules. As part of this grant, CPAS are free to provide partnerships with sustainable cultural or other associations. The freedom and autonomy of CPAS are recognized by Organic Law as part of the circular's order. In addition, you know that culture is not a federal responsibility, and it is not the primary mission of CPAS. I cannot tell you any more or make an entire assessment of the subsidy 'participation and social activation', which would be very heavy for my administration when it cannot act on the individual actions of the CPAS. I propose that you ask your colleagues on the Social Action Councils questions to see what dynamics they are putting in place, because they are very different from one CPAS to another.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic587x.u120	It wasn't a trick question, it was a real question. Given the situation in which we find ourselves and the difficult cultural revival, one question concerns us: how will we fulfil our priority mission of cultural democratisation and ensure that the return and access to culture are not once again the poor child of people in precarious situations who face difficulties in returning to them? Indeed, we would like to work with you and the CPAS to see how to activate consultation through social cohesion plans and cultural centres. We know that CPAS will also have a role to play. We think that at the federal level, we could be actors in this dynamic, which is not simple. I will consult, as you advise me, this plan of participation and social activation to see how we can try to find synergies. I know, however, that this is going to be complicated.
