ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u1	Colleagues, Mr. Delizée contacted me to ask his question before the others. No one sees any objection? [[(Non]] [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u2	Mr President, for once, I will not criticise the fact that one refers to the text of a question, because I am a little familiar with the debate which concerns Mr Delizée. Some measures have already been taken, taking into account the difficulties that could be faced by smaller hospitals. The geographical derogations, to which the Fagne Health Centre in Chimay is entitled, have been granted by the Walloon Region with a view to ensuring the financing of a minimum number of justified beds, ten for maternity and fifteen for paediatrics respectively. As far as emergencies are concerned, Article 46(3)(b) of the Royal Decree of 25 April 2002 provides that if the hospital is approved, either for the function of first emergency care or for the specialized emergency care function, a minimum of 15 points per hospital shall be provided for only one of the two functions. In addition, if this hospital fulfils conditions related to its geographical location and size, i.e. it is located at least 25 km from another hospital with an approved specialized emergency care function and has a maximum of 200 approved beds, this number of points is increased to thirty. The Centre de santé des Fagnes de Chimay benefits from these derogations, because of its specificity as a geographically isolated hospital of less than 200 beds. It also seems to me appropriate to recall that section 125 of the Hospitals Act provides that the deficit in the public hospital must be borne by the subordinate public authorities. However, I am sensitive to the difficulties that the Chimay Fagne Health Centre may face. The measures currently being implemented through the reform of the hospital landscape must be able to respond to some of these difficulties. Indeed, the establishment of the network of hospitals initiated by my predecessor must enable the Fagne Health Centre, through collaboration with one or more hospitals from the same network, to strengthen or consolidate activities according to needs, while ensuring the maintenance and/or improvement of the quality of care, through a more rational organization of the provision of care. I can only encourage hospital facilities, especially the Chimay Fagnes Health Centre, to implement these care collaborations quickly. The viability of small hospitals may therefore require specific attention as part of a more comprehensive reflection on network-level funding. To respond to your request that medical fees for emergencies be less funded according to the activities or size of the hospital and more via a permanence fee, I can tell you that this question will be analysed as part of the nomenclature reform. In addition, the legal basis for extending permanency fees is reflected in the various provisions that have just been discussed in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. It's not a problem since yesterday. You know him well, for having been confronted with him in an earlier life. Today, this problem is recurrent and acute. Of course, measures have already been taken to grant exemptions for the financing of certain benefits or services. But it must be noted that this is insufficient. In reality, the addition of deficits in SMUR, intensive care and emergency care is currently putting the finances of the intercommunal community completely in the red, resulting in a request for short-term assistance. I will continue to explore the subject with you to see if other elements can intervene. I understand that the review of the hospital landscape, which is a more comprehensive reform with a lot of involvement, can allow, as you said, "specific attention" for small rural hospitals. The one in the Chimay region is one. There may be others in the country. Given the number of benefits, they have enormous costs compared to revenues. I would also ask you to pay attention to the situation in the very short term. These hospitals are also part of this network policy that is being promoted. There is a partnership with the CHU of Charleroi. However, the problems are present in the immediate future. I hope that in the time to come we will be able to study the subject again, Minister, and hopefully bring solutions for a small rural hospital, whose local authorities are four small communes with weak finances. It's not easy. Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your kindness.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u4	Mr President, I would indeed like to take another look at the issue of deferred care. Minister, you know that I have expressed my concern about the subject throughout the various waves. There's still delayed care today. A report from Zorgnet-Icuro was published earlier. I also spoke to you about this during the discussion of the policy paper. That report then concluded that at least two to three years will be needed to make up for delayed care. New studies have been published today, talking about four to five years. I would have liked to have talked to you about how we intend to organise the problem in the long term. I therefore had a few questions. Do you have a picture of the number of treatments being delayed at the moment? What type of treatment is it mostly about? Are there any recurring, specific treatments that take precedence over postponement? Are you working on a priority list for rebooting regular care? Which patients will be given priority? There are also a lot of questions about this in the field. These are ethical issues. Who gets priority and when? I would have liked to have heard your views on this in order to get a better picture of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u5	Mr President, Minister, I agree with Mrs Farih's questions and have a number of serious concerns about deferred care. My first concern concerns cancer diagnoses, which we have talked about before. Recently, The Guardian published a report from the MacMillan Institute, which makes it very clear that the number of diagnosiss of stage 4 of breast cancer has increased by 48% in a number of months in which the covid wave peaked. Stage 4 means a much less good prognosis than stage 1. However, there are fewer diagnoses of breast cancer at stage 1. That report confirms the statement I have already made here on many occasions, namely that people do not wish to receive medical treatment or research treatment as quickly as possible, especially when it comes to oncological aspects. We are very concerned about that. Minister, do you have a concrete plan that you will present to the Chamber to ensure that patients are screened? Patients should go to the doctor even if they don't feel anything. The oncologists have made an appeal in this respect, but I have not yet heard you reply to that. A second concern concerns those who sit at home and are waiting for a certain treatment or intervention, which means that they miss a benefit. At the first waves, the government made sure that those people did not lose income. Will that happen now, in the fourth wave? A third concern concerns the VAT circular, of which a small part has finally been published. Those who wait for an intervention and have not yet had to pay VAT before 1 January will have to do so after January. There is a transitional period until June. Minister, what about the treatments that were not carried out before June? Will these people have to pay 20% extra?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u6	Since mid-October, hospital staff, in particular, have again been under pressure from increased coronavirus contamination. In addition, intensive care services are said to be occupied, for half, by covid patients. While requests from the HTSC (Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity) Committee have been made to hospitals, this would not, however, appear to require a prioritisation of pathologies. The situation is also different between hospitals. My main question concerns the methodology and the framework of the guidelines and their communications to hospital establishments. Following the evolution of contamination, a federal circular was sent to hospitals on 30 November, apparently forcing them to postpone non-emergency activities. However, hospital institutions were not under-capacity to accommodate covid patients. In fact, it seems that another federal circular was sent a few hours later while it contradicted the first, previously sent. So how many USI beds are available to date, given that the capacity of 2,000 beds is no longer guaranteed? Considering the need for a sufficient number of staff, these USI beds and the request of the HTSC Committee, how much is currently insufficient staff to reach these 2,000 beds in our hospitals? What monitoring is in place to know the capacity for intensive care and care for each hospital institution in the country, and by whom is it managed? What circular was sent on 30 November and to which hospitals in the country was it sent? Was there indeed a reporting obligation? On what basis has another circular been communicated and to which hospitals? In view of this, do you consider it necessary to revise the procedure for sending these directives and the criteria for making such communications?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u7	Minister, like my colleagues, I had to go back to this directive received by hospitals, which was intended to delay so-called non-emergency care. This means that all life-long therapies, whether chemotherapy, dialysis or rehabilitation, can be continued. On the other hand, the selected interventions were discontinued. But you have to be on the right side, you have made it clear from the outset that hospitals that can offer beds for patients co-viding in intensive care, that have the ability to accept patients from other hospitals and that can still provide non-emergency care to their patients, can do so perfectly. While the peak of the fourth wave seems to be behind us, as we hope, this delay of care remains problematic and still applies. Three elements were deplored by hospitals both at the time of the decision and today. The first is to learn so late the projection of overflow of hospital capacities while in order to be able to anticipate and manage their activities at best, they had repeatedly asked the Federal Health Inspectorate to be able to have the results of this modelling and of the actual occupation of hospitals throughout the country. The second is the fact that no circular has specified what is meant by "urgent and necessary" care. Third, they refer to the requested reassignment of operating and waking room personnel for the full capacity of intensive care in phase 1B, which forces staff to increase absenteeism in their midst due to illness or, worse, to accelerate the increasing number of resignations. As a result, Mr.Minister, these are my questions. How is it that the requests from hospitals for projections of the capacity of ICU beds remained unanswered? Why did they learn this saturation projection so late? Is it true that no circular actually specifies what "urgent and necessary" care is? Do hospitals each have a discretion in this regard? Have you anticipated the consequences of the request for reassignment from the operating room and wake-up room staff in terms of absenteeism or resignation among caregivers? Do you have any projections of the consequences of this postponement of non-emergency care for hospitals, but also in particular for the health of the patients concerned? Finally, even though we should be extremely careful – we saw it last Friday with the arrival of this omicron variant – are we today entitled to hope for the end of this phase 1B in our hospitals in the next few days or even in the next few weeks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u8	There was still a question about Mr Rigot, but he is prevented in another committee. Are there any other members who wish to ask a question?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u9	Mr President, I would have liked to join the topical and urgent debate. I know I won't be entitled to a reply, but I could at least ask the minister one or the other question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u10	Go on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u11	Mr President, Minister, thank you. In order to estimate the impact of coronavirus on hospital care, the hospital audit department has analysed the backlog in care and the catch-up time. Among the figures, those relating to the same catch-up times are of concern, since according to INAMI, for essential and mixed surgical benefits, these catch-up times are estimated at 14 months and 15 months respectively, and at 4 years and 7 months for non-essential benefits. At the same time, the medical directorates of hospitals in the Namibian hospital network co-signed and sent a letter to the Belgian health authorities. They alert them to the management of the fourth wave and the ethical choices that result from it. This Namibian hospital network asks the authorities to clarify what urgent and necessary care is, precisely so as not to leave ethical and legal responsibility to the chief doctors and the directorates. Minister, what measures are envisaged today to make it possible to catch up with deferred care due to the crisis? Care which, moreover, continues to be cared for today. Are any work under way in this context, particularly following the analysis carried out by INAMI? I think, Mr Minister, that even in times of crisis, it is obviously important to ensure quality care for all, accessible care. Among its recommendations, moreover, the Special Commission on Covid called for an analysis to be launched concerning the postponement of care, but also for clear guidelines to be drawn up for hospitals concerning such postponements, and also in relation to the urgent and necessary care. Collaboration between KCE, Sciensano and the Bioethics Advisory Committee should be considered for this purpose. Do you consider it necessary to make more specific recommendations to hospitals and to be able to better define these concepts of urgent care so as not to place the burden of these choices on hospitals alone? What are you considering in this regard, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u12	Mr Bacquelaine, you can briefly ask another question, although Mrs Taquin has already done so for your group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u13	Mr. President, if you want, can I put it down later?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u14	Just ask your question briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u15	I just wanted to ask the minister what action he intended to take to mobilize staff against the covid epidemic. Indeed, if beds close, it is not only because of their occupation by patients of the covid, but also because of a lack of staff. Both factors need to be studied jointly. It would therefore be useful to have an overview of the postponements. What are the most common? The delay of care, which remains unclear, must benefit from a state of affairs, because we do not always know what pathology it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u16	Mr Bacquelaine, your question was initially attached to another of Mrs Rohonyi's, but as she is on top of our thematic debate, we have attached her to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u17	Mr President, Minister, as has been said, the tension remains very strong in hospitals where more than 220 beds are closed today because of a lack of health care staff to supervise them, which is the reason for the decision to postpone so-called non-vital care. This drastic measure does not address the fundamental problem, namely the lack of staff. In fact, you can continue to restrict access to care, but as long as a short- and long-term improvement of healthcare staff is not undertaken, the situation will remain extremely worrying. This is precisely what prompted Union4U, the Belgian autonomous union of nurse practitioners, to give a real signal of distress by denouncing the dangerous weakening of health care on the ground because of a lack of staff, while at the same time putting forward very concrete paths of solutions, which were, moreover, on Monday, in a white card addressed by the union whose question to the Prime Minister. Minister, what concrete and structural measures are you taking to increase hospital capacity immediately? How do you intend to recruit staff? Do you intend to give a calming signal to the healthcare staff, for example, by being open to the question of the recognition of the tenability of the occupation for access to the pension, a claim which is constantly being formulated and for which these workers have still not received an answer? In addition, this morning you responded to my colleague, Catherine Fonck, who asked you why there was nothing in the program law about the upgrading of the nursing profession, saying that a measure was on the table regarding the new IFIC classification. The problem is that, in doing so, you focus on specialized nurses, while the upgrading of the nursing profession is much more global. Why target only specialized nurses? Is this not likely to divide the profession? What, then, is in this solution that you mentioned this morning? When can we expect to debate it in Parliament? Finally, will you also look at the development of a measure that is also being requested, namely a reserve system for nurses? This is a solution for which, with a certain degree of consistency, the actors on the ground are arguing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u18	Minister, I give you the floor to answer the topical and urgent debate and the two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u19	Mr President, I will first respond in an integrated manner to the first set of questions, and then I will go back to the questions of Mr Bacquelaine and Mrs Rohonyi. It seems to me better to proceed in this way. Then there will be some circularity in my answer. Colleagues, I must insist that the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee (HTSC) is an independent committee which, pursuant to section 13 of the Act of 4 November 2020 on various social measures following the pandemic, is authorized to give directions to hospitals. In fact, you will recall that, in the legislation discussed last Friday, some of this problem has also been referred to. This committee, which plays a crucial role, is independent. It is chaired by the Public Health FPS and is composed of representatives of the administrations of the federated entities, the Defence, the hospital domes organizations, the associations of chief doctors and the nursing management and is supplemented by experts, such as the president of the Intensive Medicine Association. This committee listened to hospitals throughout the various waves of this pandemic. It monitors the situation in hospitals on a daily basis, seven days a week, from the occupation by patients covid to the evaluation of the compliance by hospitals with recommendations and the number of closed beds. With regard to the number of closed beds, Ms Rohonyi referred to the number of 200 beds currently closed. I think it's more like 160. This has diminished a little. Hospitals have made further efforts to reopen or maintain open beds. However, this remains a major problem. Both hospitals and hospitals' chief physicians are involved in the decision-making process within this committee. They also participate in the validation of the Committee's letters. Once the letters have been validated, they are transmitted to hospitals by the administrations of the federated entities and published on the Committee's website, which is part of the FPS Public Health website. So this is my answer about the context, about the institution and therefore about active participation, but also about the responsibility of hospital domes. In the letter of November 15, 2021, it was stated that due to epidemiological evolution and predictive models, a shift to the capacity of Phase 1B – that is, 50% reserved beds – would be required before November 19. However, daily monitoring has shown that hospitals have not been able to strengthen this capacity. More and more ICU beds were closed while forecasting models continued to forecast an increase. In the discussions in the Committee and in the letters that emerged from it on 30 November and 1 December 2021, it was very clear to the Committee that there would be many losers in any choice and opinion. It is therefore not fair to say that the directives at the end of November arrived too late. Indeed, this was an adjustment, on the basis that the previous objectives had not been achieved. The planable suspension of non-emergency care was a difficult decision but this step has been part of the strategy and roadmap for the Hospital Surge Capacity Plan since April 2020. At the time, this decision was supported by an opinion requested from the Office of the Superior Council of Specialist Physicians and General Practitioners. The concrete effects of the necessary gradual reduction of regular non-urgent care cannot be determined in a generic way, as many local factors play an important role in this, such as the mix of patients, the local infrastructure and the available staffing framework. So the chief physician has a central and also a difficult role to play. The Chief Medical Officer should come to an operational conclusion by consensus and consultation with the relevant clinics. The priority lists drawn up in October 2020 by the Hoge Raad of Doctors-specialists together with the Federation of Belgian Professional Associations of Doctors-Specialists can be used as a guide to determine clinical priorities in the hospital. With regard to the effects of the decisions of 30 November and 1 December, two parameters should be considered, in particular the impact on available ICU beds and the effect on deferred care. As regards the effect on the available ICU beds, the number of closed ICU beds has decreased from 228 to 147 on the date of 9 December. In addition to this, it is also worth noting that, on 9 December too, it was indicated that 85 new ICU beds were being opened. In terms of capacity, advice has therefore had a beneficial effect. With regard to deferred care, the impact is of course much less positive. It must be said that in hospitals there is a reduction in normal care if an additional burden by covid exceeds the number of 350 ICU beds. In other words, our healthcare system can absorb the additional workload of 350 ICU covid patients without having to reduce in other patients, but once the number of 500 ICU covid patients is reached, there is structural delay of care. That is why the limit of 500 ICU covid patients is so important, because the delay of care increases gradually from then on. The Committee's decisions of 30 November and 1 December are, in that respect, a formal decision of what the hospitals were actually obliged to do. In order to assess the impact of covid on the care provided in hospitals, the Audit Hospitals Service, a collaboration between the RIZIV, the Public Health Office and the FAGG, conducts regular audits at the request of the Committee. The estimate of unexecuted care in hospitals during the first, second and third wave can be consulted in detail in the report, published on the website of the RIZIV. I shall come back to that in a moment. In its approach, the Audit team has divided performance into three types, namely essential care, non-essential care and mixed care. Delaying essential care can lead to substantial health damage for the patient. Delaying non-essential care results in no or limited health damage to the patient. Depending on the context, delay of mixed care will have the same consequences as delay of essential or non-essential care. Even without the additional impact of the fourth wave, we have to say that catching up with delayed essential care and mixed care will require time. For non-essential care, it can be said that part of it solves itself, but it does not make it any more obvious to make such decisions, because of course those patients expect something. I believe that the most important thing is for us to take rapid steps to reduce virus circulation. That's the essence. I will come back to that in a moment. Mrs Depoorter, first of all I would like to say that your question is not clear to me. Maybe there's been a misunderstanding. In your question you are referring to a scheme that would allow someone whose operation is postponed to suffer a gradual loss of income during that period. I suspect that you are referring to something that may have that effect for some people, namely that people in primary incapacity will receive a benefit corresponding to that of increased temporary unemployment due to covidoverpower. That link is regulated by law. I'm so free to call the law Jan Bertels. After all, it is an initiative that was taken at the time by my head of the cabinet when he was a Member of this House. It actually means that the primary disability benefit is indeed better, in line with the increased temporary unemployment due to covidoverpower. Thus, if we prolong temporary unemployment because of covidforce, the better benefit system for those who are in primary incapacity for work will also be extended. This will also be the case if temporary unemployment is extended in the first quarter of 2022. I wonder if that confused you. This measure does indeed have the effect of improving people's benefits over a longer period of time. If you continue to be unfit for work for longer because care is delayed, you will still have this 'financial comfort'. But in the end, that's not real comfort, because those people just want to be cared for.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u20	Surely the measure has not been extended after January 2022, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u21	Yes, that is linked to the extension of temporary unemployment. If we introduce the temporary unemployment regime, the measure will also be introduced automatically.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u22	But the measure still needs to be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u23	You now give me some doubts as to when temporary unemployment has stopped and when it will be re-implemented. I assume that it will be re-established from 1 January and that the regime will automatically come back into force. I come to the questions of Mr Bacquelaine and Mrs Rohonyi. I consider the postponement of care to be a painful and even tragic phenomenon, even though some of them may be classified as "non-emergency". It's always very bad for the patient's well-being - it's not a debate. As I indicated, analyses have been conducted. Between early 2020 and May 2021, the carry-over of essential care was 5.8% - this is really to be avoided; that of mixed care was 6.2%; that of non-essential care was 22.8%. Fortunately, between the first two waves, we can note a very strong trend towards catching up. In February and March 2021, hospitals managed to take 18 per cent more essential and mixed acts and 26 per cent more non-essential acts. Keeping the estimates conservative and catching up with 10 per cent would take seven months to recover the essential and mixed acts and two years and four months for the non-essentials. However, this does not yet account for the care carryovers of the third and fourth waves. We are therefore faced with a very acute and painful problem. Although that is not your point, and without seeking to argue with you, I sometimes hear people saying in media-retrieved debates that we should simply increase the capacity of beds in intensive care. In truth, there are already many. That's not the point. Then, and in a slightly more controversial way, we will not advise the public to smoke and no longer follow anti-smoking campaigns, while opening additional oncology sections and building hospitals to treat cancers. That's not an answer. Similarly, we are not going to allow the seat belt not to be worn, while increasing our intensive care capacity for victims of serious road accidents. It is obviously a reasoning that does not hold the road and which also applies to the covid - which is a serious disease and which is far from being without consequences. Therefore, the number of patients per se must be kept to a minimum. I think we agree on that. But in the meantime, we have a very serious problem. I'm going to the training and the offer. As you know, Parliament has created the White Blouses Fund. In 2019, 1,000 additional recruitments were made through the White Blouse Fund. In 2021, according to the official report, there was a surplus of 4,500 full-time equivalent jobs. We are not quite certain of the quality of this report, I admit. But let us assume that this is still an important indication. This is a very important increase. I have already given the very concrete figures for hospitals in the area. However, these are significant increases in their staff. In a situation of burn-out, stress and covid among staff, we again face a significant shortage. That's absolutely true. What are we doing? First, an increase in wages, thanks to the social agreement. This is a 5% premium on purchasing power at macro level. This is important, but as you have learned in the meantime, since this social agreement is being achieved through the new classification of functions, there are people who benefit significantly from it within nurses. That's the answer to your question, Mrs. Rohonyi. A non-specialized, rather young nurse, with little seniority, gains a lot from the new classification, compared with the official sector scale with the official IFIC scale. Hospitals may already be paying more. When compared for a non-specialized general nurse at the beginning of a career, the increase in purchasing power is significant. But there are other nurses, especially those who are specialized and have significant seniority. These not only earn nothing, but also lose at a change. There's really a problem with IFIC. That is why I have asked the government for an additional budget effort that I want to put into practice in the hours and days ahead with a concrete proposal. But we must of course continue to achieve the social agreement. I strongly urge the social partners to speed up their work in their "attractive" working group on qualitative measures, measures relating to working conditions, training, etc. which, alongside the increase in wages, are very important. For this, an envelope is also defined. I think it is important to work on training also at the level of the regions, but of course – I admit – it is not in the long term, but in the short and medium term. What we voted on Friday, and that we hope to see voted on in plenary before Christmas, is the mobilisation, for testing and vaccination, of a whole series of health professions, not just nurses or doctors, because it is important to let them work where their skills are particularly needed, i.e. in care, in hospitals, etc. And not so much for testing or vaccination. In any case, that is the purpose of the legislation that we discussed here on Friday. I am going back to my previous remarks: yes, this is an extremely difficult situation! The staff suffers, it's clear! The only radical solution is to manage the pandemic, to act early, to stop the spread of the virus. And now that we've reached the turning point, the peak, we need to lower the numbers as quickly as possible. It's obvious!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u24	Minister, I think we can all agree that we need to be able to control the crisis by slowing down or even avoiding the contamination. However, if we look at the longer term, we will not only have to eliminate the risks in our country, but we will also have to seize opportunities to offer new care methods to the population. We find that the system is simply not robust enough to endure a chronic crisis today. I am therefore waiting for a longer-term vision to ensure that we do not have the same problems in the future. It is very good that priority lists exist, but ethically it is becoming increasingly difficult for a chief physician to make decisions, especially when it comes to long-term delay as we know it today. We must not underestimate the psychological and other pressure on the chief doctors. If I recall correctly, in the first and second wave, we worked with a system of buddies at the FPS Public Health, which accompanied the hospitals in the dispatching of IC patients at national level. Couldn't we also set up a buddy system to guide the chief doctors in the ethical choices they stand for today and support them in their work? Again, the care is under great pressure and the caregivers have it psychologically very hard. We must give them every support we can. If we look forward-looking, we'll have to ask for more collaboration from hospitals. We need a flexible funding system that also works in times of crisis. I fully understand that we will not be able to resolve this today, but I am still somewhat hungry and waiting for more opportunities for the longer term that we can seize, so that we no longer only have the risk reduction in mind. Thank you in advance for the work you are doing in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u25	Minister, I think it is a very special answer, especially when it comes to the resilience of care. I assume that you will deal with the problem of disability benefits, because today there is a great deal of concern for patients who are waiting for surgery. They are anxious that their benefits will be reduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u26	For the record, you mix two things with each other that may sometimes have to do with each other, but one is not the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u27	Minister, you tell me that it is linked to the other, but you cannot give me an answer to the question whether the patient will be sure to receive his sickness benefit at the promised level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u28	Mrs Depoorter, how is it possible to throw so much confusion about this? There is no provision of this kind for a certain statute to be maintained if one waits for an intervention and then has to wait even longer. There's no such arrangement. There is a law, I do not know whether you supported it at the time, it would be interesting to check it out, perhaps we should do so immediately, which will ensure that the primary disability benefit is better. You probably know that, at least I hope you do. The primary incapacity for work applies to the beginning of the illness period. We'll improve that benefit at the beginning of the illness period.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u29	Mr. Secretary...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u30	It may be that people who remain ill for some reason will benefit from it during that period. This legislation shall enter into force automatically. This is linked to the fact that we are creating a special, more favourable regime of temporary unemployment. Otherwise it is difficult to explain that we are doing so. I just want to explain to you what that's like. I suggest we check what you have said about that law in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u31	Mr. Secretary, I suggest...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u32	I'd also like to hear you say...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u33	I'll let the Minister continue with his speech. Then it's up to you, Mrs. Depoorter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u34	Mrs Depoorter, I would also like to hear that you are in favour of regulating temporary unemployment as quickly as possible. Those aren't the sounds I hear from your angle. I even think I recall that the N-VA Group was not so enthusiastic about this in another debate, but it is the good guys who are getting better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u35	Mr. Secretary, you have made your point. I give the floor again to Mrs Depooster for the follow-up to her reply. That is what we are going to do, otherwise we are going to keep busy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u36	Mr President, can I have a minute' s extra speaking time? Minister, I would very much like to know whether you can guarantee that people waiting for an intervention will not suffer any loss of benefit. I note that you are very happy to give me a political answer, but you cannot give me any clarity. So I ask you again. Can you guarantee that people do not lose benefits because they have to wait for an intervention due to delayed care? You can't do that. It is therefore very important to formulate an answer to this. Secondly, Minister, on the resilience of care, you also give a very political answer in which you refer to the IFIC and to the regions, but you do not come to the heart of the matter, you have not done anything about the resilience of care. You started the fourth wave with ten percent beds handicap in the ICUs. You haven't done anything about the buddy work that hospitals themselves have done. You have not created a framework for the training of nurses to IZ buddies, who have carried out various hospitals. You didn't make sure there were enough nurses at the ICU beds. You may well philosophize, but you have failed to do so. Finally, Minister, it is heartening that you are now pleading for the law that you forgot to extend on 1 October 2021, namely the delegation of nursing duties that will allow other care actors to test and vaccinate. The N-VA Group informed you on 27 October 2021 that you had not implemented that emergency law. So now your hands are short.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u37	Oh, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u38	Finally, Minister, I did not receive an answer to my question on the VAT regime for patients who are waiting for a delayed care procedure. Will they have to pay 21 % extra? For the umpteenth time, I also did not get an answer to the question of what your plan is with all the tumors that are not diagnosed today and diagnosed in later stages, making the prognosis for those patients much more difficult. I'll retable the question. It'll be the sixth time. However, it is very important that we respond to the oncologists who are screaming the alarm.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u39	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, I thank you for the answer to each of my questions, which were more practical and technical. I will not say that I am reassured, because I know that you are following this very closely. We must continue the preventive effort with regard to covid – and we know that this effort is considerable – to prevent contamination and to avoid the development of serious forms, which send patients to hospital. Of course, you are also aware of the extreme difficulty of these postponements of care and their consequences. I know you're paying attention to the question. Nor will I fail to return to you over the weeks and months to come. I give the floor to my colleague Mr Bacquelaine, who asked a few questions which also deserved clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u40	In principle, Mrs Rohonyi has the floor first. Answer for both of your questions, ma'am!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answer. In any case, I hear a willingness, in your leadership, to learn from this crisis management, namely that at every acute phase of the crisis – and we are still there today, since we are on Monday at 830 occupied intensive care beds – care is postponed, which has catastrophic consequences for the health of patients. However, I am not convinced by the classification that you mentioned, between essential care, mixed care and non-essential care, the postponement of which is not a problem. Because today, what can be considered non-vital can become vital precisely because of this delay of care, a lack of screening or an operation that has been repeatedly postponed. I am thinking of a cancer that has not been detected in time, or of a cancer operation that avoids, for example, a stroke with a fatal outcome. When you explain the 28 per cent figure in the first two waves, I'm very worried, because I'm afraid that just because we have waves that force us to postpone this care, that proportion of the essential care carried over would only increase. The solution, as you rightly said, is twofold. On the one hand, implement health measures to reduce the number of patients. However, these measures need to be coherent and effective. We'll talk about it right after. It is also important to increase the number of nursing staff in order to supervise these beds in intensive care. As usual, you quote this famous White Blouse Fund. However, according to the nurses, this is a camouflage, because it does not bring back or attract new staff who have abandoned the profession prematurely. It is not only I who say this, minister, since this finding was objected to by a study by Belfius, which shows that, despite this Fund, there are only 0.5% additional commitments of full-time equivalents. This is proof that it is not enough to open the budget envelopes to achieve results. You also quote the social agreement for a salary adjustment. However, this is minimal in terms of the training period for nurses – from three to four years. In addition, this revalorisation, which should be due to their possible year of specialization, will be abolished. I also regret, Minister, that you are not answering my questions about IFCI, nor are you answering my questions about the recognition of the hardness of the trade. I have the impression that this is a real taboo in this government. What about the double-reserve system, which I think is quite reasonable and through which former nurses could be trained so that they can be called on a voluntary basis in the event of an overload of intensive care services? Such measures would allow nurses to apply and remain. And then, in conclusion, I would like to appeal to colleagues in the majority, who seem to be offended by the shortage of caregivers, of which the whole country is now a victim. I remember that a year ago, as we were debating the MR's motion for a resolution on home nursing, I insisted on the need to hear this sector. This request for a hearing had been refused, on the grounds that the government would act at the appropriate time. Now, while we are in the middle of the fourth wave, whose peak would be behind us, would it not be more than time, ladies and gentlemen, to organise this hearing of the nursing sector? That would make it possible to objectify things.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u42	Mr Minister, I would like to thank you for your clear answers. I share your point of view. We certainly have a significant capacity in intensive care beds in our country. Overall, it is one of the countries in Europe with the highest number of hospital beds. We have that capacity today but, of course, with the pandemic we are experiencing, we are in an extremely tense situation, despite this important capacity. I therefore think that it might be useful to define a strategy. It is an opportunity today to define a strategy in relation to recourse, the greater development of day hospitalisation and outpatient care. In our system of care, there is often a resort to the hospital environment that is not always justified. Therefore, rather than simply going towards forbearance from care or care, because of this congestion, this hospital saturation by covid patients and also because of the reluctance of some patients to go to hospitals that we feel very strongly today, perhaps there is a strategy to be developed to further increase the supply of day-time hospitalization that makes it possible to make less use of staff, since people are not there at night? On the other hand, many acts and care could now be done in outpatient care with proper supervision. I believe that this is probably an opportunity to take advantage of today. But, of course, we must do everything we can to reduce the number of infections - this is the real solution - and, in a second stage, the number of hospitalizations. The third dose, therefore, is really very important, especially for caregivers, to ensure that there are fewer covid patients in the healthcare staff and that the mobilization can be stronger, even if we fully realize the overload that is now experienced by all the caregivers who are doing remarkable work and that we must support in all ways and by all means.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u43	Do other colleagues want to join the topical and urgent debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u44	Mr Minister, the reports on this matter and the study of the RIZIV lead me to conclude that delay of care is a major problem, as is the catching up of delayed care. In your answer, there is no plan to make up for that concern. How will the priorities be set? Have you thought about that? Non-essential or even often inappropriate operations were not carried out, but also major operations such as heart surgery and colectomies were not carried out and cancer diagnoses were not made at the time. In your answer, you do not come up with a plan to deal with this in concrete terms in our hospitals. I find that rather disturbing. All you're saying is that we need to make sure that the contamination drops. Indeed, when the infections fall, the acute covid crisis may well be over; that is what we are still talking about. We do not yet have an answer to the question of how the government, through policy, is preventing the infections from getting back up to speed. Then how do we effectively ensure that people in care can cope with the following waves and take back regular care. Your answer does not reassure me, Minister. I'm expecting a plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u45	Madam President, since we had a wide topical debate on this last Friday and I have already received an answer, I withdraw my question. 55023031C in.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u46	Mrs Rohonyi will also ask a question and I will ask the same question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u47	Madam President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u48	No, we have to wait. First of all, Mrs Depoorter will be speaking, but I am just waiting for the minister to find his documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u49	Madam President, I will of course answer the questions asked, but perhaps one day we should think about their repetition. We had a debate on the situation on Friday. You keep me here, and you too, for hours and hours, and even days, repeating questions that were asked on Friday. It's the same debate! And it will still be the same tomorrow! I don't have a problem. You're the masters of the game. But in terms of time management and the efficiency of the debate... You can do it, there is no problem. But this is a repetition of the debate we had on Friday. Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u50	I think that was agreed on yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u51	No problem. I point out that it's...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u52	At the same time, I think that the news, after four days, has changed; there are new issues, there are issues that have also been introduced after Friday's debate. I think that yesterday the President went around the various groups on this subject and it was decided so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u53	Don't worry. But, come on...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u54	The President did ask me yesterday whether I wanted to keep my question. I said yes, because...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u55	You! Yes, you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u56	Yes, but we needed a consensus, minister. But the debate we had last Friday, until proof to the contrary, had to deal with the omicron variant. If some colleagues wanted to redo the history of the Codeco, etc., they would do very well. At some point, however, we must respect the matters laid down by the committees. There is an omicron, what this implies, etc. My question concerns the health measures taken in the last two Codecos. Your answers are all the more important as it will allow us to clarify what can be expected of us by the next Codeco, announced on 22 December. In view of all these elements, I think that my question deserved to be asked today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u57	No problem! I'm a little surprised, but no problem. I thought that my secretariat had agreed with Mr Warmoes, the President, that Mrs Rohonyi would ask her question, but that there would be no repetition, for the umpteenth time, of a general debate on the covid crisis. But I'll take care of it! All I'm saying is that one day you and I will have to ask ourselves if it's so interesting to have here... I still have 80 questions, with a lot of rehearsals. I'm trying to answer. I'm answering. But one day, you'll have to ask yourself if it's worth it. I have time until tomorrow morning. No problem. I mean, I got a kern, I'm gonna go out for the kern, and I'll be right back. No problem. But is it really very interesting? I'm asking the question, but I'll leave it to you. You're the masters of the game. No problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u58	Mr Minister, according to my information, yesterday was indeed agreed with several Members and with your cabinet to hold the topical debate. Members also have new questions since last Friday's debate. Politics has evolved enormously in the meantime. We cannot say that the political situation is the same as Friday. I believe that Mrs Depoorter and Mrs Vanpeborgh would like to speak briefly first. I suggest that we start the debate afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u59	Minister, you have often said that it is not always so interesting here in committee, but it is our last chance to debate with you about COOVID-19 until next year. Then I really don't think it's worth the discussion. We are putting forward alternatives, arguments and proposals, and we have been doing so for a long time and you have come here to say that this is not interesting. I'm very sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u60	Madam President, I certainly do not want to complicate matters, but I have a constructive proposal. Perhaps you could ask the Members involved in the topical debate who really wants to ask another question. I can imagine that a number of questions are topical and that people who would like to ask, but there may also be Members who say that they no longer need to do so, given last Friday's debate, as Mrs Farih points out. That is simply a constructive proposal, so that the other questions that are very important can also be asked. It is important that we make progress in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u61	I suggest we start with that. Mrs. Depoorter, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u62	Minister, these are not repeats, but follow-up questions. If we're gonna get to Omikron too fast, we're gonna have to prick, prick, prick. You agree with me on that point. I asked you in plenary whether you would respect a faster interval for the reboosts. You have listened to that and passed the question on to the Supreme Health Council. Are you finished with a scenario to scale up to 1 million reboosts a week, as the Corona Commissioner stated in his report? A second question is about the children. In this context, too, you expect an opinion from the Supreme Health Council very soon. In order to prepare that opinion, did you order the examination of natural immunity in children? By what time do you expect the reports? Do you include in the models that you have made in preparation for what omikron might bring about in our society, taking into account that immunity? As far as testing policy is concerned, Professor Van Gucht has clearly indicated that today's test policy is not adapted to delta, but certainly not to omikron. Are there plans to adapt that test policy and to ensure, for example, that a rapid antigen test is screened and that a positive result is passed on to Sciensano and a quarantine certificate is given immediately? We also discussed the quality control of self-tests with Professor Van Gucht. Have you taken steps to ensure that a qualitatively correct test is purchased? The Prime Minister said that Belgium supports Europe's proposal that the CST would only be valid for nine months. This would start from 1 February or 1 March. That could be important for the skiing holiday. Is that the government's vision? How will you solve that for those who couldn't get a reboost on February 1st or March 1st?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u63	Minister, you have faced three Codecos in three weeks, and we see the complications that this entails when it comes to informing, getting people to join and making them understand the measures taken. All this must be done in order to provide opportunities, especially for the well-being and mental health of our young and younger population. Yes, decisions must be consistent with each other and communicated in a clear and concrete manner. After almost two years of pandemic, it's essential. Yet let us take the example of the mask! It is understood that there is a radical opposition to wearing the mask at primary school and finally, 48 hours later, it is decided that this port will be compulsory. It's really very bad. The criteria for class closure are also the same. Once, this is due to two cases per class, another is due to 25% class contamination, and then again to two cases per class, eight days apart. Imagine practice and understanding on the ground! Hospital guidelines are treated in the same way. We just talked about it. Hospitals receive a directive and then a new one within 48 hours. We know the scientific uncertainties are there, but still. We know that we are asking for a crisis management scoreboard. I have asked you many times about how decisions are based. I know you're not alone, but where are we? Months ago, we talked about this crucial decision-making scoreboard. You said you were not satisfied with a proposal from the Corona police station. You recalled a few days ago that the proposal for scientific criteria indicators had been rejected by Codeco and that you were advocating for a simplified barometer. We are almost two years away from the pandemic, so I would like to have specific information on this management and decision-making tool. Should we recall any measures that appear to have been taken somewhat blindly? For example, the Institut Pasteur's French study shows that contact jobs, restaurants and shops do not have a particular impact on spread. It is such scientific data that we need and which, I believe, must incorporate a scoreboard. There is, of course, the situation in our hospitals. But considering the last few weeks and last week's statements, which are televising as we approach next week's Codeco, I have a few questions. What type of decision-making dashboard, monitoring or barometer – call it as you want – is it in place at the moment? What criteria for scientific studies are the Codeco's decisions made? I am thinking of hybrid education in secondary school, the obligation to wear masks, the closure of schools, the closure of shops at 11.00 p.m. and the prohibition of extracurricular activities. In concrete terms, what facts, in addition to the situation in our hospitals, do we decide to close and reopen a particular sector and impose new health obligations? Do you confirm that we do not yet have one? What are the proposals on the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u64	Mrs Taquin, I should like to point out that you have exceeded your speaking time by one and a half minutes. Please be careful next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u65	Minister, I welcome this topical debate. Indeed, contrary to what you said earlier, a great many people want to see clearly how health measures are taken, especially the economic sectors affected by them. I am thinking of the Horeca, which must close its doors at 11:00 p.m. and limit the tables to six people, while it has for months met strict standards of ventilation, social distancing, hand washing, but also control of the CST. These are rules that do not apply to private holidays, which have taken over more beautiful without any barrier gestures - which is nevertheless, Mr Minister, a true health nonsense. Moreover, you imposed the CST+ on the world of the night, which you withdrew less than a week later to prefer a pure and simple closure. In addition, we observe that many people use the CST from their friends or loved ones, so that they can go to bars and restaurants without being vaccinated or tested. With the omicron variant, it's particularly dangerous. The challenge is to ensure that the CST is indeed respected on the ground, before developing a reflection on its generalization or hardening. The same applies to telework, of which we see that it is not respected, whereas the workplace is one of the places where the virus circulates the most, as a report from KULeuven and IDW, which is the largest service of prevention and protection at work in Belgium, has just been objected to. Minister, why is it that only Horeca is covered by this six-person rule, as opposed to private events? Is the underlying reason related to the overload of police officers, who are struggling today to verify compliance with health measures, particularly the CST? How do you respond to the insistent request of the Horeca to be able to remain open later on the New Year's Eve on December 24 and 31? This is a reflection that you will need to have within the next Codeco. Was the CST+ mechanism evaluated during this short implementation and, if so, with what conclusions? Can we consider that this CST+, combined with a fast test, is purely and simply abandoned for the future? What is your position with regard to frauds at the CST? Is this situation assessed? Is it known about its impact on the health situation? Does the government intend to respond, and how? On the other hand, what about telework control? Why didn't you impose it on the last Codeco five days a week? Finally, do you confirm that the last Codeco had been requested in particular by the president of the N-VA, not to assume the cancellation of certain events? Are we entitled, this time, to hope that the next Codeco will follow the advice of the experts more closely? Some experts expressed their great frustration that they had not been followed. They even question whether they will draft a new opinion for the next Codeco. Will they?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u66	Mr Minister, the figures for the delta variant are moving in the right direction, but the omikron variant is coming. We do not know the danger, but we know now that he is more contagious. The next meeting of the Consultative Committee is scheduled for 22 December. What is the plan of the different governments against the possible omikron wave? In several countries, accelerated booster pricks are now being planned. Is that also the case here? What's the containment strategy? Is there also a strategy in our country to ensure that the number of infections does not rise again? For the time being, it amounts to a yo-yo policy, sectors are constantly being opened up and closed down. We limit our contacts, which reduces the number of infections, but there is actually no good testing, tracing, and quarantine strategy although this variant is more contagious. Mr Van Gucht has already indicated that the current testing and tracing strategy is really not in order. As the number of tests drops, to less than 100,000 per day, the question is whether there is a plan to set up a more efficient testing, tracing, and quarantine strategy to ensure that the omikron does not become too heavy. This weekend I heard Mr Tim Vandenput, who is a member of Open VLD, on RTL in the program C'est pas tous les jours dimanche make an amazing statement, when he suggested to stop tracing because that wouldn't do anything. I was rather surprised at that statement. Can you agree with that? Is that plan on the table? Finally, you've been talking about your ventilation plan for weeks. Is that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u67	Mrs Farih, if you do not take the floor, your question is without object. That's not a problem, but I'd like to see if you'd like to make it. No? Okay, then it's without an object.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u68	I'll respond in reverse order. President, you referred to the importance of ventilation. It is indeed crucial. That insight has gradually come to light. This virus will stick in the air if you don't refresh the air. Even when someone who is infected goes out, the infectious virus lingers in the air. Ventilation is therefore essential. I have prepared a preliminary draft bill with which I would like to start organising a general policy of good indoor air quality, good fresh air in enclosed spaces. That will take a lot of time, because this is absolutely a new type of policy. However, we know that this is urgently needed. As you know, I have had to press the education ministers hard, and it has actually taken too long to convince them that we had to put ventilation in schools high on the agenda. It's time now. I think we should look at this for the whole of society. It's about cultural centers, cafes, restaurants and halls like this. Ventilation is very important everywhere. I have prepared a draft that I submit to the government and I hope my colleagues will follow me. Mrs Rohonyi and Mrs Taquin, I will be brief about the decisions of the Conciliation Committee, and I apologize for that. It is true that the decision-making process was frustrating, certainly for the citizens, difficult to follow. But I will conclude that what was decided by this third meeting of the Codeco is a package of appropriate measures. The result of the first and second Codeco is already seen in the figures! It is to be hoped that the measures taken in the last Codeco will bear fruit, which I am convinced. We may be unhappy with the political process; I will no longer go back to it, but I think that, in the end, the package of measures is significant and sufficient. Mrs. Taquin, you mention the wearing of the mask by the children. It is scientific evidence that children should be asked to wear a mask when there is such a circulation of the virus. It is clear that this measure will not be changed. It will therefore be in force at the end of January like all the others because this type of precaution will also have to be used against a variant such as amicron. It's an important message. Barrier gestures, the wearing of the mask and all other measures, even if painful, must be maintained for a number of weeks and certainly during Christmas holidays, in order to combat a pandemic in the pandemic, due to the omicron variant. What I said on Friday in summary on the barometer is that the instrument is interesting, but it should not be too complicated. This amounts to a diagram with critical levels, alarm thresholds and a menu of possible measurements ready to be activated according to the alarm levels in which you are located. That's what an interesting barometer is. It is not an automatic scheme, which will replace political decisions, but an indicative, incentive scheme with alarm thresholds and a menu of possible measures. That's what the coronary office is going to propose. We have discussed this within the Office with Mr. Facon, Ms. Schirvel and their advisors, and it is this type of scheme that we are going to propose. Mrs Taquin, I said on Friday that this type of scheme has already been proposed and has encountered quite a lot of resistance at the level of Codeco and political decision in general, because policies tend to be wary of this kind of scheme. But I think that this scheme can contribute to political decision-making and, as you say, make political decisions more predictable and comprehensible. I therefore agree with the Corona Commissariat to propose such an approach again, which will be discussed for the first time at the Codeco on 22 December. Mrs Depoorter, you asked questions about the booster campaign. You also spoke for a moment about vaccination for children. Last week I asked the High Health Council and the Task Force Vaccination to give us an opinion very quickly on shortening the time needed between the last vaccination with Pfizer or Moderna and the booster vaccination. So far it has been said that one has to wait six months to ensure that the booster, which is Pfizer's, has a maximum good effect after Pfizer or Moderna. That's six months' is not taken out of the sky, that is the medical advice so that the booster would have the best effect in the long term. We prefer to be certain of the uncertainty with regard to omikron. There are quite a few indications that the booster also protects us better against the omikron variant. The question is then what to do. Should we possibly wait five months instead of six months? There are both medical and organisational aspects to this question. The medical question is next. If one shortens the waiting period from, for example, six months to five months before the booster after Pfizer or Moderna, is the effect equally strong in the longer term? A number of experts, doctors, tell me that if we cut the interval too much, for example a booster after two or three months, we may have an effect in the short term, but that will soon prove that this effect is not strong enough in the longer term. So one would make some profit in the short term, but lose in the strength of the vaccine and power of the booster in the longer term. The question that medical experts have to answer is how to make that assessment. How much can that interval be reduced from six months to five months and perhaps less with short-term benefits, without too much disadvantage in the longer term? I'm not a doctor, I'm not an epidemiologist, I'm not a vaccineologist. These kinds of questions, which require difficult consideration, must be addressed to medical experts. Those are in the Supreme Health Council and therefore we ask the Council for an opinion. However, there is also an operational issue. I am, of course, discussing this very much behind the scenes with my colleagues in Health. Those colleagues, responsible for the concrete vaccination campaign on the ground, did have some hesitation last week in submitting that question, for example from an interval of six months to five months. That hesitation also existed in Flanders, because it was stated that the schedule with those six months went well in the meantime. In the event of acceleration, problems may arise rather than problems being solved. Moreover, the staff in the vaccination centres, who have already worked very hard, are really on their gums. Nevertheless, I have convinced my colleagues to ask that question for an acceleration. In the meantime, I see that the spirits are evolving, because everyone seems to agree that an interval of five months is better if the medical experts in the High Health Council also think that is a good idea and if the organizers of the campaign see that as well. So it's a double question. The first question is a medical question. By accelerating, we're making short-term profits, but there may be some longer-term losses. How can loss in power of booster be weighed? The second question is an organisational question. Can the pass be accelerated and that acceleration maintained? As you have heard, I am in favour, but of course I never make such a decision alone. I have to agree with the regional ministers Wouter Beke and Christie Morreale on this, as they are responsible for the concrete organisation on the ground. Moreover, the organisation must be possible in practice. I very quickly expect the advice of the High Health Council and also of the Task Force on organisational aspects. In the meantime, I am talking behind the scenes with my colleagues about what this means in concrete terms. We will probably not make the formal decision until next Monday. That can be called late, but in the meantime things are already being discussed and prepared. Now I come to the vaccination of children. I have said before that I personally support the vaccination of children, because as many people as possible in the population must have been vaccinated in order to reduce the circulation of the virus. It is also really about protecting the world in which children live, in particular the protection of their parents, grandparents and teachers. For these reasons, I personally believe that we can ask that. However, we are still waiting for medical advice and advice on the organisation. We must also consider to what extent we want to give priority to booster shots or to child vaccination. This is a difficult question when both children and adults who need to receive booster shots will have to go to the same vaccination centres. I therefore call on my colleagues, for example, in Flanders, to use the Centres for Apprenticeship for the vaccination of children. I hope that there will be a positive answer to that question. If that is not possible, I will, of course, accept it and understand it. However, the Centres for Apprenticeship have a role and a vocation to participate in the vaccination. We have the vaccines for children. We ordered them and some of them have already arrived. They're with us. So we do not have to wait for vaccines. I know that there are still many questions of principle to be resolved. But on the francophone side too, school medicine services should be able to play a role in a campaign to immunize children, if one agrees to do so. For this, we expect the advice of the Higher Council of Health and the Task Force. Personally, I think that it is really the vocation of school medicine to engage in a campaign of vaccination of children. So there are important questions, not yet resolved, but we are working on them behind the scenes. To sum up, I'm worried about Omikron and I'm certainly not the only one. The answer to omikron is a mouth mask, including for children, keeping away, and certainly not coming up with proposals for relaxation, as I have heard from political colleagues. It's very annoying, but we have to bite the teeth. Also in the schools it will be: keep wearing a mouth mask, even after Christmas holidays. At the same time, indeed, it is safe to take the booster as uncertainly as possible and thus give as many people as possible a booster and consider how, on the one hand, if we decide to do so, we will organise the campaign for the children and, on the other hand, we will move forward with the boosters as quickly as possible. Finally, I would like to say that we have also decided to place an additional order for the Pfizer vaccines that will be adapted to omikron. That decision was formalized yesterday. In addition, on top of the discs we already ordered, we order additional Pfizers, adapted to omikron. I don't know when they will be delivered April or May, perhaps earlier: Pfizer speaks of March, but we are also counting on many millions of additional doses of Pfizer, adapted to omikron. We have just completed the decision of the additional orders through an electronic meeting of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health. That is the answer to the various questions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u69	In my view, Mr Minister, that additional order of the modified Pfizer vaccines was absolutely necessary. It is therefore a good thing that this has happened. It can also be an answer to what you find to be a big dilemma, namely to give the booster faster or not, and then in the longer term there may be a reduced effect. If you would follow the EEA advice now, because in the end the EEA is a well-written and well-reputed scientific agency, which we, as a State, would follow and apply an interval of 12 weeks. You are talking about 5 months, the EEA is talking about 12 weeks, which is much faster than you could beat omikron too quickly. Then you could make sure that our population is actually vaccinated and able to move forward. You are talking about the operational issue, but what I find very difficult is that you will only look at it when it is decided whether you will handle 12 weeks or 5 or 6 months. You have the vaccination centers, you have the first line. Some countries use the army. You have plenty of resources to scale up and to make sure that our population can be vaccinated faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u70	Mrs Depoorter, I know that the EEA has said that there is a permit from three months. That's not the same as advice. It's about the package leaflet. The vaccine package leaflet says it can be used from three months, not before. That's very important. That is indeed a motivation to think whether it should be six months, or five months or less. That is an isolated question that needs to be looked at. I'm not a doctor or a vaccineologist. I don't just decide behind my desk how the ratio between the booster and a possible new vaccine should be for the variants. I didn't ask the Supreme Health Council to give me the medical advice before I asked for advice from the task force on the organization. I specifically did the opposite. I have made a formal request for advice at the same time to the High Health Council for Medical and the Task Force for Organisational and Mobilization. After all, we will have to make a real mobilisation. I hate to polemise, but you always invite me to it. I have not forgotten that in mid-September the N-VA officially stated in a document that vaccination centres should be closed down. That was your point of view. If a booster were to be provided, it would have to be provided by the general practitioners and occupational health services. Fortunately, we did not follow that view and did not close the vaccination centres, as your party suggested. I don't blame you. It wouldn't be bad to stop saying that everyone is too slow, that you had all this planned and that you knew all that. Those who wanted to close the vaccination centres in mid-September did not foresee that either. We must try to think together, but we must also do so on the basis of scientific advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u71	Working together indeed helps, but an honest debate also helps. In the middle of September, you would give the reboost to the Third World. That's what you were doing at the time. The first line gives 3 million flu vaccinations every year between mid-October and mid-November. If my party claimed in mid-September that the reboost could go perfectly through the first line, that would be because the first line could. The pharmacists and general practitioners together can perfectly set the reboost to a month if you would organize it. It's been happening every year for decades. That is certainly possible with a little good will.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u72	Mrs Depoorter, you are now saying that we could do the booster campaign for a population of 11 million without vaccination centres. I'll write down your idea. That's what you're saying. I note that's your idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u73	Mr President, Minister, I have answered you that during the flu period we... Minister, you don't have to put words in my mouth. I am telling you what I have been saying for months, namely that vaccination through the first line can happen very quickly and efficiently. By the way, it happened at the time of the Mexican flu, as you remember. It's possible. With a little good will, I can do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u74	Mrs Depoorter, all the madness on a stick, I really am not of that opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u75	Minister, we have now rolled out the vaccination centres. They're working. We're gonna go through with it, as you just said. However, Minister, what you have just done was not proper. Minister, I have less reservations for the children. However, this is a group for which vaccination will be very sensitive. Indeed, they must also be protected from omikron. We must protect our society from omikron. I also hear you saying that we have the vaccines and that they can be placed. However, you have not answered the question of monitoring the immunity obtained by the children in recent weeks. This is particularly important for the parents who will have to decide whether the vaccine is necessary and whether or not they will have the vaccine given to their children. Finally, Minister, on measures, you begin by expressing that we will not be allowed to relax. I ask you one question and no dogma. Do not relax, do not intertwine: we can only take decisions on data-based measures. Not enough has happened. When we look at IDEWE's study, we see that today the transmission of hairdressers is no greater than that of other professions. We also see that there are very large differences at different events. When we have to make decisions and partially shut down and restrict society, this must be done on the basis of data and not from the loose wrist.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u76	Mr President, Mrs Depooster, I would like to add something that is important in case parents would listen. The general line our specialists have kept so far is that it is not because someone has been infected, that he or she does not need a vaccine. That must of course always be reconsidered. I wouldn't like the idea that children who have been infected shouldn't get a vaccine would start to do the rounds as some sort of acquired insight. So far the scientists have always said the opposite, especially that even if one has been infected, it is better to be vaccinated. I'd like to give you that to avoid any misunderstandings. For the rest, I note that you are proposing to do the booster campaign with the general practitioners. I do not think this is very realistic, but of course we can think about everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u77	Minister, there are not enough studies on children and vaccination. You cannot say whether a child who has experienced an infection needs one, two or three vaccines to ensure less transmission of the omikron virus. So before you submit that choice to the people, you need to examine it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u78	Minister, thank you for your intervention and your listening. While the subject was discussed on Friday, between Friday and today, the press reported new statements. That is what displeases me, as a mayor, as a citizen, as a mother, but also as a parliamentarian. I therefore really stress the need for this decision-making scoreboard, which I believe is extremely important in that it would avoid diffuse communications both before and during and after the Codeco. These diffuse communications disrupt the population and complicate the implementation of the measures taken. I hear the measures that have been decided. I don't dispute them and I don't criticize them. I apply them to the territory of my commune to participate in the collective effort which is of great importance. They have produced their effects, which is very good. Let's continue the effort! But I do not understand how the effect of CO2 sensors in schools could be measured, knowing that these sensors are unavailable and that not all schools have had the means to equip themselves with them. If you want to do the test, you can come to Courcelles. All classes are equipped with a CO2 sensor. If an analysis is done within a specified time frame, this effect could be measured. But this does not in any way detract from the scientifically proven importance of following the scientific data that is constantly evolving. Ventilation is known to be extremely important. It is also known that wearing the mask is an additional barrier to prevent transmission of the virus. So I really insist on the need for this scoreboard that would simplify the task for everyone to be more professional in the decisions to be made. In any case, this would encourage the population to adhere to the measures taken. You often talk about cars to get a concrete picture of the situation. As far as I'm concerned, I'll talk to you about football. In this sport, there is a coach with players who make up a team, and around there are supporters. Goals must be set. There must be a commitment to the collective effort to achieve the desired results and to gain the support and approval of spectators and supporters. Actually, you're the coach. I am counting on you to ensure that with this scoreboard, you will be able, in consultation with all the participants in the Codeco, on the basis of scientific studies and recommendations, but by ensuring that everyone has the means to implement the measures taken, which is not always the case. I'm talking about experience here!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u79	Minister, thank you for your answers – in any case, for the answers I have been able to get. You explain that the decision-making process surrounding health measures is frustrating for you. It is even more so for GEMS experts, since the day after the last Codeco, Mrs Vlieghe explained how frustrating it is to see that, I quote, "it is apparently not possible to have a coherent and effective management of epidemics in our country". And then, it is even more frustrating for Parliament, which is set aside, even more so since the pandemic law. Beyond the debate on the epidemic emergency, the government has the freedom to take health measures. We're trying to have a debate with you after all. But it must be noted that we have very few answers to this decision-making process. In Britain, at least, there is a parliamentary debate on health measures with votes. With respect to your disaggregation bill, you are talking a lot about it, but there is still nothing on Parliament's table. Regarding wearing the mask for children, you're talking about "scientific evidence". It must be noted, in any case for young children of 6 years of age, that the opinions are not so unanimous as that. Experts are more than divided on this issue, in particular on the proportionality of this measure, when we know that ventilation is now a barrier in its own right in schools and classrooms. On the other hand, you have still not answered my question about hypocrisy as to the situation in which the Horeca and the world of the night are in, in relation to these clandestine festivals, which are not subject to any health rules. It is now time to harmonise the measures, to make them understandable. The latest interuniversity motivation barometer, which has just come out, concludes that confidence in policy for managing the epidemic decreases as the fourth wave develops, including among vaccinated people. On the CST+, too, I don't know if it was ever evaluated, before it was finally decided to remove it. Will this CST+ ever return to the Codeco measures? We still don't know. Besides, I think it is important to support sectors in the control of the CST, to communicate more, also, on the consequences of fraud by those people who use fake CSTs, on contamination, on hospitalizations. We hear a lot about the accountability of citizens with regard to measures. In my view, they must also be held accountable for the usefulness of this CST for the situation in our hospitals. This is a subject for which I have received absolutely no answer. I'd like to regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u80	When I sum it up, there's not really a strategy for the omikron variant, but that wave is coming. How bad it's gonna get, we'll see. You are going to vaccinate, there are mouth masks and a lot of activities are closed and will remain closed. That's the bottom line. You have not said a word about adjusting the test strategy, adjusting the tracing strategy or adjusting the quarantine measures. How do we deal with a more contagious form? Shouldn't we draw conclusions from that? Shouldn't we start testing faster after high-risk contact, for example? Shouldn't we make sure that people in quarantine get 100 percent of their pay? Shouldn't we change the contact tracing? What contacts are asked? The initial schedule is still in place. People are asked who they saw two days before. That is what it is all about, when we should go to cluster control. How do we deal with a more contagious form? Shouldn't we draw conclusions from that? Shouldn't we start testing faster after high-risk contact, for example? Shouldn't we make sure that people in quarantine get 100 percent of their pay? Shouldn't we change the contact tracing? What contacts are asked? One still maintains the initial schedule, one asks people who they saw two days before. That is what it is all about, when we should go to cluster control. I also stay hungry when it comes to the kids and the schools. You say that the schools can also be used for vaccination, but you already know that vaccination is not the only solution. Vaccinating reduces the number of sick people, but transmission remains possible after several months. Then why wouldn't it be with the vaccine for children? The problem is the transmission in children. How will we ensure a more efficient approach to contamination in schools? How will the CLBs be supported in their work? I am thinking, for example, of a preventive test policy with saliva testing. Studies have already been carried out on this subject. It is said that logistics is too difficult, but I think today is really time to use more efficient turbo-powered measures. Minister, I am not at all reassured by the lack of a plan to deal with the omikron wave.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u81	Mr Minister, two different types of care programmes were previously decided on: acute stroke care in S1 centres and acute stroke care with invasive procedures in S2 centres. The Royal Decree of 16 December 2018 sets the number of S2 centres across the country at 15, while the Protocol Agreement of 25 March 2019 determines the geographical distribution of the centres, while the concept of the so-called golden hour remains feasible. It is up to the regions to recognise the centres, but apparently this is still blocked at federal level, because programming would not be in order. How come the programming isn't quite on track yet? How many hospitals today meet the conditions to be recognised as S1 or S2 centres? How are they geographically divided?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u82	Are you planning consultations with the Länder in order to be able to implement the federal programming and give them the opportunity to recognise the centres on the ground? What exactly does recognition mean for hospital funding? I'm assuming an approved hospital with a stroke center will also receive additional resources. Is that right? Could you shed some light on that? Do you have an overview of the average driving times for a stroke patient in the different hospitals today, especially in the light of the concept of golden hour? Is that gonna be made enough? Do you have percentages in that regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u83	Mrs Farih, the responsibility for the recognition of the S1 and S2 centres lies with the Länder. No S2 centres have been approved today. The Brussels government has approved 4 S1 centres, the German-speaking Community 2. However, the further procedure of the S2 centres is hampered by an application for annulment by three hospitals to the Council of State of the Royal Decree of 20 October 2019 amending the Royal Decree of 16 December 2018 setting the maximum number of specialised care programmes for acute stroke care with invasive procedures. As a result of that application for annulment, the Länder do not take any further steps in the recognition process. The Flemish and Walloon authorities have also indicated that they are waiting for recognition of the S1 centres, before continuing with the recognition of the S2 centres, so that the entire landscape can be properly mapped. Since the Länder are responsible for the approval and approval standards of the centres, we do not have a complete view of the number of hospitals that are today sufficient to be recognised as an S1 or S2 centre, nor of its geographical distribution. My policy cell, together with the administrations, is currently in talks with the recognised authorities to take action pending the decision of the Council of State. The Belgian Stroke Council is also involved. An optimally organized stroke care, in order to ensure the quality of care for the patients, is a common goal of all of us. However, the figures show that we can and must make further progress in this area. Belgium scores below par in international rankings with regard to stroke care mortality. A pooling of expertise on invasive trombectomies is one of the means to achieve this. The current programming of the S2 centres is based on scientific insights prepared by the Belgian Stroke Council. It states that only 5 to 7.5% of the total number of ischaemic strokes per year benefit from invasive treatment through a thrombectomy. The Belgian Stroke Council and also international scientific literature indicate that a better outcome is demonstrated in hospitals that treat higher volumes for specific surgical and medical conditions. The same applies to ischaemic strokes. On this basis, the Belgian Stroke Council stated that each S2 centre should implement a minimum of 60, and preferably 100 trombectomies per year in order to maintain the necessary expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u84	On this basis they reached 12 to 15 centers for the whole empire. The Belgian Stroke Council recently confirmed to me that there are no new scientific insights that would require a revision of the programming figure of 15, nor has there been an exponential increase in the number of procedures. I am convinced that scientific evidence must guide the policy and I therefore agree with that view. To your question about acute stroke care in hospitals today and in particular the average driving time for a stroke patient, I cannot give you an answer. I don't have that information at my disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u85	The figures show that progress is needed. There needs to be an optimized, organized stroke care. We need a better outcome for the hospitals. I did not hear directly whether we could find solutions quickly. I understand there's a request for annulment from the CFI. How soon can we offer a solution? As long as programming is not in order, the Länder will not be able to approve the centres. Do hospitals receiving recognition for a stroke centre benefit from their hospital funding or are they merely a recognition and a title? I haven't had an answer to that either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u86	If there is no recognition, there can be no centre, nor can that activity be financed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u87	As long as there is no programming, there is no recognition and there is no funding. You have clearly stated that there must be more optimal organised stroke care. The fact that it has been 2.5 years to get the programming in order and she is still not on the right track does disappoint me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u88	I agree. It's disappointing, but we live in a state of law. We're bumping into justice. I am also trying to encourage my colleagues to progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u89	I'm counting on it, and I'll be sure to follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u90	Minister, I have asked you this question many times, because this was problematic from the outset. When the cameras are running you give applause for the care sector and when it comes to words, you are there as the chickens to promise all kinds of things. However, when it comes to actions, what really matters to the care staff on the ground, they are systematically absent. With regard to this dossier, too, the reimbursement of the additional costs for protection equipment for corona, care staff should systematically wait for the payment of the premium promised by your government. It started with the first disc that had been delayed. This question has been going on for months and we keep coming back to it. I know that you are annoyed when we ask questions again, but we are obliged to do so if no solutions are to be found. You mentioned it this morning, and I thought you'd come up with a solution, but no. Time after time, it's the same problem. This morning, you limited yourself to saying that you are very bored with the problem and that you are now working on a solution which you apparently could not give, but that you cannot give details. I don't understand. How can there be such a blunder over and over again, and then just with the care staff? I think it is totally inappropriate that you keep saying that you will do a lot for them, but then leave them in the cold. It concerns both the care staff in hospitals and in home care and the special professional qualifications, i.e. people who were particularly qualified. If you ever bother to come to Parliament, you always promise solutions and say that it will be all right. You are very annoyed by the opposition and by enlargement. You regret that we are asking questions, but we should not do that if you were to do your homework and put everything in order for the care staff. I hope that you can turn your 'I am bored with it and I cannot give details' this morning into a statement on how this delay in the payment of the premium for protective equipment could re-emerge. What exactly will you do to avoid this in the future, to be able to give details and to reassure the care staff that it will be all right now? I would particularly like to know what you are going to do to ensure that this blunder does not happen again in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u91	I will repeat what I said this morning, we are lagging behind in the payment of the premium for the period from December 2020 to the end of June 2021. I think the details are clear and well-known. The Royal Decree regulating intervention for that period is ready for publication after a recent opinion of the Council of State. As soon as I know when the KB will be published, the RIZIV will also inform the healthcare providers. In the Insurance Committee, the lead official of the RIZIV, who follows this file, said that this means that payments will be made by the end of February. I have perhaps repeated my words a little more clearly this morning. This morning I also said that I asked the government to be able to organise an analogue but not the same type of intervention for the months behind us and for the first quarter of 2022. I hope that the payment will be made more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u92	Thank you, Minister, for repeating your answer this morning, but, as I said, it really does not reassure me if you say that you are bored with it and that you hope that it will be all right now. You are the minister responsible, you are the guardian of our care staff, but once again I have to say that this is only in words and that action is always lacking. Our trust in this area is really gone and I believe that this is also the case with the care staff on the ground. There is an urgent need to compensate for this delay in payment. It's easy for us to talk here. It's our paycheck. However, care workers have to advance each time, payments are lagging behind and costs are rising. It shows a total lack of respect for the care staff when you make that mistake over and over again and then come to Parliament with the dry explanation that there is a delay. You should simply ensure that there is no delay and that you provide care staff with all possible framework to ensure (unintelligible).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u93	Mrs. Van Camp, you're breaking up. We haven't been able to hear the last 20 seconds of your reply. Could you repeat the last part of your reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u94	Madam President, I said that I find it extremely disappointing that all kinds of things are being promised to the care staff, but nothing is going to happen. It is easy for you, Minister, to speak as a minister, because you are paid your wages anyway, just like we Members of Parliament. We must ensure that the care staff can carry out their work under the best possible conditions, in the current difficult circumstances and with all the challenges they face today. [[(noise falls away]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u95	Mrs Van Camp, once again we have not heard the last part of your reply. In the meantime, your speaking time has also expired. The essence of your message is quite clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u96	Madam President, Minister, in mid-October, CureVac pulled the plug on his request to access the European market for his vaccine. As a result, 400 million doses of vaccine were not delivered to the EU, of which 2.9 million doses were delivered to our country. I have a number of questions about this, which have already been a bit besieged. They date from mid-October. They're basically obvious questions. When did you start taking this scenario into account? Has it affected the vaccination strategy? If I may, Minister, I would like to add two more fresh questions. As you may know, CureVac is working with GSK on a vaccine for corona. That would be combined with a vaccine for the flu. Is such a combined vaccine something you take into account for the future? Do you follow that? It's a combo vaccine, I'll call it. Do you see that there are opportunities for the future, in the context of a broad vaccination strategy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u97	Mr President, Mr Creyelman, your question was about CureVac. I can answer that very briefly. CureVac's decision has no impact on the Belgian vaccination campaign. Future deliveries cover the needs of the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u98	Minister, it seems to me to be a very good thing that it has not had any impact on the broader vaccination strategy. This undoubtedly has to do with the fact that people have not been betting on one horse. I expected that answer, but I will answer in your place. In the topical debate just now, you said that you had placed an order for Pfizer's modified vaccine. As a result, vaccines developed like those of CureVac and GSK, which combine two vaccines, one against covid and one against flu, seem to me to be interesting. Firstly, they seem interesting to me because they can relieve some of our concerns. Secondly, there may also be an armed peace between you and Mrs Depoorter so that you may be able to sit at the table together in the future without biting each other's throats.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u99	Minister, this question has been pending for some time. During the covid pandemic, we saw a lot of developments in the medical field, including in the laboratories. The private, but above all the hospital laboratories, have started to do molecular diagnostics on a large scale, while they were not necessarily used before; think of the PCR tests that have been carried out in full. In this way, we believe that the private and hospital labs have proven that without BELAC accreditation it is possible to deliver a good quality of medicine. Hospital and other laboratories are subjected to heavy checks, first and foremost by Sciensano. We hear in the field that these controls are carried out in a good, scientific and constructive manner. That is why we can ask ourselves whether this BELAC accreditation is still necessary and whether that cannot be taken over by Sciensano. Moreover, there are complaints about BELAC accreditation in the field, including that the preparations are very expensive, that the auditors are not benchmarked and that there would be little room for scientific discussion. In addition, recent concerns have arisen that the transposition of the European Directive on in vitro diagnostics will also require the FAGG to carry out certain lab checks. We are therefore wondering whether these checks on in vitro diagnostics could not possibly be transferred to Sciensano, which has a lot of ground experience. In addition, we wonder if it would be possible to delete the BELAC accreditation. There can be considerable cost savings while maintaining quality if the checks were taken over by Sciensano, which, besides paper audits and external quality checks, also makes site visits.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u100	Madam President, Mrs Gijbels, on the competence of the FAGG for in vitro diagnostic medical devices, I can tell you that there is some concern among the operators of certain laboratories, which is primarily related to the European Regulation 2017/746 on in vitro diagnostic medical devices, which will enter into force on 26 May 2022. That is exactly one year after the entry into force of the Regulation 2017/745 on medical devices, for which the FAGG is also competent. Mrs Gijbels, I must point out that for several years the FAGG has been the competent public body for in vitro diagnostic medical devices. The justification why the transfer of competence was decided in 2013 and completed in 2017 consists of the grouping of expertise, the preparation and subsequent publication of the very similar new regulations for medical devices and medical devices for in vitro diagnostics, the link with medicines, including through company diagnostics, the creation of a single point of entry for all medical devices and equal treatment for all medical aid actors. The decision was supported by stakeholders. In the meantime, the FAGG has further developed its expertise on the IVDs, including through the acquisition of and cooperation with Sciensano staff. Meanwhile, FAGG has been a very active member of all the European Commission's working groups for several years, covering in vitro diagnostic medical devices. For example, the FAGG is even the chairman of the working group specifically addressing the in-house problem. It would therefore be absolutely counterproductive to bring the power for in vitro diagnostic devices back to Sciensano in part or in full. Furthermore, the inspections carried out by Sciensano, BELAC and the FAGG focus on various aspects of the laboratory operation. Inspections carried out by the FAGG under the IVDR do not concern inspections of general laboratory activity, but specific inspections concerning the production and use of in vitro diagnostic medical devices. In reply to your second question whether I agree with the idea of deleting the BELAC accreditation for testing and that is more, I note that Sciensano has the task of recognising the clinical biology and pathological anatomy laboratories for performance that meets the quality requirements imposed by the royal decisions on recognition, i.e. by the clinical biology and pathological anatomy committees. BELAC, on the other hand, is an independent body within the FPS Economy. The accreditation shall be granted by BELAC after an audit which shall verify the conformity of the laboratory in accordance with internationally recognised requirements. This is therefore a formal demonstration of the laboratory's ability to carry out specific conformity assessments. The RIZIV has decided, in consultation with the Technical Medical Council, to make the reimbursement of specific benefits subject to its accreditation by BELAC. These performances are molecular biological performance as referred to in Articles 24a, 32, 33a and 33b of the nomenclature. The cooperation is reflected in the preparation of internal documents for the auditors of BELAC and in the training of the latter in certain areas specific to Belgian legislation. Sciensano also represents the competent authority for the ISO 15189 standard within the BELAC office. This allows Sciensano to actively contribute to the evaluation of accreditation files of medical laboratories. To date, no initiative is planned to abolish ISO 15189 accreditation for specific items in the nomenclature. Abolition of the accreditation obligation would result in a loss of harmonisation and international recognition of quality for Belgian medical laboratories.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic639x.u101	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. There will indeed be a lot of bodies involved. The FAGG was already partly competent, but checks are likely to increase. That must be looked at critically. It's not because it's true now that nothing can be changed or improved. Certainly such an overload of controls is not always conducive to the quality and cost of medical care. The progress that is made in molecular biology and the technology that comes with it also allows for some relaxation. Quality could also be guaranteed in a different, simpler way.
